ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6335	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to do the 69. Open the meeting of the National Council and welcome you, the journalists and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 67. The meeting and the official minutes of the 68th session. Meeting of 26. November 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. As prevented are reported today the MEPs Kira Grünberg, Mag. Maria Smodics-Neumann, Nurten Yılmaz, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Herbert Kickl, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzicund Mag. Nina Tomaselli. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6387	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office made the following communication on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is Deputy Minister for Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport Mag. Werner Kogler and Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Power. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck. I may announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m., as usual, and will be transferred from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and will be transmitted to the TV library. [[09:06:17]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6440	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Why risk You are a generation ‘Corona’, Mr. Bundeskanzler?’ First of all, Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been mentioned. I can warmly welcome Mr Kogler and Mrs Federal Minister Edtstadler. Please, Mrs. Meinl-Risinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6475	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor – present here today in the representative of the Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Love all those who watch us today! For the current hour, we have today chosen the title “Why do you risk a generation,Corona”, Mr. Federal Chancellor?” – and yes, so we look not only at the present situation, but very deeply into the challenges, into the tasks in 2021, because one thing is very important to us: Especially in the event of such a crisis, it does not help to address the current challenges only from day to day, in view, but it is important to look at people with a perspective into the future and look forward to what challenges, what massive challenges we face our country, our society. Why are we doing that? – Well, Austria managed the second corona wave very badly in autumn in international comparison. The number of dead has now reached a really sad record level, and it continues to rise – regrettably – when you look at the number of people infected in higher age groups when you look at the number of people infected in old and nursing homes. So this government has not been able to protect those people who are exposed to the greatest risk of serious illness, the greatest risk of hospitalization, as that is, treatment in the hospital, but above all intensive medical care, and also the greatest risk of fatality in old and nursing homes. At the same time, the economy in Austria is breaking up in a dramatic way. The OECD sees Austria, considering the year 2020 and the forecasts for 2021 and 2022, in second place behind Portugal in terms of recovery. So we are really bad there – in terms of health numbers, in terms of death rates, but also in terms of economy and unemployment. There is an increasing number of unemployed people; and new jobs, new jobs, upswing, confidence that all is not in sight with your policies. I know I've heard this many times now. For the government and the government parties, the other ones are always to blame. Hell, these are the others, we know that from literature. These are the people in Austria who are at risk, the citizens, that is the opposition, these are the federal states, these are the boys who have made some sort of disproportionate party. Let us now look together into the future! In 2021, we will hopefully have overcome the health aspect of the crisis, thanks to a vaccination that will be widely available and that will also really work and provide protection. Other remains a society that may even know single winners: Many people who are not affected by a secure job in the state environment, i.e. federal staff, national staff, but also in parts of the private sector, and also people who are in retirement, will have no income loss and no dramatic loss of opportunity. But it will also be a society that will know massive losers: The unemployed, the self-employed, and many, many young people. Once more – you already know this from us NEOS, we say it since March – we urge a balance in the fight against crisis, even for 2021, when we are on our way out of the crisis. Health, society, education, social affairs and the economy – all this must be in the perspective of political decisions. But we also demand a balance with regard to those who are particularly hard hit by the crisis. These are currently old people in nursing and old homes who do not protect you enough. These are young people in the future who will rob you of opportunities, prospects and futures. The crisis hits the young generation twice: at present and directly as regards their lives as regards their education as regards access to a teaching centre, which may be the chance of getting a first job in working life. She meets the students who are just beginning the first semester and in distance school. It meets young people who have no social contacts at a time when this is so important for personal development. It meets the young people who had planned a semester abroad and could not do so. It meets the young people who are among the losers of education who could not be reached in the time of home schooling. It is precisely the ones who already have massive difficulties in starting up and which policy should actually ensure equal opportunities. It meets young self-employed people who do not receive orders; this is a dramatic situation at the very beginning of self-employment, when you approach the matter with hope and confidence. She meets young people who are already unemployed because a new job is currently de facto impossible. We must therefore act urgently in the interests of our children, in the interests of the young – and we must really be active! – to address reforms, to secure the labour market for young people, to secure teaching facilities, to safeguard educational opportunities, and, above all, to address the social impact of the Corona crisis on these young people. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, this too is a marathon and not a sprint – like the Corona fight – with a press conference and a headline you do not get through. But the good thing is: Proposals are on the table. Proposals from us, including from other political groups, are on the table, and what we are now expecting is a plan and a strategy, which is a strategy that does not lead to the fact that we once have to say that we have a lost generation, a generation of Corona. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the alarm bells are ringing – what you see when you look at education, how many children and young people have not been reached there, how chances have been robbed and what this can mean for their further life course; when you look at labour market data: 38 000 young people are without work, tending to rise, a 26 percent increase compared to the previous year, and 8 000 more young people. Or: Teachers' market. As of September, the number of open apprenticeships fell by 19.4 percent compared to the previous year. There are 7 600 teaching places on 10 500 job seekers. How to say so beautifully: That's not going to work out. This has an impact on the employment biography, which is dramatic and long-term. In addition, your policy of the cost-es-what-es-will of the debt backpack is getting bigger and bigger. That means that our children will have to bathe out at one time. On the other hand, when it comes to ensuring sustainable social networks for these boys, we must admit that we are already spending EUR 24 billion on pensions this year, because our contribution system is not enough to ensure this for our young people. We have to fight against this urgently. This crisis has shown where we need reform everywhere. Turn on little screws and give press conferences that cost a lot of PR money – a lot of PR money you can get back to! – that may have been so far. That's enough in good weather times, but not in times of crisis. We must now take seriously the reforms for young people, for the good future of our country, and for these reforms we need a broad basis. I therefore call for a future Convention, based on the Constitutional Convention, which unfortunately never really came into force in many areas. Let's go – from Parliament – a future convention! Let us devote ourselves to the questions of the opportunities of the future, of innovation, of the prosperity of the future, but of course also to the questions of federalism, because we simply cannot afford to reject ourselves, to present press conferences and headlines and to rob the young people of the future. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So we're shredding the sleeves – that's my proposal – we're picking up for 2021, we're putting the year 2021 under the motto: Confidence and future. The crisis and the opportunities of young people are at the heart of the crisis – this crisis is enough to finally do so – so that we can confidently go forward into an innovative future that offers all people opportunities for prosperity. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6565	Mr Werner Kogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6586	Mr President. Honourable Members! First of all, it is certainly right that the young generation is particularly affected by the effects of this corona pandemic – I would point this out immediately. Secondly, we should not, however, act as if similar problems were not in many countries and similar measures are also being taken. I am only saying this by the way, because in my view, in recent times, the debate threatens, so to speak, to get out of the lot. I am very happy to respond to what has been proposed here, but I do not know – I say it in advance – whether a convention for the urgency of the problems we have is the optimal instrument. I am very open here, and I would suggest that we discuss these various measures, which are intended to be positive for the young, at the parliamentary level in the specialist committees, but also in political discussions. Why don't we start with round tables once this has been missed so far – I would be very, very important – to involve all the political groups? I'm saying that so that it's just one time from the order. The fate of the Constitutional Convention scares me a little bit. I have been following with attention what the Neos Club lady said in the press hour. There were, by the way, many very good suggestions that had no place here in the 10 minutes. I would like to expressly acknowledge that. A Constitutional Convention is, however, especially in Austria, I believe, not well-informed; well meant – and you know the fate of well meant. I also do not know whether the pressing and urgent – I believe we have more agreement than many suspect – can be solved in this short term, so that all this goes out for the young generation, which should now be in the foreground at least under the title of this current hour. First, summarized: Yes, the topic is important, it's set correctly, it's something to do, but now you have to put it in order properly. Worldwide, this pandemic has triggered an economic crisis, followed – logically – by an employment crisis, and yes, there is also a certain asymmetry in the field of education, training and the situation of young people. That is why we have to oppose this, and that is why, at the beginning of 2021 – and I would agree – a catalogue of measures is to be further deepened, leading to a comeback year not only for the economy and the labour market, but also for the education and opportunities of the young 2021. I am very confident that this can succeed – especially under the conditions we have in Austria. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, you can also create international comparisons, but I would then go there once where people, in the case of the boys, really concern in life. Yes, there are different key figures and forecasts. I suggest: Let us look at this retroactively after a year, both with regard to the fight against the health crisis and with regard to the labour market and the economy! But now I can say where it really concerns people: Yes, it's tragic that it's almost 100,000 unemployed more corona due to it, but in international comparison we're safe with unemployment in Austria at the best. – This is just so that this is also said, I do not want to question the OECD forecast mentioned here. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It will make sense – I know that this argument has already been exposed to the attempt of perforation – and it can already be said that in countries – there are not very many – who have a similar share of tourism – in Austria it is more than 15 percent – of course there is a special impact on the economy, where you have to invest quickly; that is clear. – I'll be right there, that'll help the boys too. However, these economic figures should take account of the respective economic structure, which would be the command of seriality. For the official key figures, it is good that we have always ridden tourism like this – you know that the Greens are not necessarily the champions of economic growth of any kind now, but when it comes to these naked figures, how prosperity is being measured right now, it was and is, of course, a very, very important contribution. In the future, it will be good if we look at the economy with a slightly more differentiated approach to the concept of tourism perhaps there or there a little different, then this impact will not be so strong either. But now it is! And what I really don't understand is that we're firing jubilant songs every year, how great all this is – and then there's this impact, and then all of a sudden it's bad. So we have to analyse things with a certain amount of expertise and also with optimism for the next year first and then introduce the appropriate measures. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] And yes, I don't look at – maybe a couple of young people watch the transmission – to stand up or to confess or to understand how difficult it must be now – this is understandable to me when I think of the time when I was 16, 17, 20, 21 years old – that everything can't happen as it is otherwise. Mrs. Klubobfrau has listed many things – education, training, ultimately university and so on, but also normal life – which makes up the youth: others meet, travel, celebrate, everything that belongs to it. Yes, this is severely restricted, and therefore thanks to all those who also participate in the protection of others. This must also be expressed to the boys. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This “look at you, look at me ” can also be a generation question. It's not all boys, it's just like the middle-aged people or the older ones who stick to everything or try to make a contribution – I don't want to talk about it at all –, they're not all, otherwise we won't be there as we stand – that's already a role – but there are many, and thanks to them. Look at you! – The boys look at the old people when we try to get through with them for a few more months now. The order and the slogan are now: keep up and keep together! – This is perfectly logical, and I think that applies to everyone in here. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But I would like to go into a few areas which, as I believe, are very essential: At schools in particular, NEOS have proposals again and again, and I follow with attention what is going on in the media with regard to what the new Education City Council in Vienna has to say. I have not yet been able to talk to him, but it is also our concern to have a good relationship. It's a new coalition that hasn't existed yet. However, I take away from the media that there are some initiatives that also build on what the Federal Government and the Minister for Education are proposing. I have discussed it with this one more time so that I do not go unprepared here in a discussion. So I'll get together. In schools, of course, it is understandable that one wants to keep this open for as long as possible – for all, in all years, regular business. They know very well that there are different - already coming from science - approaches to the infection in schools. If all of this were so clear that nothing exactly happens there, then everything would be quite easy. But is it so easy? Should we make it so easy? We have not been elected to make it easy for us. These are always difficult questions of consideration, that is perfectly logical! Yes, there is a smaller – let's understand – infection in schools; okay! They are not the big drivers – quote education ministers. In view of the fact that well over one million people in Austria come into contact in the school sector, much less numbers are also a problem, even in the pandemic. It's just that, I don't want to know. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] But you know very well that I personally believe that the schools should be left open as possible. There has been no bad solution either, but one, as I mean, good solution, as often in compromise. We changed the business to home schooling for two and a half weeks, but unlike in spring, because the schools were open to all those who need it, and those who need it have been defined much more than before. I think the result can be seen. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] However, it is absolutely right that for the future everything must be done to ensure that schools are always at the front when it comes to the need to relax in the sense that as many areas of life – yes, a field of education is also a field of life – are to be kept open. We would agree, but there is still a question of consideration. I hope that the measures that are now being put in place will also be so good for the future that we can work on at least the current level in schools, even more so, the fifth, sixth and seventh classes too. What will it need to do? – The tests, that is, partial sections of these mass testing programmes – I think we agree, Mrs Klubobfrau, at least I understood you in the press hours – can play a role in this. [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: You have to play a role! ...!]] That is why it would be good if we came to regular testing stages with teachers – this is not a bad conclusion as regards the whole school business and perhaps even the population. Whether the pupils are always successful is another question. This is in preparation, but logistically not so easy, as it will need support. The Minister for Education is behind this, because it is so important. Teachers regularly to test, that is not a small task either, but we should do that. This will help the schools to continue to work in the future with a special status. Speaking of the future: There are a number of initiatives that take into account exactly the situation there would be: to strengthen the teaching units in particular for the final classes or matura classes, and in addition, as well as for those who need special support. It is clear to us, of course, that in such a situation, in such a school business, those who already have it more difficult stay behind even faster and the education gap. This is not new, it is clear in such a situation, but that is why the countermeasures have been taken exactly there. And there are also appropriate initiatives. I cannot list all those who exist, but I would like to highlight one particular point, also because I have the impression that there is also the Council of Education Return is exactly in the track: These are the learning cafes that are cared for by others. This is a good initiative, among which you can imagine something. It's now being rolled out more strongly. Of course, such initiatives can go well, even into the next year. However, I should like to draw your attention to another goal regarding young people's opportunities for education and employment, and to all the measures that will bring a great deal, very much. It surprises me that this never happened, but we must not forget that despite – I say: despite! – this health crisis and the economic and employment crisis, which necessarily follows, have a really much worse crisis for generations behind it. Now we may be talking about years – I don't want to talk small – but the climate crisis is a crisis that will meet us very differently, and I think it is important to counter it in Austria, in Europe, so that the continent can make a contribution. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Can you do nothing without crises? You're crises...!]] That's exactly what it's all about, and now things are running together, so to speak, just as it belongs. There are major problems in the labour market and we have agreed to invest ourselves out of the crisis. In the field of climate protection investments, much more has been achieved than everyone expected. It's no longer a climate billion that has always been demanded, it's a lot of climate billions for the next few years – many! There is now no time to carry out all this, I just want to think about it from the global approach. If you're worried about the debt, I have to say, It is logical, however, that it is first of all about the need to absorb money, and the only relevant question is just as it is in a farm: Where's the money going? – That’s investment – and that’s right. There are job opportunities, no, not only opportunities, but also corresponding jobs. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It is only with the eco-programmes which are now being set up that is about a thousand people, and if you think about a legislative period, that is more than 100 000 jobs. That's not what we're going to pull out somewhere, but it's well-founded, that's what the economic research institutes say. This is what I consider to be at least so important when it comes to the next generation, because it knows – you know, when you talk to the boys about the corresponding initiatives – because the boys know that they are the first generation to feel the effects of this climate crisis, but probably the last one that can do anything about it, and that drives them on and that's good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's where innovation comes in, and that's what I appreciate about the boys. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We can't just appear here as depression spreaders. That's what it's supposed to be, because they're really creative. In the rankings of the best arguments, when it comes to innovation, it's best for the boys – maybe you've already heard it, then forgive me for saying this – they say: Yes, these are the chances. We can't mess out any carbon that's muddy somewhere in the oil or in the coal. The Stone Age did not end either because people had gone out of the stones. – This is an approach, with this creativity you have to go in, and so they are on it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with Greens and ÖVP.]] That's why they also deserve appropriate lawyers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] If you address the social question and the pensions, then allow me to say the following: I prefer to be in the Community of several political groups and I do not depend on Mr Loacker's proposals when it comes to pensions. Sorry, that must be said. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It will always be about what the money is spent on. In conclusion, because you have referred to the social field, I should like to mention what has been done, because it is something that is going on – we may have different views on social policy here, I cannot go into all of this, that is not the task of the members of the Federal Government, but I would ask, and this concerns several political groups, to note that there is now a social security package, yes, because of the crisis; if otherwise we would not have done it all anyway, but I would ask you to take note of what is going on! –: Education bonus, that's exactly what it's about: EUR 180 per month in the field of education and training; Apprenticeship bonus 3 000 plus 1 000 euros, if it is a small business – many have taken advantage of it. – Maybe we should send you the numbers more often, yes, maybe this is a deficit, and I mean that without irony. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] But that's what I'm saying: Apprenticeship bonus, education bonus,additional: [[Abg. Belakovich: Rising unemployment rates! Rising Insolvency!]] Child bonus of 360 Euro, 360 Euro per child. - That's nothing! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] If you want to kill the unemployment benefit and the increase constantly, I'll tell you in this direction, too: 900 euros are not for someone who has a low unemployment benefit! How removed is this argument?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] All of this helps the boys too! – And if it was claimed here that there would have been no income tax and no wage tax reduction, then I will reject it in conclusion, because this argument is equally insidious, because it is totally inconceivable. Of course, this has happened and of course it also helps the boys in the families if these social security packages are successful. We have even gone so far that, due to the difficulty of the Austrian tax system, we have still favoured those who do not pay any taxes because they deserve so little. So you have to go into social security. That's what we did. This package, when completely rolled out, amounts to up to EUR 2 billion, which is only in this area of tax and tax reduction. Well, please. All get to the ground and work together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6779	Mrs Plakolm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e6801	Mr President. Good morning, dear members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The last months, almost the whole year 2020, were a huge challenge for all generations, but especially for us young. [[Abg. Belakovich: Are you still a student?]] Youths are certainly among the great losers of this corona crisis, regardless of the country they live in. [[Call:The big losers of the government]] Continue and meet friends, class trips, maturabälle, semesters abroad, sponsors, weddings, many of them had to be cancelled this year and unfortunately, many things can not be reclaimed, this applies to a whole generation. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Because you have forbidden it!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: And who did it...?]] In the case of risk groups, we think mainly of elderly and mostly predisposed people, but those we rarely think of in the word risk groups are children and adolescents. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because?]] Although young people are hardly afraid of their physical health but probably of their mental health. This is also reflected in the democratic monitor, a youth survey of the Parliamentary Directorate, which was published this week, and this concern must be taken seriously. However, I am opposed to, ladies and gentlemen of NEOS, stamping a whole generation as loose. – Dear children and young people, you are absolutely not loose! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is the young people who are responsible for cohesion in our society, who have created great initiatives and who help to protect and above all support risk groups. [[Abg. Belakovich: Unlike the government, it did not bring it together!]] It is young people who are in use today and are keeping our country running – in civil service, in the federal army, as volunteers with the Blue Light organizations – and it is young people who are in bravouros' greatest crisis in the Second Republic. And that's why our society, our youth, has a perspective, a future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I've written quite a lot of young people in the last few weeks. They're so tired to read somewhere that they'd be loose. Yes, they have faced and faced challenges in recent months other than in the years before, but we also see the positive pages. Many young people, students and maturants write to me that they have learned so much more in these months – and all things that are not in the curriculum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I don't mean now that in the lockdown one learns the baking of banana bread, but structured and independent work on projects, on tasks, handling digital work tools, self-responsibility and much more. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, great!]] Parents write to me that they have done quite, quite a lot in the field of personal responsibility, household and the like. This is often too short in the classroom, and there was room for it now. [[Abg. Belakovich: What are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] I am absolutely no fan of always seeing problems and not contributing to the solution – this job I like to leave to the opposition – and that is why I see the opportunities. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] That is why I see opportunities for young people in these difficult months in particular: in the field of digitization, in the job, in the university, in the schools, at the common table with friends, which has now been transferred to the Internet. [[Abg. Belakovich: Which common table?]] Government action is absolutely correct in order to drive digitalisation, continue to invest in broadband development and finance it. [[Abg. Belakovich: So that's why we make a lockdown and close the schools! Are you serious about this?]] I also believe that Distancelearning and digital learning platforms are something that should accompany us after the pandemic. The student, who can attend lectures from home, who makes it easier to study under a hat and a family to have a job by the way; the student, who can repeat content independently to teach at home – and the Federal Government has set the right focus with the Digital School Plan, with his own digital schoolbook action. [[Abg. Belakovich: Beautiful!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Great!]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Unfathomable! Please think before you talk!]] Think of the modern working world, also in it are opportunities for the next generations: Home office, compatibility of family and profession, coworking spaces and the like. In March it was still unthinkable in many areas to work from home, now Homeoffice is no longer a foreign word, but a daily one for many people. Workers no longer have to travel to the central space every day, are in storage, can more flexibly apportion their time, and this also benefits families. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is a dangerous threat...!]] Corona has shown us where we need to catch up and what we learn from this crisis, but Corona has also shown us very clearly what opportunities lie in for the future. And only then, if we also allow progress, can we get out of the crisis better than other countries. Our country needs young motivated, creative, courageous people who make Austria an attractive location. Young people, you're absolutely not loose. You have a great future in front of you, which is now being designed and which you absolutely design. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, a word on the NEOS: When we talk about the future, we also need to talk about climate protection, as our vice chancellor has suggested. The Federal Government has set ambitious targets to produce 100 percent of the energy needed from renewable sources in 2030. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens. – MEPs of the ÖVP are detaching a transparent titled “No to red-pink nuclear power! YES for climate protection!’, the first part is written in red and the second part in turquoise color, and keep it in height.]] I had to smile a little bit when I read that the current hour of youth and future policy is just coming from NEOS. Apparently this was an attempt to get back here, because in Vienna there is absolutely no single fit inside in the punched government program.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7059	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7079	And this week a new facet has been added: The NEOS Chefin Meinl-Reisinger considers the rapid exit from nuclear energy to be an error. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't think nuclear energy's good, nobody else will.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7116	Please, ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7131	We don't want a generation of Corona and no generation of nuclear energy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7158	MEPs are speaking on behalf of Mr Rendi-Wagner. [[Abg. Scherak: Business treatment!]] I'm sorry, Mr. Scherak, I haven't seen this right now. – For business treatment, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7194	Mr President. I'd just like to ask you: Because otherwise, if transparency is rolled out somewhere, or if Taferls are kept up-to-date, ask you to take them down very quickly, it would be important to do so in your own parliamentary club and to react very quickly!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7218	Mr Scherak, that was not even 30 seconds, and last time I waited for 40 seconds. I reject the fact that I deal unevenly in any form! [[Congratulation and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with the Greens.]] I have every transparency – every transparency! – approved for at least 30 seconds. [[Call the SPÖ:Falsch! It's so unfair!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's it. Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7267	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Chancellor, I have listened well to you, and in fact I am not accustomed to what I have heard from you in the last 10 minutes, especially not to this pride and this arrogance which you bring to us, the House of Lords, by asking us to return to the ground. [[Call the ÖVP: Congratulation! Ha, ha!]] [[Consistency with SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Loacker]] I think, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that is not for you in this form either. Yes, if it is the ground of reality, then it is exactly where we as social democracy are daily. That's why I'm telling you: None of us have ever claimed that the Federal Government does nothing, but I also say that it is not enough that it does not meet the dimension of this crisis, that there is no plan behind it and that it is not correct. [[Abg. Sieber: Yes, yes, yes!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Corona crisis, and many things have already been said, demands us all. It demands all of us, in all areas of life, but some groups of our society demand it very much – these are the older people, these are the women, the single teachers and, yes, these are the boys, the young and the children. There are a million students who have just been at home for the second time for weeks, and tens of thousands of them were not accessible for school, for their teachers. Mr Vice-Kanzler, we already note that there is a scientific discussion about the potential for risk and risk of infection in schools, but one thing is clear: There should always have been a functioning safety concept in schools! It would have been necessary to think about it since the start of the school since September, and not only now after nine months of Corona crisis! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That would have been necessary, that is beyond doubt, and this opinion is by the way all the experts, on which there is no discussion. It is also young people who want to start a teaching that is finished with school, who could enter working life, but who do not find a job or a teaching place. It is young workers who started their career a few months before the crisis, a few years before the crisis, and who were the first to lose the job in this labour market crisis. Yes, they are all deprived of many of their chances by this crisis and partly by the mismanagement of the Federal Government. - That's the future. There are 40,000 young people who do not currently have a job, which is therefore 25 percent more than in the same period of the previous year. Germany has half the additional unemployed, therefore, Mr Vice-Chancellor, the international comparison. A whole generation threatens, if nothing is done, to land on the runway, because that is, in particular, the prospectlessness of young people. Long live like a heavy backpack – and that must not happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important to act decisively and decisively, with a plan of fair educational opportunities, training opportunities for young people – those opportunities that so shamelessly threaten this virus. The most important thing would be, and I will come back to doing everything possible to ensure that education becomes a safe teaching, not only on paper, but also in all schools in Austria. [[Abg. Steinacker:...! We're doing this! ... Directors in Austria!]] But let us finally prepare our schools for digital teaching, as it should be! Let's make a tablet or laptop available for each child! Let's finally get the schools out of the digital Stone Age! All day schools should finally be expanded according to the model of Vienna. That would be to do. A future convention – a year ago we talked about it, nothing happened in the meantime. The corona pandemic hasn't survived for a long time, we all know. It is important to do a lot together to prevent another lockdown. We need to keep the infection numbers under control, and mass tests are part of a strategy, a mosaic. And if after the public mass tests a lot is now spoken about repetitions and regular testing, then an approach would be to make regular voluntary self-tests at home in the living rooms. The possibilities are there, and I believe we cannot all afford to give up new opportunities in this crisis. In the coming months, let us courageously go new ways to avoid a lockdown in order to move forward safely together! We need that, we need our next generation, and I hope we'll pull a line there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7359	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7380	Mr President. Mrs. Edtstadler! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, we all listened well to you. I mean, you stand here, you swirl a bit of Stone Age, you knock spells here. That, and I give Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner quite right there, bears witness to haughtiness, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Mr Obernosterer and Mr Steinacker.]] You know what this is about?- Oh, my God! – It’s about the future of our children, it’s about whether our children receive education, whether our children can build their lives, it’s about having a social life that they can establish friendships that they can establish families, and it’s about cutting off the debt mountain from today. And you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, are standing here and talking about the future of our children, about us rolling some stones through the area and through time, and you say: Let's see! – That was the literal expression: Let's see! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the expression of pure helplessness. I am not throwing you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, nor your government, before you sent the entire population into quarantine in spring of this year, that the economy has come to realize that the social fabric has become completely out of the joints. What I'm gonna do to you. However, your statement, Mr Vice-Chancellor, is the fact that you obviously do not take this situation as seriously and see it as dramatic as it actually is. I also propose that you have not worked since March this year on a strategic solution to the problems, our problems. You are on a mistake with your government, and you are still sailing through the fog of the Corona pandemic without suitable map material, so to speak, without sextant. At the latest at the time of the first lockdown, by March at the latest, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you should have been working on it if you had started working on a long-term strategy to solve the problems. Instead, have She's always just reacting. You have promoted a ban culture, you have restricted fundamental and freedom rights and you have introduced a communication culture that goes behind closed doors and only as a one-way road from top to bottom. And this is the criticism I have of your approach. This is not crisis management, but it testifies on the one hand to helplessness, it testifies, just as Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has said, of pride, and on the other hand it is also a presumptuousness to hear opinions only when they are in your mind. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Our children, our young people have been in social and social isolation for almost ten months. This isolation poses the greatest danger to our youth: Education stop, loss of education, uncertainty, fears of the future. This autumn the Federal Chancellor, in spite of all the expert opinions, also opposed the opinion of the coalition partner, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, the schools for the second time de facto closed, the students who sent teachers to a distance learning; and that, although well known – and you have already said so today – is that the schools are not the drivers of infection. I think, as usual, that the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor has been postponed, just as he always does, if something goes wrong, just as he does today, Mr Vice-Chancellor, and the responsibility he should assume here today. As far as school closures are concerned, he simply poured out the child with the bath. The decision to close the schools de facto was wrong, it was a mistake. It represents a acidity in the lives of our children, presence lessons can never be replaced by distance learning. The resulting damage not only limits the level of education and the professional prospects of our children, but also constitutes a burden for our children, who press on their minds, souls and beings. The consequences, as we must unfortunately see, are profound, they are sustainable and they are dramatic, considering that only the proportion of children and young people who develop anxiety has more than quadrupled in the course of the crisis. The school closures as well as the mass tests have been the result of the decision-making power of the Federal Chancellor; and what was the result? – People have not understood it; logically, because where is the sense of closing the schools if there is not the big infection happening there. What is the meaning of people being tested in masses, even though they are healthy? What is the sense that the children must wear masks during the class? Why are no plexiglass walls used, like here? High house! This government spends billions of funding and compensation, some of it makes sense, some not, but I ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Where are the budgets for accompanying measures to ensure that the resulting damage from the school lockdown is kept as low as possible? It may - - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7441	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7456	- There are no lockdown losers among our children, no corona losers! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, give our children their courage again, give them their joy again and give them their confidence back, they deserve it, it's their future!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7483	Mr Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7505	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Estimated preliminary speakers, one can of course criticise the government, that is also legitimate, and mistakes have also happened indisputably. But this does not change the fact that we now have to do everything we can to combat the corona virus and to protect the health of our fellow citizens as best as possible. Dear NEOS! Nobody here, really nobody is risking a generation of Corona, and you know that! No one here is responsible for the corona pandemic! You're right: Yes, it is the task of politics to lead us out in the best possible way through the corona crisis and again. That's exactly why we are constantly putting off the biggest hardships – and beyond – for example – it has already been mentioned a lot – in the family sector with the increase of the Family Hard Fund or on the big topic of youth unemployment. We have put in place numerous measures to minimise youth unemployment in the context of the economic crisis, for example by increasing over-company jobs, short-term apprenticeship work or apprenticeship promotion. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are not only in the process of eliminating the greatest hardships, we are already thinking about the future. For example, remember the children's cost study, which is about the opportunities for the future, in order to achieve a new assessment of family benefits. The Corona crisis is not over, but at the same time our fight against child poverty has only begun. Because you keep talking about the school closures: Our position is clear, the schools were open and will always be open, and the opposite will not become more correct either by always claiming it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... closed!]] Of course, it would have been preferable for us to have something like a normal lesson, but unfortunately we are not living in any normal time. The educational shears have not been available since Corona, the educational shears have been around for decades. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We also need to put on early help before the school career begins at all. Another sentence on pensions: What I don't understand is that it is starting to play groups against each other here, because young people certainly don't have anything of it when their grandparents have to live in poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Generationnfairness is also not a one-way street. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Another sentence on the FPÖ – which I do not want to spend a lot of speaking time on it, but so much on it: [[Call the FPÖ:A mistake!]] FPÖ really recommends people not to be tested. [[Abg. Deimek: It's about years of fostered prejudices! You can't turn aside!]] The policy of the FPÖ regarding the corona pandemic can best be described with the impression on a cigarette box: You can do considerable damage to you and to the people around you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: You're a smoker yourself, Barbara!]] Clearly, we must now, whether young or old, go through this crisis together, with mutual respect, with mutual support, because this crisis has also shown us one thing: how important solidarity is in the crisis. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brügl and Mr Deimek.]] To conclude: Quite honestly, one cannot speak of a generation of Corona, because the corona pandemic will end in the foreseeable future, but what there will be no rapid vaccination for, that will be the generation climate crisis. [[Abg. Worm: Ah!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm painfully missing your contribution, dear NEOS. There will be no distance, no vaccination and no mask protection. Ladies and gentlemen! The climate crisis is about the basis of our children's lives, and even if the subject is now wrong: The policy we are making today will be the reality of tomorrow, and it will be the next generation, in particular, with full force even if only in the history books can be read about the Corona pandemic. That is why we do everything we can to combat the climate crisis at the same time. We are using time as a turning point and we are already setting up economic measures, because once again, ladies and gentlemen: The climate crisis is nothing less than the future of our children and our grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7647	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7669	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You said you didn't need my proposals, but now you're still required to listen to them. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Kogler.]] The boys are the great losers of this crisis, and you can't speak beautiful and not talk away. And yes, you can object that the people who died of Corona are on average over 80, but that is essentially a result of the failure of the government – because you have not protected this group well enough, we have so many dead among the particularly high-age people. [[We welcome the NEOS and Deimek and smoke Members.]] Others did it. There you could also look at your green party colleague for Tübingen, where you have specifically protected the old-age and care homes so that people in life can have more freedom. There are far less deaths there than in all other comparable cities. In the long term, the boys pay, and you're a bit right, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that's not entirely avoidable, but a bit far already. This government has decided to make policy the way it has made policy in Austria over the past 75 years, namely client policy. [[We welcome the NEOS and Deimek and smoke Members.]] To do this, you have to consider who the reliable voters and who are these groups of clients for which politics is being made. There are more voters over 70 than under 30, and so is the work here. It is a school year – Mr Brückl said it right before – because the operation was already de facto closed in the summer semester of 2020. Even if Mr Neßler is speaking beautifully for the time being: The fact that someone is allowed to come to school and is cared for there is not equivalent to teaching and learning. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This cannot replace a regular teaching, then you learn as much mathematics as an average greener does, but that's not enough for life. But the boys also pay for it.Where do they find an internship or a pruning post now, through which they can prove themselves for the later entry into the job? - No one's going to pick them up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber]] Where do you find a job after completing the school? – Every holding is usually happy now if one goes into retirement or if a woman goes to Karenz and you do not have to re-occupy the job because the economic prospects are so uncertain because this government stumbles from a lockdown in the next and the consequences are not even thought to end up the next or next week. Under these conditions, no new jobs can be created. Now you're saying, Well, there are only 100,000 unemployed anyway, the others have more! – Yes, Mom, the others also have a five! That's the access you have. [[We welcome the NEOS and Deimek and smoke Members.]] Did you look at how long-term unemployment, especially among young people, has increased? – In people under 35 years of age, long-term unemployment, i.e. unemployment, which lasts longer than six months, increased by 140 percent, and in people up to 24 years of age, by 800 percent. Your government makes politics at the expense of the boys, and you have to answer that. You don't need to get that there is an education bonus of 180 euros for the unemployed anyway – they don't need an education bonus that needs a job! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] They say: We have paid 360 euros for children's bonus! - Yes, without looking who needs it. All parents sitting here in Parliament have also received 360 euros per child. The officials who have fixed salaries have also received 360 euros per child. The children's bonus did not get those who need it, but you went with the casting pot to blindly distribute the money. That's what you've taken in debt, and that's what the boys pay for. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Unemployment would be much higher if it were not hidden. Young people who do not find a teaching place now go to a secondary school because nothing else remains for them. They do not appear in unemployment statistics. Young academics, who are now completed with the university and would like to take up a job, still have a Master's degree because they are forced to do so. They'd like to go to work, but they won't get a job. This is hidden unemployment that you don't see in your statistics. They say: Yeah, we're making debts, we're investing! – I ask: What kind of investment is this when I distribute the money with the pot? 360 euros for each child, including those parents who do not need it, a 3.5 percent pension increase – these are not investments. That means spending money without seeing who needs it. You have not only increased the compensation allowance for the needy, you have distributed 3.5 percent with the casting pot, while the workers in the metal industry, if they have a job at all, receive 1.45 percent. These are the ones who need to finance this. Who pays the hospitals in ten years? Who pays the pensions in ten years? Who pays the public service in ten years if the boys today do not receive training, no internships, no apprenticeships and no jobs after their studies? That's what you have to answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7790	Mr Marchetti is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7811	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I really believe all those who have spoken that they are seriously concerned about the generation of young people in this country, but I am sorry that we have to stress this in recent debates. They demand, for example, a future convention. I have considered this proposal and have come to the point that you are calling for an institution in which all political groups jointly discuss future issues, education, digitalisation and the Constitution. I thought that there was actually this, which is actually the original task of Parliament. We should perhaps really devote ourselves to this task more closely, instead of constantly changing only political change. [[Abg. Scherak: In the case of a government group that postpones everything, you should be careful a little!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] Let us talk about the important questions of the future! We are happy to be there because there is also Parliament for this reason. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Because of the fact that the debt goes at the expense of the next generations, I would like to say something about debt policy: Yes, I also belong to those who say a balanced budget is sustainable and important. Why is he that? – Because you work out spaces that you can use when you need them. As a convincing representative of this theory, I say: Now is the time to invest in this scope, because that is exactly the basis for economic growth, to create jobs for just that generation that you have spoken about. [[Abg. Scherak: Cast!]] This is not at the expense of this generation, but it is the basis for this generation to find opportunities, jobs and a good future in this country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scherak: 3.5 for luxury pensioners!]] That would have to be seen if we were to discuss it seriously. I now come to this seriousness: Dear NEOS and dear FPÖ, I still have an ear on how your factions have repeatedly demanded in recent months: testing, testing, testing! [[Call the NEOS:But good!]] Now we're testing all over the place. [[Abg. Hammerschmid: Yes, once!]] And what do I hear now? – Needless, you don't need it! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not like that!]] Don't go there, is a flop anyway! Although the tests in some federal states have not even begun, you already know that they are a flop. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have to test several times!]] They are active in demobilization. That's not responsible, I don't understand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Especially with the boys, we have mobilization problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] You could begin to fight against a generation of Corona by encouraging young people and convincing them that it makes sense to test so that we can get out of the crisis faster and have more opportunities. Col. Belakovich shot the bird by saying: No, don't go test because otherwise you might have to go to quarantine in Christmas holidays! It's translated: We want the freedom to infect our family, or how!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's something else from a doctor. This is so cynical that I really can only hope that young people don't watch and don't believe politics works that way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Now also a word about the NEOS: Mr Loacker is, I believe, one of the last liberals to remain NEOS. I don't understand this state-of-the-art belief you show. As if the Federal Government were responsible for everything and as if it could do everything on its own. That's not the reality. There is no refund for the lost hours that have not been able to be spent with family and friends in recent months. There is no such thing as politics. There is no all-inclusive help package that can reduce all anxiety. We, as representatives of politics, must also say what we can do and what we cannot do. We can't afford that. We have to say that honestly, too. It's a hard time for everyone. We can only see where we can make it easier for people. We can't do anything. We must also say that in this honesty and clarity. I would like us to see right now that all the institutions – all the national governments in which your parties are represented – the Federal Government, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, also the ÖH – do everything they can to remedy these hardships. It's just like that. It's not a simple time, but it's our time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] If we stick together, if we really see that everyone gives the best when we participate in the test, when we see that what is going on brings us to really force – all parties in common, we as politicians – then we also quickly get out of this crisis and there is also no lost generation as everyone wants to talk to us. This, too, has an impact on young people: You are loose, you are lost, you have no future! That also does something with people. Perhaps we give them hope, maybe we give them confidence and opportunities for the future: You are not loose, but quite the contrary, the whole future lies ahead of you! We see that the base for the upswing is there as fast as possible and that we can enjoy this upswing! You will benefit most from it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e7982	Mrs Holzleitner has spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8003	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! If Parliamentaryism and opposition are spoken here of as simply abusive and evil, I really wonder if you are sitting in the committees with scams. The majority of the applications in the committees are from the opposition. What's going on with that? – Rejected, postponed, rejected, postponed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Will already have a reason!]] Tomorrow we have such requests from the Committee on Education in full and full on the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I really think it is presumptuous of the government parties when it means that there is nothing from the opposition because we are doing something in various areas. It's easy to look a bit far away. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] When it comes to a Convention on the Future, on which everything can be summarized again, I also think that it is a good, concrete proposal to live with. But in the Committees there is actually so much, and we would have made real concrete proposals for everything. When the climate crisis is discussed on a number of occasions, I look forward to the discussion on climate people's desires next week. Let's see what's going to be done! Let us see what the government parties really do, what demands are there, what they really are on the table, what they really do in government work and what they actually do! This is another step. As the democracy monitor has already been addressed: Yes, young people are innovative and creative, but we also know quite specifically that just those who already have financial needs and other concerns – how do I get a teaching post?, how do I get a job?, how can I finance my life? – often of political participation – this also includes: Go on a demo – are excluded. So I find it almost superfluous to say that young people are creative and innovative, and they should do a little more if you can easily see black on white in the democratic monitor – for the third time commissioned by the Parliamentary Directorate with Sora – that many young people are unfortunately still excluded from political participation due to other concerns in their lives. It is good that we are now talking about the needs of young people about Parliamentary Prime Time, because this has been done a lot, far too little in the last half year. When do you talk about young people? – If you need a scapegoat because you've been made so excessive party again. If you need a scapegoat because there or because your own responsibility is again far too little taken into consideration. This is the discussion that has been held over the past half year on young people, but it has never been talked about what they really want at this time and what they really need, and that is really a lot. The youth unemployment – which was already a topic – is immensely high, especially among students living by secondary jobs who live in the Gastro from side jobs – when we are already talking about tourism, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. What's going on? – There is an UG novelle that increases the pressure even more, but no social pot in the family ministry, in the science ministry or elsewhere. You just leave them cold in the rain and hope that the ÖH or the communities will do anything anyway, but otherwise you won't do anything. This is really very dramatic, because it is precisely the students – we know, it is unfortunately a fact that many people need a job to finance their lives – simply let them stand in the rain, although a clear takeover of responsibility from the Federal Government would be necessary to the maximum. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] 65 000 young people are still looking for work or in training courses, as the social economy's umbrella organisations have again explained, with the figures of November 2020. We also know that this is a massive problem for the future: Job entry opportunities, the later life income and so on; this moves like a red thread through the complete biography of the persons. The task force, which has been set up by the Federal Government in need, can simply be a pipe recorder – you can see from these figures – otherwise we would not have 25 percent more with the young people who stand without hacks. That's a fact. What happened? - Too little. However, young people need these labour market opportunities – employment programmes, jobs, public service jobs – in order to guarantee them a secure and crisis-proof way of life for the future. Public service would be an opportunity to create teaching places and secure jobs for young people, and there has also been a lot, far too little happening. Finally, I would like to take a point. I do not know how often we, as SPÖ, have also addressed the issue of child health in the last half of the year. We've already heard: Without friends sitting at home, perhaps even alone, without greenery outside, without garden et cetera – football training has failed, the club life is de facto completely silent, except one has volunteered and organized some kind of neighborhood assistance – is indeed for many, especially for very small, young people, so children very dramatic. It's not that they can say they're just going to shop quickly. For them, the club life has been completely out of place, and that is very dramatic. The digital youth work was the last rescue anchor - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8053	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8073	Yes! – Even there, one is unfortunately looking for in vain any financial security of the federal government. Much is financed locally and we know that the communities are under pressure. I would also like to see a financial security stop on the part of the federal government, that they say: Yes, youth work is - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8091	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8107	It is important to see that youth work is still possible and crisis-proof. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8134	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8155	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Why do you, the Federal Government, risk a generation of Corona? – That is really a legitimate question. I focus on the situation at schools and universities because I find the situation there in recent months especially depressing for the boys, for the students. I was very concerned that the German Chancellor stressed yesterday in an interview that a paper published in Germany by the National Academy of Sciences had greatly strengthened him. This was also helpful and very courageous for Austria, since it is the case that the hard lockdown and school closures would have been justified over a long period of time – for Germany, they are also recommended before Christmas holidays and far beyond. The scientific findings of these experts are quite clear in this, and he, the Federal Chancellor, feels strengthened by this. – This has caused a storm in me, because I see it completely different. The expert who worked there was a university professor Dr. Drrosten, the chief political virologist in Germany – it can't be described differently. Ten years ago, the pig flu really had a fundamental side-by-side effect. There are collective complaints against his PCR tests in Germany and in the USA; he will probably also earn a little bit of the tests he has developed. A few days ago, he said the immense sentence: Everyone's supposed to behave like an infected person! – I’m sorry if we do that, then we all really land, the whole society and not just the children and young people, in the psychiatry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Why? – Such an approach cannot lead to a good future. There were mass tests now. 566 000 people have been tested, some 2,000 have been positive, half of which are positive over the thumbs, so I think it is wrong to say that they were positive. This is actually gratifying, but the screw is still being turned on, and the children and young people are most often under the wheels. The measures must not harm more than the virus. This has already happened to the children and young people, they are not taken into consideration and they are much too much to say. You said that such measures had also been taken abroad – let's look at Austria, look at our experts! There is the university professor Kerbl, who is not any, but the board of directors of the Department of Child and Youth Medicine in Leoben. They will probably know him, he is a top pediatrician or the top pediatrician and truly no government critic in and for himself. After eight months, he took stock of Corona concerning children and young people: Children are thank God very, very rarely affected by the corona disease. There's been no death. They are not super-preachers, they do not kill their grandparents, which has almost been suggested to them by this fear policy and which has been a terrible burden to the children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] The transmission of children and children is very low and they do not play a role in the clinical event – that is, the burden on the health system. This is really very encouraging. Therefore: You have to leave children and young people at school alone. Everything that has been described in bright colors, home schooling is so great and you have had time for baking bread: The kids belong to the school! The children have to learn something, or they don't have a future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The representatives of the FPÖ shall keep panels with the party logo of the FPÖ and the inscription “No masquerade obligation in teaching” as well as the image of a child with oral-nose protection.]] It was built up a mood that is simply incredibly stressful for the children. The directors were led to send letters to the parents in which the strictest penalties were announced if the children did not comply with the rules of distance if they violated the masquerading obligation. They are overloaded with regulations – ventilation, distance, masks – which are all psychological strains, anxiety conditions. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Sadism!]] We have to pull the line back. The negative climax is really this mask requirement in class, for hours, 6 to 8 hours, which is also unacceptable, unbearable, according to the Minister of Education. I think everyone who has to do with children knows that -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8218	Please put the plates down again, it's more than half a minute!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8239	It simply doesn't make sense from a hygienic point of view. Please note: It is also not a relief, as is being spread here by several parties, no, it is an inappropriate means! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can promise you, we families, we make sure that we send the children to school only in good health, if they have symptoms they stay at home immediately – we parents do that. We have stopped them from holding back, washing hands, of course – we have always done so, with all infectious diseases, that is our part. But please do even better today than tomorrow this mask duty! They cannot account for these health and mental damage that will result. After the Federal Government -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8267	May I ask for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8282	I'm a woman, I'm trying it with another method if I don't come to the finish with criticism. I am not too sorry to ask you to really stand up for it, perhaps both of you, that the masquerading obligation at least during the class will get away as soon as possible. [[towards Deputy Chancellor Kogler and Federal Minister Edtstadler]] Please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8317	Mr Lukas Hammerist. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8342	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We are here with the opposition, with the NEOS, with the SPÖ, hard, but, I believe, important debates about how we are fighting the corona pandemic, how we are taking action, how we react to it. What you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, do that you run around everywhere without a mask, that They even tell the people that they wear a mask that you tell people not to be tested, that is to an incredible extent irresponsible. It's really a cut-off! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It's a cut-off! [[Abg. Amesbauer:... test the masks! You say...!]] Yes, this whole time is an expression, for all Austria, for all people in this country, for me, for my family, which unfortunately is also and directly affected – as are many, many other families in Austria. [[Abg. Amesbauer: We won't let you say anything!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, mine too!]] It is a consequence for our freedom, for our friendships, for our family life; this virus, the virus, it robs human life, it robs jobs and it robs opportunities, just from young people. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is the government! The government is the custodian!]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: The government is to blame! The government is to blame!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] No, it's not a bad conspiracy, this virus. We can talk about why this virus came about. We can talk about dealing with nature, about zoonoses, if you may have thought about it, but this pandemic is not an evil conspiracy of any federal government anywhere in the world. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's incredible!]] And yes, we fight against it. [[Abg. Amesbauer: You're talking...!]] Did we make everything perfect? – No, like no government in this world, because there has never been such a pandemic in our time. [[Abg. Belakovich: The schools are open everywhere, just not with us!]] We certainly didn't make everything perfect, but we fight every day and tirelessly. But this crisis, this pandemic, it's going to pass. We will grieve victims, people who have died of the virus, people who have taken their own lives because they were desperate – yes, there is something like that. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, it's wonderful!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: It is the government's task to..., not to promote!]] We will repair damage. We will recover the failures in education as well as we can. We will overcome the crisis with cohesion and all necessary measures and hopefully also soon with a vaccine. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] My older daughter will eventually remember this cursed year 2020, with home schooling, with lockdown and with everything the children had to go through this year. For my grandchildren, I hope this year will be simply a historic cäsur, just as for us today the pig flu, ah, the Spanish flu. [[Abg. Belakovich: Pig flu, yes, exactly!]] [[Cheerfulness and further calls at the FPÖ.]] Our responsibility is to make this crisis as soon as possible a chapter in the history books, and our responsibility is also that there are history books later on, because the other truth about this generation is: [[Abg. Belakovich: Just like the pig flu!]] The corona crisis will pass, but the climate disaster – the vice chancellor has already mentioned it – is rolling faster and faster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] – You also deny the climate crisis, as do the corona pandemic. [[Abg. Amesbauer: What does that mean to deny?]] This does not make it any better, but also against the climate crisis there is no vaccine. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer:... Pharisee!]] I had a little discussion on the last Economic Committee and a discussion with Mr Matznetter of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because you're so hot!]] He just didn't want to understand why we don't spend any funding for buying new diesel cars. Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. This generation, which is affected by the climate crisis, is without a mask directly in the face. Just because we are currently demanding so much for all young people in Austria, from my point of view we have the damn duty not to repeat the mistakes from the past. This includes, for example, a scrapping premium. We will not continue to promote diesel cars. Instead – and I am very proud that we have implemented this – there has been an investment premium for all climate protection investments up to 50 million euros since August. We have provided a huge package for the expansion of public transport, only EUR 17.5 billion for rail development. We're going to - - we've reduced the budget for thermal renovation. [[Abg. Belakovich: We will, we have, we want!]] As of next year, we will set up 1 billion euros each year for eco electricity expansion, in addition to the budget, which gives 100 000 jobs. 100 000 jobs! - Yes, yes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, exactly! ...no unemployed! ...!]] We are putting more money than ever before into the saving of this planet, into climate protection and we are starting today with an eco-tax reform that we will complete next year with a prize of the CO2 climate killer. [[Abg. Belakovich: You won't be anything more...!]] With all these measures, we contribute to the fact that this generation does not become the generation of collaps, because we are currently on the move. And at the same time, we ensure that we finally overcome the economic consequences of this cursed pandemic as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8652	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8673	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard it many times today, we all know the names for the generation X, Y, Z. Unfortunately, the current health crisis has also made us richer around a generation, namely around the generation Corona, in order to – as some have unfortunately already called it – a lost generation. However, the generation of Corona is less indebted to this health crisis – we all know that the young people are directly affected by Corona, i.e. directly less affected by the virus – but above all the failed crisis management of the Federal Government, and yes, as I think, in some areas owes a total failure of the Federal Government! We've heard it today: How can it be that the chancellor locks the schools alone, locks the children away, but at the same time Is it not possible to protect our oldest fellow citizens in the nursing homes? [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] In November, 40 percent of all Covid deaths were residents of nursing homes. How could that be? How is that possible? And how is it possible that these figures will not be published, that they will be concealed and that no one will report about it? – They fail to protect the elderly throughout the line and in return disproportionately restrict the rights of young people: their right to education, their right to education and their right to opportunity. The first lockdown was hard, it was necessary – by the way we all carried it here in Parliament – but the second lockdown could have been prevented and should have been prevented, especially in schools. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] But who is it when it comes to you? – First of all, it was the recklessly celebrating young people, as the green minister Anschober said, then it was the people with migration background, as the Turkish chancellor claimed against the facts, but at least never blames those responsible. The fact is that the young people who want to lay the foundations for their future life in the education system, who want to build a stable social environment that wants to take a foothold in professional life, who want to move into a first home that wants to create a family that wants to build a future, that these young people are watching just like their future ideas, like soap bubbles. If there's ever been a generation contract, you've finally announced it with Corona. I would like to briefly outline this on the basis of the labour market, the mental health of young people and the debt mountain, which continues to grow. On the labour market – this has already been reported in detail by Mr Loacker and others – it shows that youth is the hardest affected by unemployment and short-term work, by all, compared with all other social groups. In recent months, youth unemployment in Austria has increased by 11.8 percent, and the trend has increased. There are some state programmes against age unemployment, but far too little is being done for young people – and this, although it is known that the long-term breaks in working life have a particularly long-term and negative impact on incomes and job opportunities. But not only in the labour market, but also in terms of health, not by Corona, not by the illness itself, but in terms of mental health, the boys are particularly hard hit. Recent studies at the University of Vienna, as well as international studies show extreme values in no other age group in youth. For example, the values for depressive loads in the group of up to 25-year-olds are almost exploded. And, contrary to countless expert opinions, the Chancellor also closed the schools on his own – we have discussed it several times today – instead of working out a comprehensive safety concept with regular tests, protective masks and sufficient space in the schools in summer. Even on the sad topic of pensions – we have already heard it today – the boys pay back on it in the truest sense of the word. Concrete: In a crisis where we are faced with a massive increase in unemployment, among other things, increase luxury pensions, e.g. pensions for old politicians, without Covering, that is, those fixed incomes that are absolutely not affected by the crisis, and that does not happen for the first time. Among other things, such non-sustainable and non- streamlined measures increase the budget grant and increase the gap in the budget with regard to the pension system to more than EUR 24 billion. Of course, this debt mountain also has to carry the young people again. A brief look at the topic of pensions: If the Federal Government, and in particular colleague “social speakers” – with references, as I would say in the context – applied Markus Koza in committee, but also here in plenary in the argument against a generation-friendly pension system and a pension reform that the boys would inherit anyway, then this cannot be surpassed by cynicism – precisely from the Greens. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Not only that I am first happy that my parents and grandparents are alive and hopefully still live for a long time, and second, regardless of that, I should not and no one in Austria depend on how much he inherits and whether he inherits: Not everyone has something to inherit. Especially with the greens, I would have expected that there would be awareness of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8755	Your final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8770	In principle, I wonder how it can be that, under the recent Chancellor of the Republic, so much is forgotten about the young generation, so is the young generation, and that is why I would like to make an appeal to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, but also to the other members of the Federal Government: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] It is not as you have once said, Mr Vice-Chancellor, -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8794	Your final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8810	- we wait a year, and then we see, but now you have to act if we do not want the damage of the crisis to the young people to be irreparable.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8837	No one is reporting on this. The debate is thus closed. [[10:32:05]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8858	We therefore come to the current European hour on the subject: ‘Europe-wide action against violence against women’ The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in the current hour of Europe: Mr Minzig, Mr Regner, Mr Haider, Mr Vana and Mr Gamon. I should like to welcome the Members of the European Parliament quite cordially in our midst. [[General condolences.]] First of all, Mrs Disoski is speaking. – You have 10 minutes as the founder, the Minister is also scheduled to hold the speaking time of 10 minutes, and all other speakers have 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e8897	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today, the last day of the international campaign is 16 days against violence against women, which took place on 25 May. ==References== All over the world, in these 16 days the threat of women and girls is being brought to the attention of male violence. In these 16 days, the right of women and girls to live non-violent lives is the focus of public attention, and we Greens are doing so today on the international day of human rights with the current hour of Europe here in the House. We are thus putting the most serious gender-specific human rights abuse at the centre of today's plenary session. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Now you might listen to me, too. [[towards FPÖ]] Women's disdainful, misogyne old men's sycamores, sexist advertising, verbal insults, obscene-vulgary obscurity on the street: Every woman sitting here today, every woman who is listening to me right now, I would almost say that every woman in all of Europe knows exactly what I am talking about. Cigarettes that are dampened on naked skin, a broken nose, swollen eyes, bloody side wounds in the face, painful hematomas all over the body, bruises and bone fractures, intimate touch against one's own will when a penis or something else is penetrated into one's own body against one's own will: Statistically speaking, every third woman across the EU knows what I am talking about. ==References====External links==* Official website Year of life is affected by physical and/or sexual violence. This shocking violence is evidence of a survey of violence against women carried out by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights in 2014. The figures are shocking, but they are, above all, an urgent act, an action order to us all, to the policy to implement measures against violence against women and girls across Europe with the necessary determination – measures to which Austria has also committed itself with the ratification of the so-called Istanbul Convention. Istanbul Convention is the most important legal instrument against violence against women and provides for very comprehensive measures to combat this violence to raise awareness, to prevent violence, to protect victims and to effectively prosecute the perpetrators. An independent committee of experts has evaluated the implementation status of the Istanbul Convention in Austria in 2014 and has attested us in some areas very urgent follow-up needs. The Federal Government has implemented important improvements in many, then entirely criticised by the experts over the course of the year, four of which I would like to highlight. The first point concerns hatred on the network. In principle, hatred in the web can meet each and every one of us. From studies we know that hatred is increasing in the web against women, against people from the LGTIQ community and against people with migration biography – most often also decided against Muslims. Thus, it is directed against those people who are often marginalized and structurally disadvantaged several times. The result is that these people withdraw from the Internet. With a Europe-wide bill against hatred on the network, which we hope to adopt with broad approval later, we will now create the framework conditions with which those affected can easily, quickly and cost-effectively oppose hatred on the network in the future. We are thus setting up a central measure to protect against violence in the digital sector as provided for in the Istanbul Convention. World around, and that's good and important. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second point is the legal and psychosocial follow-up to the Istanbul Convention for children and young people who become witnesses to violence. Why is that important? – Because children often live in inner family violent relationships for years. They hear the screams from the side room, they see the mother or siblings being beaten, and they often suffer trauma that can have lifelong consequences. So far, there has been a huge gap which the Minister of Justice is now closing. From 2021, these children, the mute witnesses of violence, will be granted the status of victims. In future, they will also receive legal process support and psychosocial support. Violence experts speak of a milestone in the protection of children and young people. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The third point I would like to highlight is the increase in the means of protection of violence and the protection of victims. We have significantly increased the funds for the protection of violence and the protection of victims: in justice, in the ministry of women, in the Ministry of the Interior and in other ministries. The Minister of Justice has achieved an important trend in the judicial budget, enabling important improvements in victim protection to be implemented. This was very, very urgent and very, very important. The Federal Government has also increased by 43 percent the budget of the Ministry of Women, from which very many anti-poverty and anti-violence measures are financed centrally. Ten years of red-black governments were equivalent to stagnant means, the turquoise-blue government has finally cut the funds in the women's budget, so finally there is the urgently necessary significant increase in resources. I always say it and say it here: It is also clear that further increases must follow. Further increases will follow so that we can further strengthen the network of violence in Austria and expand it more closely. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I come to the fourth and last point, namely the victim's defence-oriented work. Why is this important? – Because we can only break the spiral of violence if we work with those who practice violence, and these are the perpetrators. This is not deliberately opposed because it is actually mainly men who exercise violence. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we decided on a five-party proposal, and I would like to express my express thanks to all the political groups. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These four examples I have selected show that Austria is working decisively and consistently on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. At the same time – we are at the hour of Europe – it is, however, challenged and eroded in other European countries. Slovakia, Bulgaria, Hungary and Poland want to get out of the European Convention against Violence against Women. In the latter two countries, women and also LGTIQ rights have long been under permanent fire. LGBTIQ-free zones were recently established in Poland, and now the legal-conservative government wants to strengthen its violence by cutting the reproductive self-determination rights of women and imposing a ban on abortion. If it goes to Orbán, in Hungary the marriage as a connection between husband and wife is to be raised in the constitutional rank. That man, from whose spring the corresponding line is to come, is a founding member of Fidesz and until recently was also EU delegation leader of his party until he joined a gay sex party in Brussels has been arrested. I have only one word in mind, and this word is hypocrisy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens are watching the growth of just sketched political Catholicism with great concern. We are in full solidarity behind the LGBTQ communities in the countries mentioned and behind the women in Poland who have been on the streets for months on end for their reproductive self-determination rights. I would like to conclude by replying to those who try to cut them with the American attorney, feminist and civil rights activist Florynce Kennedy: If men were to become pregnant, abortion would be a sacrament.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9015	Mrs Zadić has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9036	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today's European hour, entitled 'Europe-wide violence against women', takes up a very important issue, because violence is a general social issue that we can only solve together. Unfortunately, violence against women in Austria and Europe does not belong to the past. If we look at the figures on the femicides, for example, the women's murders, we also see shocking figures in Austria. In 2019, 39 women were murdered in Austria, many of them from their ex-partners or family members. 2018 represents a sad record year: This year, 41 women were murdered. However, it is not necessary to start murders at all to find out how omnipresent violence against women is, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe. Every third woman is affected by violence worldwide. In the EU, half of women experience sexual harassment or assaults from the age of 15. Year of life. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, are shocking, because each one of us knows according to these statistics a woman who has experienced violence, each and every one of us knows a woman who has experienced sexual harassment. This means that violence against women is real, violence against women is everywhere, and it is unfortunately sad everyday life. At European level, we have put in place numerous measures to combat violence against women in Europe. I am in regular exchange with the Ministers of Justice and Justice of other Member States. There are a number of measures that have been launched and which are currently being discussed. Finally, there were measures against violence and hatred on the network, which were also discussed as a topic at the EU's informal Council of Justice Ministers. The work programme of the Portuguese Presidency has also been presented, and one of the priorities is the EU strategy for victim rights, which is to be given a high priority under the Portuguese Presidency. At the same time, the protection of the vulnerable persons should also be of particular importance. There will already be a conference on this subject in the first half of the year, where it is hoped that the first measures will be launched. Moreover, this has already been mentioned, it will also be discussed whether the EU as a whole can join the Istanbul Convention. The Council of the European Union is eagerly waiting for the Court's opinion on whether accession would be permitted. In my view, accession would, in any case, be important and correct. All Member States have signed the Convention, 21 have ratified it, and the Council will continue to influence the fact that the Istanbul Convention is also ratified by the other Member States. We therefore hope that there will be a lot of movement and many measures at European level that we can jointly set in motion. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In the Ministry of Justice, we have also put in place a number of measures at national level to combat violence against women. At the beginning of the corona pandemic, we deliberately accepted this problem, because the Minister of Women and I have assembled and seen ourselves: All over the world, where a lockdown was imposed, there are problems with violence against women. Especially the situation of an enhanced lockdown, in which one has to spend time together around the clock in a household, in a tight space, can lead to an escalation of violence against women and the family. We have therefore put in place numerous measures. I was in contact with the intervention agency at this time, and also later with numerous women's organisations, with non-violent organisations, because it was simply important to learn from the experiences of the lockdown and from the measures we have put in place. We also had a non-violent meeting with the Alliance yesterday, where we exchanged experiences with the Lockdown in particular. We have also recognised that we are able to bring numerous measures that we put in place at the time into permanent law. To this end, I would like to give a few examples: We have seen in the lockdown that it would be important to be able to apply for a interim order by electronic means to court. The many, many positive feedback we have received has moved us to bring this measure into the permanent right. Why is that so important? Why is it important for women to be able to apply for interlocutory measures to protect against violence by electronic means? – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, many women don't trust themselves in the house, many women are afraid to be seen on their way to court, they are afraid that their violent husband might know that she's just going to court. Therefore, there is now the possibility that the victim protection organisations can represent the woman concerned and, on behalf of the woman, apply for a preliminary order in the field of violence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this is a very great relief for many, many women, not only in the lockdown, but in general. As mentioned by Mr Disoski, we have also greatly expanded the area of victim protection. We have increased the victim protection budget by 4.2 million euros in total, and we have expanded this victim protection to include hatred and violence on the Internet. This is so important because hatred and violence, violence against women – this structural violence against women – often begin on the Internet. It is therefore important to give women support at these moments, not only psychosocial support, but also legal process support, so that they can be effective, effective, quick and, above all, courageous. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We've also expanded the protection of victims for children. Children are the silent witnesses of violence, especially domestic violence, and children are very often re-traumatized when they have to testify in court. So far, many children who have been traumatised have depended on donations, or the women's protection organisations, which had to rely on donations to support these children. We now have the process support for Children experiencing domestic violence, who experience how their mothers are beaten, widened so that they too receive psychosocial and legal process support. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against violence against women is a social task. This fight not only affects justice, it not only affects the police, it not only affects the women's resort, it affects us all. If we want to change something if we as the Federal Government want to change something if we want to change something as a society if we want to reduce violence against women massively, we also need to talk about power relations. We need to talk about sexism, we need to talk about the dangerous consequences of patriarchal structures. We must also address the overall social causes of violence against women. And we also have to ask ourselves the social question, because the freedom and security of women is always a question of economic dependence on women. That is why it is also about education, about social matters, about educational work, about prevention work. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] We are all required to make a contribution. All of us in the Federal Government are required to make our contribution, and I can assure you that we are all doing so. We can only succeed in fighting violence against women together. Finally, I would like to remind you not only of the many measures we have taken or can get on the road, but also of the girls in this country who are growing up and perhaps being silenced for the first time with words such as hysterical, emotional or Fury. I'd like to say to these girls: Your opinion counts, speak them out! Don't let your little wars and don't listen to the others, for you have the right to say your opinion! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] I would also like to address those women who live in fear of their partners. I would like to say to these women: You're not alone! Get help! Many women's protection organisations, non-violent centres that provide protection and support – no matter what language. I would also like to turn to all the people living in Austria and tell them: Civil court is the most important means of combating violence against women. Look, if you see something! Say if you hear anything! Often, outside help can make the decisive difference, for the person most in need of this help often cannot ask for it. Finally, I would like to address all the organisations that have been doing incredibly important work in this regard for years and decades. I would like to express my thanks to the many organisations, because they do incredible things and support many women in emergency situations. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a long way behind us, but we also have a long way ahead. In this sense: thank you very much for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9177	Mrs Pfurtscheller has spoken. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9203	Mr President. Dear women ministers! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank the Greens very much, especially my counterpart, Mrs. Meri Disoski, for having chosen this topic for today's European hour. This gives us the opportunity and makes sure that today, on the last day of the 16 days against violence against women, we can talk about this important issue again – and this also at the prime time. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My previous speakers have already mentioned a number that applies both to the EU and to the whole world: Every third woman in the EU has 15 years of age. ==References====External links== But I also have three other, no less terrifying figures for you – also from EU statistics –: 35 percent of women have experienced controlling behaviour of the current or an ex-partner; about 50 women in the EU die of domestic violence each week; and about 74 percent of Europeans think that violence is common to women in their country – 74 percent are three-quarters, and yet so much is happening. We owe the Council of Europe – and my colleagues have already reported on this – a truly effective agreement to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence: the so-called Istanbul Convention. For the first time, this has created an international agreement and a legal framework that obliges Signatory States to ensure that women are protected from any form of violence by means of appropriate legal and other measures. Compliance is reviewed by the so-called Grevio Commission, which reports on this. There are already some Grevio reports on various EU countries that are part of the Istanbul Convention. Many progress has been satisfactory, but it has also been repeatedly criticized that the focus has been on domestic violence and that other forms of violence, such as violence against disabled women or children, have not yet been sufficiently taken into account. The Minister has already said this: As of November 2020, all EU Member States signed the Istanbul Convention, but unfortunately the ratifications of six EU countries are still missing, and, as has already been mentioned by Mr Disoski, in some countries, such as Poland, there are also tendencies to withdraw from the Convention. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, this would be a really great loss, a completely false sign and a dramatic step back in the effort to vote in favour of violence against women. Please allow me, since today the Day of Human Rights is also celebrated, a sidestep: What is currently being done or considered in Poland and Hungary against the LGTIQ community and is already partially implemented, I think is absolutely terrible. I think this is a Europe in which we all want to live in freedom, in which every person can make his own decisions, in which we call himself humanistic, absolutely unbearable, and I hope that the EU will find the appropriate means and ways to convince these countries that they will return to the right path. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Bayr.]] In Austria too, an examination has already been carried out by the Grevio Commission, and there has been a great deal of praise for measures taken, but also many suggestions for improvements. These will be under the leadership of Ms Raab has been successfully implemented, and Mrs Zadić is also making a very big contribution with her ministry. – You have just carried it out; I would like to thank you very much, on behalf of the ÖVP. Thank you very much. For example, a few days ago, Ms Raab presented a new manual dealing with cultural violence against women and girls.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9257	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9273	I've got to get to the closing point. – Well; I wanted to do this for even longer, but apparently time really ran away today. I would like to thank you very much for all the measures taken by all Ministers for the protection of women and also for the protection of girls. I would have had a nice degree rate, but I'm going to present it again if I had more time. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9306	Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9327	Mr President. Dear ladies – and no more gentlemen – on the ministerial bank! Ladies and gentlemen, [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am glad that today, on the last day of the 16 days against violence, we have the opportunity to discuss it here too. I am glad that we are doing this on the international day of human rights, and I am glad that we are looking at the whole of Europe at this hour of Europe, not “only” – under the lead mark – the EU, but really all of Europe, because, as has already been said, Istanbul is a Convention of the Council of Europe and simply the best legal means worldwide that we currently have to be able to take action against violence at national level. Of course, it is very strange and fears that they have still not ratified many countries. I would like to call Russia, Ukraine or Great Britain very important countries, but also neighbouring countries of us, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, have not yet ratified them. The discussion has already been held: The fact that countries are thinking about retiring is really not only strange, but, I would say, frightening, especially for women there. Let us take a look at what is being said or what reasons are being put forward, why one should leave Istanbul or perhaps not join her at all: For example, when one joins the Istanbul Convention, men and women are abolished and there are only more genders, which is a danger to the family. - Of course, that's nonsense. Or it is said that if you join the Istanbul Convention, you have to change your culture. – Yes, so if a culture is that it’s normal for a man to beat his wife, I really think it’s very good that you have to change his culture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also claimed that, with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, the same-sex marriage is introduced. – Nothing of that is true. The Istanbul Convention is simply and decisively a convention that helps protect women from violence, from domestic violence to female genital mutilation. It's no longer, but it's no less, and that's why this convention is so incredibly important! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Gender-specific violence has many facets. At the moment, it is a coincidence that I have the great honour of chairing the Committee on Equality and Non-Discrimination of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I work very closely with Evelyn Regner, the chairman of the European Parliament's Equality Committee. We two Austrians form a very, very narrow axis and try to dispel precisely these false arguments. We are really working with facts and, of course, with the fact that the European Union is finally ratifying. That would be very, very fine. When I talk about cooperation between the Council of Europe and the European Union, I am already on something that I would like to describe with feminist multilateralism. It is 25 years ago that the Fourth World Women's Conference took place in Beijing, which was a real set-up for women, because for the first time it was made clear that a life free from violence is a human right that women's rights are human rights, and sexual and reproductive rights were first defined. Let me come to the next subject, namely precisely to these sexual and reproductive rights, which are incredibly under pressure: For example, let us look at Poland, where the Constitutional Court – not to be confused: the Polish Constitutional Court is more a body of the government party PiS than an independent court – has judged that in the future it is almost illegal to end a pregnancy in Poland, which drives women into illegality, to force women through an unwanted pregnancy. This is a massive structural intervention in the human rights of these women. It is very great to see that there are not only protests within the Parliament in Poland, but also outside massive protests. More than 400 parliamentarians, including almost all the political groups in this House, have signed a letter to the Polish Government calling for that to end, because it cannot be possible for us to take such a big step back and that women are simply taking their sexual and reproductive rights with a dash. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Unfortunately, the speaking time has now also come to an end. I still wanted to talk about toxic masculine – exactly the next time – because violence is really a man problem. [[Abg. El-Nagashi: Next time!]] Instead, I would like to say: If you are interested in the subject and want to see the question of women's policy, sexual, reproductive and women's rights and violence against women also illuminated from an international point of view, I can very much advise you to subscribe to the "woman's solidarity", that is a great magazine that deserves to be read. [[Keeping a copy of the magazine mentioned above]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9388	Next speaker: Member of the European Parliament Mag. Roman Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9412	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, At home in front of the televisions! Unfortunately, violence against women is a sad fact that has accompanied mankind ever since. It is therefore all the more gratifying that in our Western society, much has been done for the better in recent decades. A change of consciousness is particularly important. Fortunately, violence against women is no longer considered to be a cavalier’s crime in our culture, quite the contrary: There is a general consensus on the rejection and condemnation of such acts, and that is good. Unfortunately, we will never be able to prevent violence against women completely, but rethinking in the Western world is the basis for an energetic approach to this terrible phenomenon. Unfortunately, we are currently experiencing a tremendous setback in Europe. In 2015, Europe opened its borders to migrants from all over the world. But this has also opened Europe's doors to a new wave of violence against women. The far disproportionate occupation of the local women's houses with migrants is also an expression of this bad development. Also outside the family, in public space, violence against women has taken on completely new dimensions. The New Year's Eve in Cologne and similar events, even in Austrian cities, were a first negative highlight of this development. It is significant that especially those who welcomed this migrant storm loudest in these negative developments are silently silent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what I really mean by the applicants for this hour of Europe. When it comes to cultural violence against women, keep silent! The fact that this new wave of violence has its roots in an archaic and completely foreign culture is undisputed: Honorous murders, forced killings, genital mutilation, sexual mass assaults by wild hordes – that has never happened in Europe. These are the very fruits of the seed that the Welcome Clatters and the multiculturalists laid five years ago. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With mass immigration from Islamic countries, you have opened the gates for a new flood of women's murders, rapes, violence in the family and any kind of sexual assaults. Given the position of women in Islamic societies, this is not really surprising either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] But because this wave of violence does not fit into your ideological concept, keep silent. You really have to imagine this: Especially the alleged high-feminists of the Greens are silent about this because otherwise they would have to admit what they have done to women in Europe with their unbridled migration policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say it quite clearly: All the left-wing pro-migration fetishists bear a corresponding degree of co-debt for this violent epidemic against women in Europe. These are the fruits of your policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] In your ideological blending you are not even able to recognize numbers, data and facts. The Minister of Justice, your own Minister of Justice, has already said it today: There were 19 murders of women in Austria in 2014 and 39.46 percent of the perpetrators came from abroad in 2019. This is a clear language that the figures speak, and I therefore very explicitly welcome it when we are discussing measures against violence against women in Parliament. But if the diverse cultural and religious backgrounds are hidden for this violence, then I feel angry and I have great doubts as to whether it is really serious about the fight against violence against women.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9506	Next item is the report by Monika Vana, Member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9527	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The legendary Johanna Dohnal once said: "For women, the supposedly safe hort of the family is a very dangerous place: the extent of violence in private life is an unimaginable big one." – She said this on the occasion of the International Day of Human Rights in 1993. Twenty-seven years later, the change was terrifying. It is also terrifying and sad that the FPÖ is once again unable to recognize this serious problem and to pay it respect, but is again running a witch against refugees, watering it again, distracting it again. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It has already been mentioned: Every third woman is affected by violence worldwide, and half of women aged 15 and over have had to experience sexual harassment or assaults across the EU. We are witnessing a general setback in women's policy in Europe, and above all more and more women will be victims of violence, worsened by the corona pandemic that hits us all, but women in particular, in society, in their working worlds, in their private life, in their home. Taking into account today's international day of human rights and the final day of 16 days of violence against women, we Greens have chosen the theme of 'Europe-wide intervention against violence against women', because the issue is more up-to-date and urgent than it should be, and because we must become politicians, because it can only be said with all clarity: Violence against women is a violation of human rights, violence against women is unacceptable, and the fight against violence against women is an overall social task. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since its first resolution in 1986, the European Parliament has fought to make the fight against violence against women a political priority for the European Union – against structural violence, physical and psychological violence, against sexual harassment, trafficking in human beings, forced marriage, female genital mutilation and many forms of violence more. On the occasion of the recent European Parliament campaign, I stood up for women, MEPs from five political groups, on the initiative of the Greens, have made an urgent appeal to the President of the European Commission of the Leyen to put in place a wide range of important legislative and legal measures at EU level. This includes the immediate ratification of the Istanbul Convention by the European Union, which has been mentioned several times, to guarantee equivalent protection against violence for all women in Europe. The Commission should present a Directive on gender-specific violence in order to create minimum standards in all Member States. There is a need to strengthen the rights of victims and to include gender violence in the list of EU-crimes – as is already foreseen with hatred on the network. And, of course, we need a massive increase in the EU budget for the protection of violence, primarily the strengthening of the Daphne programme. I think that Evelyn Regner, who is speaking in my opinion and who is chairman of the Femm Committee in the European Parliament, will certainly be able to comment even more on this. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against the structural causes of violence needs – and that has already been mentioned – more to be done. Women. These are existing power relationships, which is the uneven distribution of resources, of wealth, of income, of education, because it cannot be said often enough: Socio-economic equality is one of the keys to the empowerment of women – worldwide, Europe-wide and also in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are far from the goal. Two weeks ago, the European Parliament spoke with a strong voice for sexual and reproductive health as human rights and the condemnation of actions in Poland. Let us fight together for a strong feminist women's policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9603	The next item is Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9628	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I would like to address Mr Haider briefly: Violence – yes, she already has a mesh, a male mesh, but she doesn't have a pass. I can assure you that I grew up in the country, at a time when there was no one there with migration backgrounds, and both I and my friends can sing a song of it, which goes so far in the vicinity of fire brigades and discos behind the walls of the village. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] So here again to pick out a certain group of people and put this into the shoes is a really cheap distraction maneuver, and I'll show you again why violence has no pass. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] You can now travel with me on a small trip through Europe. Maybe you can also pack something to write, a notebook, which is what you need. The first stop does not lead us far, he leads us to our neighbor Germany. It is the largest economy in Europe, has a woman at the forefront, one is very correct there. There 300 girls and women are killed every year because of their sex. We take our umbrellas and fly like Mary Poppins to the UK. In London you always drink tea, eat small sandwiches and shortbread. There is a queen and 150 femicides each year. We continue to travel, we cross the English Channel and land in France, the country of the Romantics, where all writers want to become and Liberté, that is freedom, is one of the highest goods. You eat croissants, drink red wine and kill an average of 150 women and girls each year. It continues to Italy – a true treasure box for all art lovers, also known for the good cuisine and the excellently dressed football players. There are around 100 femicides per year. We then get into a night train, thanks to ÖBB, drive home again, and here it is also very nice, as we know. There's the Sisi, there's Fritzl, we invented the schnitzel. Every year around 40 girls and women are killed because of their sex. [[Abg. Amesbauer: You forgot Sweden! There's the greatest migrant force in women!]] Summary: In Europe, an average of ten women are killed every day because of their sex, and we know that most of them are the perpetrators of the partners, ex-partners or a close relative. The home is statistically the most dangerous place for women. We have heard today that every second woman in Europe has been in his 15th century. Lifetime experience or experience physical and/or sexual violence, but only every third victim also reports to the police or a corresponding organization. And then, in addition to all the floods, there is a global pandemic. Corona is terrible and particularly affected for all, but the women are particularly affected once again, on two levels: on the one hand, by domestic violence and on the other hand, on the labour market. First, to Corona and home: Where are you during a pandemic? You are at home, and this unfortunately also means that domestic violence is increasing. The number of bans in Austria has also increased by 13 percent since March. In Italy, by the way, the number of calls at anti-violence centres in March was 75 percent higher than at non-pandemic times. Corona's multiplying domestic violence, that's a fact. Another fact is that our women's budget represents exactly 0.015 percent of the total budget, which will not be particularly helpful in the implementation of the Istanbul Convention for the Protection of Women's Rights. The second consequence of the pandemic is for women the high risk of job loss, of unemployment. We all know that Corona means economic crisis, Corona unfortunately also means unemployment. When it gets scarce, the women are the first to count on it: They will be terminated, for example, because they will soon be in Karenz, or because, as soon as they are pregnant, they will be forced to go to Karenz from the 14th century onwards. We should stay at home when they have customer contact, or they're just stuck back and take care of home schooling and co, because it's no different, it's no different, and because he deserves more. If this continues, we will soon be in the middle of the equal treatment age. We all know the stories of our mothers and grandmothers of women who were financially entirely dependent on their husbands who had received pocket money like a school kid, have been assigned a monthly budget money that had to provide bills, evidence for it – and who, of course, could not be divorced, because: What are they supposed to live on? I personally don't want to go there anymore. I want the journey for women and men to go away from violence to equality and non-violent life, throughout Europe, in which Europe, where we boast of having invented human rights, and otherwise we would like to wear the nose if we explain to other people how to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9676	Next speaker: Mrs Michaela Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9698	Madam President. Women Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen in the House and valued fellow citizens! Yes, this European hour is a very important signal, a very strong sign for all those who live in Austria, for all those who see this television broadcast, a strong sign in the context of the Orange the World campaign. We have let a number of public buildings shine in orange light in the last two weeks. It is about drawing attention – to draw attention to the issue of violence against women and girls. Violence can be physical. It begins with small handgears, which then lead to injuries, to fear, to violence, but unfortunately more and more to death. Violence can be psychological when women and girls are manipulated and intimidated. Violence can be sexual if women and girls are abused and abused. However, violence is also structural. This means that social systems increase inequality of power, income disadvantages, lower educational opportunities rather than reduce them if not combated. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Violence appears in so many forms. It is often carried out and endured in private, but violence against women concerns us all. We must not look away, we must look and we must actively do something about it. Citizenship is in demand. The great United Nations Unite campaign aims to end violence against women by 2030. Well, by 2030 – we must, and this is our task and responsibility, be in solidarity all over the world, fight against this violence in its area, in Europe and in Austria, and take back those who leave this process. That's our responsibility. For many, physical violence is unfortunately the only way to deal with conflicts. Many have never learned to solve problems differently – discuss, discuss and find solutions together. We must therefore try at all levels to enable people to resolve conflicts non-violently through better education and communication. What are we doing in Austria? What do the victims need? – The most important thing for the affected women and girls is to protect against violence and access to support. It costs money, but it's worth it to us. As a woman concerned, I need to know: Where can I turn? Where can I get help and support? How can I escape this violent spiral, and how can I consciously choose a life without violence? The Federal Government is doing a lot in this area, with the information campaigns, even today with the ads, but not only with them: There are also several folders that give precise clues, in the pharmacies, in the shops, because unfortunately, especially in the time of the pandemic, there has been more conflict in the family sector. We have – in implementation and in accordance with a recommendation from the Istanbul Convention – since autumn 2019 at least one advisory body for those affected by sexual violence in all federal states. For the first time, our women's minister Susanne Raab has also launched a call for funding to support concrete projects against violence against women. 14 projects have been launched there, and it was worth EUR 1.25 million. We are also fighting, the Federal Government is also fighting the violence of women out of tradition, against this traditional violence, where women and girls have to suffer a lot. This is possible because we have now raised the women's budget twice. We have the highest female budget for many years: 43 percent plus. Every euro is worth it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have introduced many improvements to victims of violence in the framework of the violence package last year. For example, the people concerned can now change the name and the social security number in order to escape their hazards, and thus they are no longer so easily to be found – a very essential point. Today we will then devote ourselves to the issue of hatred on the net, because not only in the real world, but also on the Internet there is a lot of violence, and there will be a set of measures that will help victims. Finally, I would like to say: We've achieved a lot, but we're far from the goal. We need to take a lot of things with us, to do everything we can to ensure that violence belongs to women and girls in the future. So let me say: I believe we can do it. I believe that most of the men are not violent and, together with us, fight women for women's and children's rights, because women are not objects you can own and anyone has a claim to. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Cuckoo.]] I hope for a future: I hope for a future in which no woman and no child have to fear violence anymore. And I know we're all going to do everything together to make this hope come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9779	Next speaker: Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9803	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! It has never, at least as far as I can remember, been spoken of as much of risk groups and risk areas as this year. In the case of gender-specific violence, more than 50 percent of the population belong to the risk group, namely women, and their own four walls are the largest risk area. We all know the numbers: Regardless of age, social status and, Mr. Haider, regardless of origin and religion, every third woman in Europe is at least once in her life victim of physical or sexual violence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] Nevertheless, countries such as Turkey or Poland have announced that they will leave the Istanbul Convention for the Elimination of Violence against Women and Children, although in Poland, for example, there are only 591 women's homes for numbered 65 000 victims a year, the dark figures are certainly a little higher. In Hungary, for example, we deliberately do not want to ratify the Treaty, and in Poland we are experiencing the need for women to go to the streets for the right to abortion. Ladies and gentlemen! This development in Europe is very worrying, but it is not surprising for many of these countries either. The Austrian Federal Government must take a clear position and intervene for women's rights and for the protection of violence. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. El-Nagashi.]] It is not enough, however, for the protection of violence to always refer only to operations in other countries. Austria signed and ratified the Istanbul Convention, and we were one of the first countries to be reviewed. In the Grevio report, which we have already heard today, there are many, many measures needed to further increase the level of violence. If we were to implement all of these measures, we would need a multiplicity of the entire female budget, about 210 million euros. One point mentioned in the Grevio report is victim protection-oriented culprit work. We will decide here tomorrow – probably shortly before midnight, I think, if I look at the agenda – the necessary bill. Six paid counseling hours are provided for the violent – that is correct and important. At the same time, however, victim protection organisations have noted for years that they have available for consultation for a maximum of 5 hours per year per victim, speaking per woman affected by violence. There it must not be It is also necessary for the anti-violence institutions to continue this consultation, precisely because, as we know, this health crisis, this corona pandemic, not only in Europe, but also in Austria has become a real crisis of violence for women. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Lockdowns and baseline restrictions lead to domestic violence, we have seen this on the rise of bans. We have full women's homes, and anti-violence facilities have noticed that there has now also been an increase in telephone consultation. An outbreak of violence is also difficult or no longer possible for many women, especially in times of lockdown, because the perpetrator is in the common home. Given this situation, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the female budget is an important success – but that is not enough. We therefore call for an additional package of measures to protect violence of EUR 5 million. This is only a small fraction if we look at how much money has already been spent in this crisis as a whole. We remember: “It costs what it wants” – and this cost-es-what-es-will must also apply to women affected by violence and children affected by violence. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Maurer and Mr Rössler.]] If you take violence seriously, you will also discuss in the committees the requests of the opposition which are being made on this issue! Discuss You're serious and you're going to respond to our proposals instead of always delaying them to Nirwana! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9879	Next speaker: Mrs Rosa Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9900	Madam President. Dear ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen here and at home! There are more than 62 million women across the EU, every third party affected by violence, every tenth affected by sexual violence, every 20 rapes – 62 million women across the EU! There are 3,500 victims of death, in short: nine victims of murder every day, of which at least seven women. The figures rise, even in Austria they doubled from 2014 to 2018. There's no justification! There is no justification for violence against women, for sexual violence, for physical violence, for mental violence, for forced sterilization, for forced marriage. There is no justification for female genital mutilation, for homicide. There is no justification – no traditional, no religious, no emotional, nor those of exaggeration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Women's murders are discussed, but the dark count is very high, because: She deserved the wax! – Unfortunately, this is still too often heard; Keywords of perpetrator-sacrifice-reversal. Lockdowns have led to an appalling worldwide increase in violence against women: More than 83 police missions in the first 31 days in Spain, 30 percent more reports of violence in the first 11 days in France. The lessons from the current situation still need to be learned, also in Austria. In Spain, there is a law that allows for the temporary use of holiday accommodations as women's homes. Also with us the hotels are closed and the women's houses are full, so that would also be an alternative. There is an SOS function in the public security app in Spain; it is uncomplicated: wipe once, press once, and you call the police directly. Mrs Minister, that would be something for us too, Copy-and-paste would certainly be allowed. [[towards Federal Minister Raab]] There were 64 meetings on the Beijing Action Programme, the termination of practices such as female genital mutilation and child marriage, early marriage, forced marriage – all these are United Nations objectives. There are rising serious problems. What does the EU do? – It gives political declaration of will, unfortunately without legal force. There is the EU strategy for gender equality, Istanbul Convention, the Convention on Violence and Harassment in the Work Environment and, since 2019, the call for a strategy to prevent and combat violence. In 2014, there was a resolution to add violence against women of serious crime. There are demands and resolutions, but no reduction in the number of crimes, no fall in the number of violence against women. In some countries the rate of prosecution is low, the conviction of domestic violence is difficult, the judicial systems are different. What does Austria do? – The regulation of violence prevention advice will only affect the first violent perpetrators in the middle of next year. Parliament is dealing with the development of victim protection and representation in the case of interlocutory orders. Is that all right? But it is obvious that one of the women's ministers finally recognized: Violence has tradition in certain communities. There is a new brochure focusing on violence in the context of culture and tradition. I can quote from this: “The family or community does not see a problem in ‘violence in the name of honor’, but in the daughters who do not want to bow to traditional forms of violence. [...] The daughter [...] is the enemy.’ ‘A successful fight against ‘honcultural’ or traditional forms of violence requires the involvement of men.’ My respect for this knowledge, but you could have had that before! We have always warned of this, we have put forward proposals, but these have not found a majority. Violence against women concerns us all, politics and society. The EU will not solve the problem. There are two ministers here now, but each may feel addressed: Mrs Minister, strengthen your commitment and influence! Store You women from violence by repeaters who got away last time! It needs delivery standards for the victims, claim to timely therapy. Strengthen the awareness-raising programs of the security authorities and the forensic trace protection in the event of violence against women! And: It is also necessary to monitor bans on entry. Dear Mrs Minister, ensure a corresponding interface between domestic violence and child protection, stimulate self-defense courses in schools and, Minister of Women, finally close the gaps in care! In Austria, there are still 100 women's homes missing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9967	Next speaker: Mrs Faika El-Nagashi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e9989	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear women ministers! No feminism without anti-racism and no anti-racism without feminism: Almost 30 years ago, 24 women from all over the world, female feminists, political activists from countries of the global north and the global south, were together at Rutgers University campus in New Jersey. They came and invented the 16 days against violence against women. Of course, this was not simply an invention, the action was based on years and decades of feminist struggles for women's rights, against violence against women, for the self-determination of women and against repression. Today, the 16 days are one of the most recognised and longest campaigns for women's rights worldwide. It began at a time before the Internet, was thought of as a bridge between women's rights and human rights, even before we spoke of women's rights as human rights, and over the years has been made a global movement by thousands of feminist activists and feminist organizations. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Fire brigades.]] The 16 days were always holistic, always inclusive and always intersectional. Self-determination, independence and safety: These are protection factors for women against violence – not prohibitions, not clothing regulations, non-disciplinary, non-repressions, non-deceptions, non-criminals, neither in private nor in public areas. Fighting violence against women must mean violence against all women, from every side and in every form. We cannot talk about women's rights without talking about all women. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And we cannot talk about women's rights without talking today, in particular, about the rights of Muslims and their concern about anti-Muslim racism, a discriminatory and violent experience and for a lot of life's reality. Victims of anti-Muslim violence are mostly visible Muslims who wear headscarves. They are at the centre of media debates in which they are spoken about either as victims of oppression or as perpetrators of so-called political Islam. They are the objective of policy measures, which are supposed to want their emancipation. We cannot talk about women's rights without talking about all women. The attacks on Muslims continued to rise after the night of terror in Vienna. Zara's advisory body reports that a direct relationship to the attacks is often made with the accusation of Muslims as terrorists. The reported attacks are only the tip of the iceberg. Recently, the Court of Justice has presented its report to the private sector, and it notes that discrimination and anti-Muslim racism in the working world are primarily directed against Muslims wearing a headline. The people concerned often do not know that they can defend themselves and where they can report discrimination. Often they are too intimidated, they think it's better to keep silent than to make themselves more vulnerable. Both the Zara Advisory Body and, in particular, the Islamic Anti-Muslim and Anti-Muslim Racism Documentation Centre do invaluable work. Today, 10th. December, on the Day of Human Rights, the Documentation Centre celebrates its six-year anniversary of Islam Anti-Muslim Racism and Anti-Muslim Racism. There, volunteers do tireless work by documenting and publishing incidents, supporting those affected, holding information events and focusing on empowering those concerned. I would like to thank the whole team very much and the most cordial congratulations and a lot of strength for this valuable and important work. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Fighting violence against women must mean violence against all women, from every side and in every form. The 16 days against violence against women are popular, and this is Well so, no question, but they're not an accessory and not a fig leaf. They cannot be instrumentalized in the fight against women – not against sex workers, not migrants, not Muslims, not against the right to abortion, not against sexual rights, not against women's rights. Finally, without feminism, no anti-racism and no anti-racism, no feminism! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10070	The next item is Mrs Claudia Gamon, Member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10094	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear women ministers! Violence against women is probably as old as humanity itself; the more embarrassing it is that we have not yet passed through our civilisational development. On the contrary: We have to experience enormous setbacks this year because violence has increased so much during the Covid crisis. The lockdown has given the perpetrators continuous opportunity to have access and power to control their victims. At the same time, families have lost opportunities to escape during these restrictions. They no longer have social support networks in reachable proximity, which is restricted access to emergency services and accommodation. There is financial uncertainty, there is fear of losing the job. Of course, all of this has further increased the risk of violence. As my colleague Henrike Brandstötterschon said, the worst thing is that there is the same situation everywhere in Europe. For example, WHO has noted that emergency services across Europe have recorded an increase of up to 60 percent in the calls of women in need. We have worked with resolutions in the European Parliament, we have launched calls to the Commission not to leave victims alone and, above all, to put this issue at the centre of political work in the European Parliament. My group, Mr Renew Europe, the Liberals in the European Parliament, has also drawn up an action plan. We can and must work much more closely together on this issue in Europe, better coordinate and better coordinate. This would really be a step towards helping and supporting women across Europe. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is also about very concrete things. There are always many words on the issue of violence on women, there are many speeches about it, there are many confessions on how important the issue is. There would be some relatively practical proposals on the table, which could be simply implemented. There are many Member States that have done a lot too. It is also doing a lot in Austria, and Austria has also been very positive in the last 30 years with the work done in the fight against violence against women. But there's so much more going on! I often have little understanding of why these comparatively simple things are not done. These proposals include, for example, expanding the guidelines for women in need across Europe, or a single European number that women can choose everywhere, especially in times where we are all much more mobile. For example, especially vulnerable groups must also have access, such as women who are on the run. Why give them Is it not simply a single number in Europe that they can report to? I don't understand why. We need to exchange best practices with each other. For example, there is relatively little comparable data in the European Union on violence against women. It would be extremely important to cooperate more closely with the data collection, because it is also a matter of identifying patterns of violence. These have in turn changed considerably in crisis situations, but we cannot know or compare it due to data not available in Europe. That's something you could make very easy. It also needed a new EU protocol on violence against women in times of crisis and emergency, because these are very special situations in which we are now, and no one can tell us that we will not again be in a similar or another emergency situation, which will occur in Europe where we need a coordinated, uniform approach, a plan that we must be equipped with. It is also important for women and civil society organisations to be involved in this issue when it comes to putting together measures against the corona crisis. Why is there no better cooperation? I just don't understand! I don't think it's in my head why you can't put these simple things into practice. It is a European issue, it is a global issue. We need to work together better to make our contribution so that civilisation can go a bit further and that we can finally end this shame that has existed since the beginning of humanity. That we can't do that, we just have to answer for ourselves. That's why: Don't look away! Let's look! Let us help women in distress and really do something about this embarrassing situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10162	Next speaker: Member of the European Parliament Angelika Minzig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10183	Madam President. Dear ladies on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In fact, it's really sad that it was in the 21st century. It is still necessary to talk about this issue in the century, but obviously many have not yet understood that conflicts are carried out with words and with a constructive discussion and not with barbaric violence. Violence against women is primarily a weakness which a non-indisputable group of men has obvious. There's nothing to beautify about that, which is certainly not a cavalier crime, that's just criminal. That should be punished, psychologically treated, and the hazards must also be dealt with in a self-responsibly against their weakness. While in Austria – we have already heard it – every fifth woman is affected by sexual and physical violence, it is at EU level every third woman. For the European People's Party, the fight against violence against women is one of the priorities: For example, our Commission President Ursula of the Leyen has already announced on her behalf that she will ensure that Istanbul Convention is ratified – but not only that: It has also introduced the subject as one of the priorities for the forthcoming G20 summit. Of course, the financial resources must also be available. In the agreement with the next Multiannual Financial Framework, which took place on 10 October. The European Parliament and the Council, meeting in November, are almost doubling the proposal compared to the last MFF to EUR 1.6 billion for the Justice, Rights and Values programme. Personally, I also need a campaign to raise awareness in the population, but also to strengthen the civil appeal. This is happening very actively both by the European Commission and by our side in the European Parliament. However, what is still missing are valid or comparable data on many issues, such as forced marriage or genital mutilation, but also on the trafficking of girls. Eurostat, in cooperation with the European Institute for Gender Equality, has therefore launched a comprehensive survey in 2020, the results of which will be available in 2023. On the basis of this, we can adapt the measures very carefully to help women and to lay down the craftsmanship for the perpetrators. My Christmas wish is that in the future all women who face violence will see a light at the end of the tunnel – we do a lot for it at national and European level – that they should bring the courage to change so that they can live in freedom without fear. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In conclusion, another sentence: Only weak men beat women – they strongly support them and stand by their side equally!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10237	The next item is the report by Evelyn Regner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10259	Madam President. Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council and Members of the European Parliament! Dear women ministers! What happens in the shadow of the Corona pandemic? – violence; above all, domestic violence figures are rapidly increasing. In Austria alone, there are 38 percent more calls to the women's help against violence, and in other European countries it does not look much different. Violence against women affects us all – well, that we are addressing this issue today. You, Chancellor Kurz, have held so many crisis press conferences in recent months, but violence against women and girls because of the lockdowns has never been a subject. 20 women were murdered in Austria this year alone by their partner or ex-partner, 22 have only barely escaped death – terrifying numbers! When we look at the global figures: 137 women are murdered every day only because they are women – only for that reason! Today, on the Day of Human Rights, on the last of the 16 days against violence against women, these figures must be clear to us: The largest, the most widespread, the most systematic human rights abuse against women is that of violence against women and violence against children. Therefore, the following applies: Women's rights are human rights! Today is my daughter's birthday, she's 14 years old. We owe it to the generation of these girls that they experience a greater degree of equality, that they experience more protection in the fight against violence. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Gender equality is one of the main objectives of the European Union and is also enshrined in Article 7 of the Austrian Federal Constitution. I expect effective action in this area to be taken at both European and Federal Government level. What's the government doing? – She advertises in daily newspapers that violence would be a private problem instead of publishing auxiliary numbers – this is simply unacceptable, because the private is political! Austria must not become Poland and Hungary. We see that the Istanbul Convention requires an active commitment. We in the European Parliament – Monika Vana is actively involved in the Equality Committee – work closely with the Council of Europe, with Penny Bayr, so that those countries that have not yet implemented the Istanbul Convention change this. This requires all of our efforts. In the European Parliament, we call on the Commission – and it is more than willing – to take steps at European level, not only to join the Istanbul Convention as an EU, but also to have a plan B, namely to present a programme for the protection of women. This plan B means actively creating a directive to protect women and girls in Europe, and I am very much committed to doing so as chairman of the Committee. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] It is also important to include violence against women in the Eurocrime list. We need minimum protection, minimum standards and cooperation across borders. This is one of our major jobs in the European Parliament in the next few years. In some EU countries, however, we also see some positive things we can learn from. I would like to highlight my favorite example of Finland: Finland is the country that is particularly effective in combating the Corona crisis, and this includes a national action plan to combat violence against women. Finland compares figures, data and facts and in this way creates better cooperation between justice, administrative authorities and NGOs. We owe our girls and our women, both in Austria and in Europe, to work for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10326	The next speaker is Mrs Susanne Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10347	Madam President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the words of my predecessor and refer to the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe in order to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. It is a matter of course, of course: Each country fights violence, including violence against women and children. There is, above all, criminal law to do that, as appropriate means must be provided to ensure effective prosecution, and of course one must already invest in prevention. The Istanbul Convention is a legally binding instrument and requires States to act effectively against violence against women. However, several previous speakers have already mentioned morally again that there are countries that do not implement the Convention they reject – and that is why my previous speakers put it to the speaker. My previous speaker, too, advocates Hungary and Poland: Because they did not implement the Convention, did not ratify it, they would incite or condone violence on women, and would not speak out against violence against women. That's not right! It must also be addressed why these countries are opposed to the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and that it is not exclusively devoted to the fight against real violence against women, but that, even if it has already been disputed today, there is an ideology behind it that can be rejected. Hungary and Poland are very likely to have sufficient criminal law to combat violence against women, and they also have women's homes and prevention measures. However, they oppose the ideology that is to be imposed on them – and in my opinion it is right. In fact, the Convention assumes that the cause of violence is always in education and is predetermined in childhood. That's why young boys now have to learn that girls and boys are equivalent. – Yes, of course, but there should be sex education for young children again, one must work on it and raise it; but not the families should raise the children, but the state should intervene. It includes the approach that the sexes are not biological, but social constructions; and it is stated that this sex is not determined by biology and nature, but by social roles and behaviours that are assigned to men and women. But not everyone sees it like that. The Convention simply ignores the natural differences between men and women, and differences in behaviour are only social and are already discriminatory. So you have to be very careful when it comes to violence. We understand among them real physical violence. In this convention, however, the concept of violence is defined very, very far and excessive, because, for example, a family life with a classical division of roles – if the woman is more dedicated to child rearing and more domestic work than the man – is already considered to be, as it were, an outdated pattern of behaviour that was socially assigned and is already regarded as part of structural violence. But I firmly reject that. This is the way Hungary and Poland do, and they have every right to do so without being shocked that they did nothing against violence against women. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only say to the Corona policy: It will already be so that violence against women and also against children or the conflicts and aggressions have increased. But above all, the government parties and the parties that supported the lockdown must be taken into account. This is an incredibly stressful situation for families living in the closest room where the children are at home, where men and women are gathered around the clock, in which aggression is increasing. It's better to start by looking at lockdowns, school closures and so on as short as possible or not repeated. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] It is also a mistake in this Convention that it is a significant concern only for relation states, which have to be fought and punished, but it does not deal with the attacks on the streets, but which are also a major problem – and I wonder if we are not ahead of Hungary and Poland. I therefore think that it is totally inappropriate to go about these countries; the same applies to the rule of law debate: Only ideology is to be imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10408	The next speaker is Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10434	At such a late date in the debate, almost everything should be said. I noticed what was not happening, and I find that relatively exciting: Several speakers have mentioned the two major studies we have on violence against women: that a third of women over 15 years of age worldwide will be victims of violence, that after another study in Europe it is up to 50 percent of women. What no one has talked about, because we have no figures on this, is how many percent of men practice violence against women. We don't know. We can draw conclusions from these studies we have. If I break it down to this plenary room: 72 women were praised as delegates, of whom 72 are victims of violence in the course of their lives, one third to half – 24 to 36 –. You have to keep this in mind once, because we can keep that in mind. What we can't keep in mind is how many hits there are actually running around and doing these acts – and I think that this debate should be faced if one is to stand. It is obvious that the data is missing if one cannot even discuss it this way here in Parliament. We have a proposal: Just before that, we discussed relatively spontaneously and ad hocly that we should be careful to get these data, next time we have such a debate, we will also be discussing men on a numerical basis – and not only the women who are affected by it. That goes on, the means to do so are thank God – and we are at the same time at the European debate, because this is not just an Austrian topic and not only for Austria. The European Union is implementing its policy in this area over the next seven years, with the budget for the next seven years that we are now discussing. This is an interesting thing, a new fund has been created by merger: EUR 400 million for educational work, for women's policy work and legal work. This sounds like a lot of money, divided into seven years and 27 Member States, is 2 million euros per country and per year, which are now available for educational work and information work in this area. However, you can use this money, you have to use it and you have to use it – and this is also important across Europe. How'd it hear? Three neighbouring countries of Austria – Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic – have not yet ratified the Istanbul Convention, where this does not matter. The situation in Poland really puts women under real political pressure. Bulgaria has not signed. It is important that we make European policy in this area, because it is possible to finance educational, supportive and advisory organisations from the European level. If they do not get any money in Poland or elsewhere, we can do so at European level. This is important and belongs to the next European budget supported. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] However, I do not think we need to point our finger at other EU Member States. In Austria, violence of fathers against their children has only been punishable since the end of the 1970s, and rape in marriage has only been prohibited since the end of the 1980s. We are the first generation to be banned at all. Until then, it was legal. Let us not pretend that this is not a problem and not a subject for us. If you come here from the FPÖ and say: Oh, our culture has turned away from violence!, yes, please, then go down and kneel down at the grave of Johanna Dohnal, because she has done this in Austria – namely, against your politics and against your culture. We have managed to stop legitimizing violence against women in this country, but you and your conservative legal policy have fought for decades to ensure that these women's rights can be enforced. We have enforced this against you, against you we have managed to thank God! [[Abg. Amesbauer:... ÖVP!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As I said, we don't have to show with our finger on Poland or anywhere else, we will have to resist having a flash. We will always have to fight against it if there are voices in Austria that we are once again discussing abortions and taking up studies and otherwise, when political Catholicism begins, going into and out in Parliament. [[Cheerfulness of Members Bösch and Kassinger]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: You mean Mrs Kugler now!]] Then we will have to be very vigilant and not make foot spreads soft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10505	Mr Johannes Margreiter is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10526	Madam President. Dear women Federal ministers! This debate is about another virus. Evolution has liked to provide different sexes in the different species: We know species with peacockly beautiful males and inconceivable females, we know dronelike males and bee-working females, and yes, then there is still man, and in man it is so that the men are equipped with physical superiority. This may have made sense in evolution history, today this physical superiority has a toxic effect, toxically like a virus, and the virus is called violence against women. But it is not only physical violence, we are also talking about dependencies of emotional and economic nature. This virus, which poisons the lives of so many people and families, also costs human lives. We have heard of these statistics today. And here in Austria, too, the number of infections is far too high. Let's not think about it. The virus is widespread in all social classes. We do not need to divide population groups, whether with migration background or autochthon or whatever, whether rich or poor. I know from my professional practice: It is commonplace in all classes of society. The long-term consequences of this virus, which we are now talking about in this debate, are no less serious than that of the corona virus. That must be clear to us. As a judicial speaker of my group, I would like to acknowledge the judicial and security efforts that have been made in recent years to help those affected. The psychosocial process support, the ban on entry and approximation, the possibility of making interim decisions: All of this has been greatly expanded in recent years – quite rightly. The centres for the protection of violence in the federal states do excellent and important work. I would particularly like to thank them for this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a judge, however, it is my particular concern to stress: Violence protection is not a task on its own relating to the anti-violence institutions or the courts. The courts are almost the last catch-up network, the Ultima Ratio of Criminal Law. This will only pull if something is already happening. It has happened and when it is sometimes sad already too late. The toxic combination of violence and emotional confusion, as they often exist in these cases, also often makes criminal law toothless when women suddenly refuse the statement in the main proceedings and then leave to the courts nothing but acquitting them. Just recently, on December 7, there was another case: ‘Currency’ was domestic violence. [[The speaker holds an expression in height.]] These are the topics on which you see: Criminal law is too late. This is important, the advice is also important, but it would be even more important to work preventively. There is an important task for the media. It bothers me again and again when you read about domestic violence in the media. There's talk of relationship dramas instead of brutal murders that happened. There must be something to change, because only this change also leads to a change in consciousness, and this awareness must finally lead to freedom of violence in the phase of evolution in which we are now. That's what the men have been talking about. In addition, the economic situation of women often plays a role. I know. Women are often so dependent on men in their disposition ability that this plays a role in whether the ad will maintain whether or not it wants to make a statement. There is a demand for maintenance rights, where we will have to push on with the maintenance right so that we can give women greater independence and greater independence so that they can free themselves from violence. But we have to start earlier: Violence already starts in education, in schools, in educational institutions. We must infect the preventive nature of youth. This is the vaccination against this virus: that violence in human relationships must never, never and never have place.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10581	Mr President, you have to make the final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10596	My final appeal: Let's look at each other! Let us look at each other as we have learned, just as the campaign in connection with Corona has shown us so that we can gain sensitivity so that we can finally defeat this virus of violence against women! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10623	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. [[12:14:22]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10645	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10767	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mrs Stephanie Krisper has requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report on motion 1018/A(E) be sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. to be set up on December 2020. The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10788	The debate on points 1 and 2, 4 and 5, 6 to 10, 12 and 13, 14 to 17, 18 to 22, 24 and 25, 26 to 28, 29 and 30, 31 and 32, 34 to 36 and 37 and 38 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10812	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 185, SPÖ 128, FPÖ 105, Green 95 and NEOS 76 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 38 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I'm looking for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are going into the agenda with this. [[12:16:30]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (481 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act to take measures to combat hatred in the net (Hass-in-Net Fighting Act – HiNBG) (516 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (463 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a communication platform law and amending the KommAustria Act (509 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10870	We come to points 1 and 2 on which the debates are being carried out under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Selma Yildirim is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e10897	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! In our world, there are a variety of ways to provide the public with communications, opinions and information, with a range that is almost unlimited. Modern communication contributes to information, freedom of expression and diversity. The fact is, however, that some misguided persons use these opportunities to quickly spread untruths about facts and conspiracy theories in a large circle of people. Each and every one of us always encounters such – I just call it that – fakeevs. This kind of behaviour, ladies and gentlemen, must have no place in our society. So far, those affected were relatively powerless against this. That will change now, and I am very happy about that. The judicial part of the legislative package was well debated in the Committee with a common objective and prepared with the agreement of almost all political groups. In general, suggestions and criticisms from the review process have been taken into account and incorporated into the legislative proposal. The result of this process is a package of laws aimed at putting hatred on the net. The aim is to protect victims better, and the desire to do so the omission is to be more easily enforceable. The area of so-called upskirting – I remember my request, Mrs Minister, which I introduced in December 2019 – has also been taken into account. The unwanted photography especially under the skirt of women or the making of nude photos or nude videos without the knowledge or consent of those affected are now expressly punished. The SPÖ will therefore give its approval to this package of laws in the judicial part, because it will take a step in the right direction. However, a wormhead drop is that the penalty framework for simply making these images has been reduced from the originally planned one year to six months. Thus, the threat of punishment in international comparison is very low. To name it clearly: It's about sexual violence against women, it's about crossing borders, it's about improper exercise of power. To take home intimate photos and then possibly spread in the web is a serious attack on the integrity of people, especially of women and girls. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not a cavalier crime, so the threat of punishment should also correspond to the unlawful content of the act. We will therefore put in place an amendment which will re-establish the criminal framework by one year. However, I would also like to take up at this point a call for help from SOS Children's Village, which rightly points to the special concern of children and young people, and therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that you will have an opinion and a reluctance as well as your approval. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:23]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11082	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Ms. Sigrid Maurer spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11106	Madam President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today it is a special plenary day for thousands of people affected by hatred on the net. I am also very pleased personally that we can today adopt an effective, comprehensive package to combat hatred on the web. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Please allow me to speak a little bit from my personal experience on this subject on this day too. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] The hatred has accompanied me personally since my very first interview in an Austrian daily 11 years ago. [[Abg. Amesbauer: May!]] I think most women in the room have happened the same way. For us, hatred belongs to politicians in everyday life, it is perfectly normal for us to be reproached sexically that we are being devalued that cruel jokes are being made about us, that we are threatened with rape being desired, that rape is partly threatened, that the suicide is revealed to us, that death is wished for us, and that this also explicitly ends in threats of violence. Unfortunately, this is a reality for us politicians, especially for us women, and we are used to it. However, we are in a privileged situation, we can – if the threats are quite massive – provide legal representation and we can address the public. Most of the people involved in hate on the web can't do this, and for these people, this package is so extremely important. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] In recent years, I have not dealt very voluntarily with this issue very intensively. It is known to all of you the so-called beer hostcausa, a truly bizarre case that has caused great indignation and also great public discussion and which has, unfortunately, confirmed the very often classical perpetrator-offering in this area, for which there have been very wide discussions. This case has provided a lot of attention and awareness. I got thousands of news from people who wrote: I didn't know it was so bad at all! I have written quite a lot of those affected: Teenagers whose ex-friends have posted nude photos in WhatsApp groups in Facebook groups; Women who have been insulted on the Internet because they have expressed their opinion that their accounts must have taken off-line because they have stopped hating. Concerned fathers have reported to me and have asked what they can do to protect their daughters, for they do not want to look at the way hatred breaks down on young women. In recent years, I have had all these requests – which were very often calls for help: what should I do, what can I do? – which I have received, can only answer very unsatisfyingly. My answers have been: Delete it! Block the account, block the people who write it to you! Go offline for a while! Please report it to Zara and check if a complaint is possible! As far as the current legal situation is concerned, in most cases hatred on the network is not possible. If a complaint is possible, then only with a significant cost risk and with a very, very long process duration. – We change that with this package today. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] People affected by hatred on the net want one thing: that it stops quickly and that it no longer affects them, that they no longer have to deal with it. With this package, we are creating an hasty procedure, which is unique, which is already being taken care of in other European countries and which may be imitated. We are launching a rapid procedure which will enable those concerned to obtain a notice of omission within a few days. This works so that a form is filled out that is sent with the screenshots to the District Court, and the District Court then decides within a few days what to do with it. If the posting or the private message devalues human dignity, an injunction will come, and the hate poster must bear the court fees of 108 euros. We're sharpening the paragraph to cybermobbing. The case mentioned by me, a one-time upload of nude photos, is not yet covered by these paragraphs – in the future he will do so very well. With this package of laws, we strengthen the protection of victims, we strengthen personal rights and we enable psychosocial process support for those affected by hatred on the network. The hatred can be so massive that there are massive mental impairments; we have a lot of reports on this. This is also a very important milestone in this package. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Another very, very central point concerns the large platforms. Facebook and Twitter have their own rules, their community rules, but amazingly they are currently in such a way that, for example, anti-Semitic hetze stays for weeks and is not deleted despite reporting, while other contents are immediately deleted. So Facebook can do it, it just doesn't want it until now. We take Facebook, Twitter and other internet giants into duty. They will no longer be able to evade their responsibilities in the future. [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] The liberals are now afraid of freedom of expression. This may also be because the Freedom Party is the party that is most commonly condemned for hatred and in which there are also the most so-called individual cases, which require them to delete postings – just as it happens again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] What this package of laws is about is exactly the opposite, namely the safeguarding of freedom of expression, because there is a fundamental right to freedom of expression for all people. However, there is no fundamental right to the dissemination of hatred on the web. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With this package of laws, we allow those affected not to have to withdraw, that those affected can continue to be allowed to keep their accounts, their profiles on the Internet, to express their views and can not be pushed out by the hate posters and hetzers. It has been a very, very long struggle of whole, very many participants – journalists, activists, network activists – and I would also like to expressly thank the Ministry of Justice and the Federal Chancellery. Their officials have done great things to bring this package into line, which is really unique in Europe and which, I believe, will also find imitators. We know we can't get rid of hatred, but with this package we can fight it much more effectively, and I'm really happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11194	Next speaker: Mrs Susanne Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11215	Madam President! Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Hatred in the net is supposed to be the biggest problem of our present time; I do not see it that way. I see hatred on the street, hatred in reality and violence in reality as a much bigger problem. However, it is admittedly a problem that can also be addressed by the existing criminal law instruments if it is added to it with a quick, effective enforcement. However, it is not the least to object, it is necessary that young people, women, who are always exposed and dispossessed can quickly resist postings, so that they disappear. If a person is exposed to insults, dangerously threatens: We have the criminal law records in bad faith, insult, threat and so on. So it's just about enforcement. I am concerned about the part where the platforms are being treated, because this part is far beyond the goal. This part, of course, includes a measure restricting freedom of expression. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The new law takes bonds to some international laws, such as the German Network Enforcement Act, and foresees that large platform operators – Facebook, Twitter and Co – are being led to extreme fines under threat, to process and delete information about perhaps – perhaps or perhaps not – criminal content under great time pressure. Of course, this means that they prefer to delete more than risk a high penalty first. Review and audit the presence of possibly criminal content not by courts, but by Facebook employees, or they store it to external service providers such as to corrective in Germany. That means that it determines corporations, corporate policy, associated ideology about what is posted here and what is not, what is to be understood by hatred and what is not, what is deleted and what is not. This is the case, even if this will certainly be disputed by the Minister. Yes, there are complaints, but if mass deletion is done, one will eventually have to surrender and accept it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To this end, the companies then decide what is a break with our other criminal law enforcement. Why use this means of deletion on the way across the platforms? One could also solve this differently, as it is already solved in the media law for media owners, for which online forums of newspapers. If these indications are given on illegal content, they only have a very short period of time to delete. You comply with the cancellation order in almost all cases, then the problem is done. Otherwise, you have the opportunity to go to court. There are also short deadlines within which it is decided whether the posting is permitted or not. You could do the same for the social media. You could take any operator of a Facebook page to duty. I think it would be good to make everyone's responsibilities clear: When you appear publicly, you are also responsible for the content. So you can protect children and young people. So why go the detour via Facebook, so that the platforms need to interfere and delete something themselves? – Because the goal is different! There is also an objective behind it, and our wife's Minister for Constitution Edtstadler has also expressed it relatively clearly – not so much between the lines. She has already said more often that the goal is to keep the new technologies of hatred and disinformation free in order to protect the users. Only in this way can European values such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law be strengthened. Hate, this emotion is obviously to be eliminated from the net. Disinformation: What's that? Who leased the truth? Who knows what information is and what disinformation is? There are already many laws in other countries from which you can read where the trip is to go. The problem is: Hatred and disinformation – Hatespeech and Fakenevs – are totally insecure terms that have nothing to look for in criminal law. For example, theft: I steal a third party a strange, moving thing. Everyone knows: When I do this, I make myself punishable; clear thing! For Hatespeech or the dissemination of Desinformation, it is a big problem if such a thing is punishable. I don't know when the threshold of criminality is exceeded. You can't say that. Since this has already been defined so far, many things must not be said, which is not the least to do with criminal law. Hatespeech has thus become the code word for everything politically incorrect. Fakeevs are actually critical information that is not desirable and is therefore deleted. This is more than inconvenient, and with it we have a deep intervention into fundamental rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Such soft terms as human dignity, injury of the soul are all right and beautiful, but we cannot go through life unharmed. That's too diffuse. People not only have a fundamental right to freedom of expression, freedom of expression, but also freedom of information. I would like to talk to someone when I am active in social media, to be able to debate, to deal with people who cover everything from the extreme left spectrum to the right spectrum. Only in this way will we come to fruitful conflicts. The border is set in criminal law, it has been exceeded by violence and threats, of course! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where the journey goes, you can see many, many examples. It is only about protecting certain groups, other groups are not protected. It is about eliminating statements that contradict climate mainstreaming. Islam criticism is not desirable, immigration criticism is not desirable, traditional family images are no longer desired, and Satire too has often been the victim of the deleterence. These are just a few examples from abroad for what will come to us now. So any criticism of Islam is Islamophobia. The President of the Islamic community has already been very pleased with this law. This should make us thinkful, because of course he can now call and persecute every Islam criticism as hatred in the web. By the way, I am also excited whether, as in Germany, only the German hate speech is being followed or whether we also look at the hate speeches in Turkish and Arabic. statements of moderate Muslims – there are, for example, foreign Muslim enclaves in France – that the attacks will increase on behalf of Islam: Hate speech, 10 000 euros punishment in France. The uncontrolled presence of unaccompanied minors is a problem, as many will dim in age and commit crimes: Ads for discrimination, hate speech, incitement to hatred. The message: A youth was beaten by five black Africans!, she is right, she is verifiably true, but: Fakenevs, can't. Also concerning quotations from official criminal statistics, if, for example, the Afghans are found disproportionately on the perpetrator's side in rape, so if I quote this, it says: Incitement to hatred, incitement of prejudices. The Federal Chancellor will also have a problem with his statements when he says that the virus is taken from abroad – whether it is true or not that 60 percent of the coronas are migrants in hospitals, no matter. There is already Judicature: Even true facts must not be mentioned, because they are also subject to hatred incitement. It's about power, it's not just about removing calls to hatred and violence quickly. It is about regaining the sovereignty of interpretation, the power of opinion, the regulation of the debate. It should come to the removal of perfectly legal statements, but which are controversial and which do not fit the governments. This is a sad development. Freedom of expression was always meant as such by the Supreme Court of Justice. Opinions can also be disrupted, opinions can hurt, yes, because they have a broad spectrum. We often cannot understand the opinion of other people, but the border is only with violence. And now that we are fully involved, this constitutional principle is being downgraded. An argument, a debate that doesn't count anymore – and that's why the whole thing is an attack on this fundamental right and has nothing to do with the rule of law, human rights, democracy or strengthening democracy. On the contrary: Democracy is becoming a corner. Truth, what is information, what is disinformation, cannot be predetermined, it is always a product of many long, often years of conflict. This cannot be decreed, but the truth is a daughter of time and conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11311	Next speaker: Mrs Michaela Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11333	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow citizens! Mrs Prince, first of all I have to contact you, because your cynical introduction, the way you have talked about the importance of hate on the net, is not appropriate! [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Do you want to decide what is appropriate now?- Oh, my God!]] Today, on one of the greatest days of parliamentarianism, we are talking about important measures, measures necessary and important to address the phenomenon of hatred in a new digital world. Please take this back your cynicism! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] My preliminary speakers have already explained some key points of this bill. I would like to give an example of what changes with today's law-making decisions for victims of hatred on the net, especially in the judicial section. Let's imagine, a young girl, we call her Julia, posting on Saturday afternoon a photo of himself drinking coffee in the city centre of Vienna publicly on Facebook, Instagram, wherever. A few minutes later, a user who hates Julia – for whatever reason; perhaps she has just finished with him – comments with wildest insults, but not only that, he copies the picture, he works it pornographically, releases it with perfid comments and shares it in his network. The disfigured image spreads like a running fire in the social networks. Julia's friends, fellow students and colleagues, they all look at this picture and address it. Julia's unscrupulous. She's shaken, probably paralysed first and doesn't know what to do. What can we guess Julia? What can she do in the future if we decide on this good package today? – Julia probably wants this reticent posting to be deleted immediately. She can now apply for this in court – also online with her citizen card and mobile signature. It only has to attach a screenshot of the posting, and the court will be ordered to delete the poster within a short period of time, also if necessary, that is also a possibility with immediate effect. This is the new hate-in-net fasting procedure. – From my father I learned: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. This is always for me a maxim of my actions. And precisely because of the speed and wide reach of the Internet, this immediate judicial assistance is incredibly important – incredibly important, Mrs. Prince! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The court fees are very low at 107 euros, and if the Court of Justice gives Julia a right, they must be paid by the hatred poster. In addition, it can also submit an application for the release of user data to this insulting user if he is anonymous and hiding behind a fake ID. Then the IP address is examined or the hate poster is identified with other user data. In addition to that, we also make relevant provisions in criminal law, namely that, if this item is also criminally subject to ill-punishment or insult – and that will probably be the case in the case I have just described to you – it can also take criminal action against this poster. This is new and I mention it at this point. It is not paragraphs 111, 113 or 115 that are bad renunciation, insult or the accusation of the criminal offence that has already been committed, i.e. those crimes, that you can raise this private contribution without any cost risk. That's new and that's good and right. Julia can also be used as a victim of hatred in the network of psychosocial and legal process support. This means that it is accompanied by professional victimists to the negotiating dates and supported in the process. Another example: Christina and Anna are just returning from football training to the dressing cabin, they are going to take a shower, they are moving around and they notice that they are secretly filmed by a spanner. This was not criminally punishable so far, because if these images were not distributed, then only the state of the matter remained that he filmed. Because it was not spread, it had no criminal relevance. For Christina and Anna, however, it makes a difference whether this spanner, who has filmed her, can now be held accountable, whether he is spreading it or whether several people are watching this video. Just knowing that naked shots are made without anyone's consent is horrendous. We have therefore created the new state of action and have a criminal threat of up to six months of imprisonment, in the case of distribution up to 12 months. This is a punishment that fits well into the criminal system, from the height in the corresponding criminal regulations in our criminal code. We are adopting today a package of laws that helps victims quickly and unbureaucratically. We strengthen the awareness of people that they can resist hatred in the net and do not just have to take what is happening in this area. I'm proud that we can say goodbye to this today. I would like to thank all those involved for the discussion, for the constructive cooperation on the way to this great and important innovation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11391	Next speaker: Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11416	Madam President. Women Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! Today day 16 of 16 days is against violence. Every fifth woman is affected by violence, whether physical, emotional, psychological or sexual. Hatred in the web is violence, and we have the task of clearly stopping violence, whether in analogue or in digital life. As a social democracy, we have been calling for this for years, a comprehensive initiative against violence on the network. At the time, State Secretary Duzdar has already set a great deal on the way. I think it is particularly important today to really take an important and down-to-earth step, a foundation to really fight hatred on the net. That is why, Minister of Justice, our full support has been given to your government template, which we absolutely believe is right. I would also like to stress that we are particularly positive that the review process has been taken seriously, that experts have been heard and that some of it has also been implemented. That is how we can imagine this openly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] Why do we think that's right? Why do you finally have to do something? – You only need to keep in mind the numbers: 2 521 News of hatred on the network reached Zara from September 2019 to August 2020 last year. 80 percent of the reported cases are very clear about racism, and they are mainly women and girls affected by hatred on the net. The reported cases of anti-Muslim attacks after the terrorist act in Vienna were already in the number 80 after the third week. It is therefore urgently necessary and urgently necessary to put a truly effective instrument on its feet. We believe that the mandate procedure, the hasty procedure is really a low-level and right instrument, which is uncomplicated and, above all, really friendly and especially applicable to everyone. At the same time – it has been mentioned, but I would nevertheless like to stress it – the law also implements some new things in addition to the low-swallowing haste procedure. Upskirting is very, very central, because if a woman, a girl doesn't want to be photographed, whether in the genital area, in the shame area, the breast, wherever, then it simply can't happen, and it's quite, very important that this can now also be prosecuted criminally. That is why we also have our full support, and I should like to say the following: We imagine a higher level of punishment – and an amendment has already been distributed – we want to return to the original version of up to a year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The extension of the cybermobbing paragraph is also positive. Quite honest: From the past we have learned that it needs adaptations, that is, it must apply from the first time. We find it very, very good that this is now also part of the hatred-in-net fight law. Incomprehensible is a paragraph, and I have also mentioned it in the Committee on the right of injunction and elimination in the law, which really implements a flaw in relation to the power ratio of employers compared to the workers. This is because it is about the fact that an employer can also initiate proceedings against the consent of employees. We believe that this is a problem, and I therefore also propose an amendment to which you are all aware, with which we call for the approval of the workers. . We therefore ask for approval. On the whole, Mrs Minister, it is a law that we really think is important – that is, women's political, feminist, and, here too, as a network politician, I can speak net-politically. The net locks are from the legal text outside, that was an important thing. It is, as has been said, a law that is in the sense of many thousands of girls and women, in the sense of many victims of violence on the net. But now for the second part of the package: Mrs. Edtstadler, your communication platform law does not create a balance between hatred in the web and freedom of expression from our point of view, and in your legislative package, power is clearly shifted to the corporations. In the future, Facebook and Twitter will be able to decide what will be deleted and what will not be deleted, there will also be no qualification profile for employees on site. – Quite honestly, this is actually a privatisation of the right, and we reject it quite clearly and decisively! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] [[It was in favour of the SPÖ as well as of Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff and Mr Scherak.]] Furthermore, we do not understand the single entry at national level. You know, we're all waiting for the DSA, for the Digital Service Act, which the Commission was supposed to present yesterday, last week, but now perhaps next week. – No, Austria makes a single entry, with a bad example, namely the Austrian version of the German Network Enforcement Act. [[Call the ÖVP: But that's not true at all!]] We will clearly reject this package. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to agree to our amendment, which is before you, and I am pleased that we are today on 16 May. Day against violence against women with the hate-in-the-net fight law put an important legal step towards more victim protection and put hatred on the net a piece of far; well so! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11544	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines, was also distributed to all Members and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11572	Madam President. Ministers! High house! Before: I can very much agree with what Mr Kucharovich, in particular, said about the first part of the law, but also with what Mr Maurer said about the first part of the law. It is an important concern for us to say clearly: Of course, we consider the steps taken in this package of civil law and criminal law to be very sensible and absolutely overdue, and we will also agree with them. But there is a second part of the law – and you have already said this, Kathi – which is the part concerning communication platforms law, which is based on the much criticised and rightly criticised network DG Germany. It is true that this was strongly criticised both in Germany and the European Commission, which has led to subsequent changes – and we will experience exactly the same again. Moreover, one must say quite honestly, this part of the law has a fundamental problem. It is constantly anti-innovation, precisely where it concerns small and medium-sized European enterprises, which are then against the monopoly power against which this law actually wants to proceed, namely that of the Great – Google, Facebook and Co – will not be resisted. I would like to explain to you a few points. Unfortunately, it is innumerable not to explain itself in the few minutes here, but let's look at the targetness: Targeted would mean that you really catch the big ones. A turnover limit of EUR 500 000 and a limit of 100 000 has now been removed. This does not, of course, relate to the great ones, because the great ones are trapped anyway, but one is particularly involved in small, innovative, new European companies, and it will be those who will suffer. That is exactly the problem, and this shows that this very law is anti-innovation, is short-sighted and not long-term. The second topic is the punishment: The penalties amount to a maximum of 10 million euros. 10 million euros are at risk of existence for a small European, innovative company, which will no longer exist afterwards. You're blocking this with your law. For Google, Facebook and Co, 10 million euros they have to pay or not to pay in Austria – even this system is absurd – the Portokassa. The Great does not care about this law, and so it is short-term and unthinkable. And then comes the big point that I find very exciting: This is the time you chose to implement this Austrian version of the NetDG. The time is when we actually know that the Digital Services Act should come and is already there, so it is in preparation, and it is exactly the time, just before – in the meantime, in the Committee – the opinion of the European Commission was there. I think this is quite exciting, because if you look at opinions from the European Commission on similar laws, for example in France, then they are quite destructive. In France, it was explicitly pointed out that such a national legislation should be omitted, because it is exactly contrary to the European common position. The European Joint Committee is particularly important on such issues, as: Faith Do you really want Facebook and Google to change because of Austria? - No, I don't. It will only work pan-Europeanally, and therefore it would be important for us to work together pan-Europeanly and do so as quickly as possible. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] In addition, there is one thing that needs to be looked at – especially when talking about these large platforms – namely: Is it really necessary to introduce this at the present time? There are studies that clearly demonstrate that the erasure of the platforms is currently very, very good – you know, too, these studies, which the European Commission has published and also carried forward – which means that 90 percent of the notifications will be reviewed within 24 hours and 75 percent will be deleted by those affected within 24 hours. This also shows that there is an overcrowded activity, especially in the area of you, Mrs Edtstadler, and that is something I cannot understand, because there is the opportunity at European level to join forces to work together on a European solution that would bring us all much further.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11630	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Alma Zadić spoke on a point of view. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11656	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! In February 2020, I think we announced it. After that, there were many, many meetings with experts, many working group meetings in which we involved NGOs, involved those affected, and after numerous rounds of negotiations in summer and early September, together with Chancellor Edtstadler, we sent a comprehensive package of measures into the review. I would like to start by thanking ourselves for the fact that, with this package, we are really not just setting up individual small parts, but really putting in place a comprehensive package that presents itself with this overall social phenomenon. We know that the Internet and the social media have changed the way we communicate with each other in a sustainable way. The new technologies have brought many benefits, but also a new form of violence, namely hatred and violence on the network. That is why I am pleased that we can work together on this comprehensive package, which is devoted to this very subject. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The attacks on the net, the violence on the net range from seemingly harmless insults to targeted outrages, to violence, to threats of murder, to rape. The number of persons concerned is also increasing. Unfortunately, in June of this year we had a new negative record, 340 cases were reported to Zara's advisory office alone in June. These are alarming figures that call on all of us to act. Nearly half of these reports are also relevant to criminal law according to the anti-discrimination body. Because of this year's figures, but also from the past, we have had a goal for this package, namely the objective that these many stakeholders can finally move quickly, cost-effectively and effectively. How did that look in the past? – In the past it was so that many affected people, many women, many girls simply didn’t dare to go this way because the way to court, to judgment was a long one, lasted forever, took a lot of money – sometimes that went to the four-digit area – and much of that, as one had to find out at the end of the day, wasn’t even complaining. This has led to a lot of costs and, finally, to the fact that many people have not taken up the task. But what were the consequences? – The consequences were that people who wanted to express themselves on the Internet have withdrawn many women, many girls, from the Internet, because they just didn’t want to give themselves this shame, because they just didn’t want to put up with this hatred and hate, and they have left the Internet to a small group of loud and aggressive people. In doing so, this small group of lutes and aggressive people destroyed our conversation culture, our respectful dealings with each other. This law is also so important because it returns: It makes the Internet, this space, again a space where people want to express themselves, where people also have the opportunity to express their thoughts, without any danger of being exposed to hatred or hatred. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Leave You may give me a brief overview of the most important improvements we propose today! Much of it has already been mentioned, so I would pick out just a few highlights: First of all – and I am really glad that we did –: We have launched a new procedure. We have allowed for a new haste procedure which will also allow those affected by human dignity to move quickly and cost-effectively to the labour market. With an online form to be sent to a district court, one can request that the statement, this posting is quickly deleted and thus no longer spread on the Internet. Secondly, When the threshold of criminal law is reached: We have also made some improvements there in order to actually address today's problems of communication in the 21st century. ==References== We have intensified in criminal law in the field of cybermobbing. So far, the cybermobbing crime has only been fulfilled if it was a recurrence case. In the future, it will be possible that this will be punishable as cybermobbing even in the event of a one-time offense. We have also intensified the situation in the case of injurement. So far, it has been so that, after the crime, one was punished only if the insult referred to a whole group. Now it is also possible to be punished when the insult is pronounced against a person, and only because it belongs to a certain group. The upsizing ban has already been mentioned. Unfortunately, it is a phenomenon that is becoming more and more widespread in society, especially in the youthful scene, where one simply photographs unseen under the skirt, in the shame area. That is what we have now put under punishment. One of the most important points I would like to stress here is the protection of victims. It was especially important to me personally that the protection of victims be extended and that it be extended to the crime of violence and hatred on the Internet – that is because many women and many young women suffer enormously when they are insulted on the Internet. Many don't trust to go to school because they've been exposed to this hatred and this shit. It is therefore important to put this tool in their hands so that they can be really brave against insults and against these hatreds and hatreds. That is why we have expanded victim protection and made it possible to provide psychosocial and legal support for typical hate-in-net offences. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress that it was also very important for us to listen to many experts in this law, to let NGOs speak, but also to let those affected come to the fore. It was important for us in the Ministry of Justice to explore all the possibilities that are necessary in order to be able to defend ourselves efficiently, quickly and cost-effectively against this disgusting phenomenon. I would also like to thank all the experts who have contributed to the adoption of this legislative package by this broad majority today. Thankfully, many opinions came in the review process. We have received about 140 opinions, which expressly praised the project but also proposed numerous improvements. I would like to thank the officials in the civil law section, but also in the criminal law section because they really worked day and night and despite the corona crisis and all of these requirements, which the Corona crisis has brought with them, have reworked this comprehensive package and are now getting it on the way, so that it really is on 1. Japan can enter into force. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with this package we protect people who move on the Internet. We protect them from attacks, we protect them from assaults, and at the same time We protect our freedom of expression, because no one should be exposed to hatred just because he dares to express his opinion on the Internet. We make the Internet a lot more to the place that it should actually be: free, open, accessible to everyone and to everyone. Just as in the real world, the Internet also applies: It is not a legal space, and there too the rule of law must be guaranteed. In this sense, I am pleased that we have had a very intense discussion in the Committee on Justice, and I am pleased that the package of laws in the Committee on Justice has received broad approval. That is what I think, also for the high quality of the work of the legislatives in the Ministry of Justice, which I expressly thank once again for this draft. – I very much hope that you will agree to the legislative package, and I am pleased when this happens on today’s day of human rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11760	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Harald Stefan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11784	Mr President. Dear ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steinacker has already shown a little where the trip is going today by stating that Mrs. Prince's speech has been inappropriate from our ranks. Yeah, maybe it's just what this is about. I would like to make it clear to the FPÖ and to Mrs. Prince that it is a great concern for us that people are protected from insult, degradation, mobbing, threats, violence calls and so on, especially on the Internet, especially those people who are most vulnerable in society, that is, minors and in need of support. That is a great concern for us. It is also a special concern for us that these people are quickly protected on the Internet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, there must be a rule of law and a minimum restriction of freedom of expression. These are our principles that we are addressing. But what the government presents in the net under the captivating title hate goes in a completely different direction. It's already starting with the diction. The word hate describes a feeling, and a feeling is not part of a legal order as it does not define what it means. Love also does not appear in the law, even in marriage love does not occur. She's not a prerequisite for a marriage. Nor is hatred a legal concept. That's the way it is. It's a feeling. It is therefore extremely difficult to build on this concept such a package of legislation. If we recall only the quote of the Minister of Justice, which she mentioned at the beginning of this discussion and which I liked well: “If we are honest, everyone also has a certain sense of whether a border is crossed or not.” – It is the same. There's a feeling for that. So the question is: Is it hate or are we talking about real crimes? - Then it's something else. We have a similar problem with the concept of Fakenevs, i.e. with false reports. It is so delicate to raise this term. Who determines what Fakenevs are? Who's going to decide? Do we have a modern inquisition that determines that? Do we look back into the Middle Ages or into the early modern times when it was determined who was telling the truth? Whoever did not say the truth may even have been executed. Is that it, very well formulated? Who's going to decide? We know exactly what it is all about Fakenev's. Somebody say, "Let's go." The earth is a disc!, even though it is scientifically rebutted. That doesn't hurt us. There are enough people who might believe this or at least propagate it. For example, the history of creation from the Bible, that is, the origin of the earth, is Fakenev’s, as though it were scientifically rebutted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak.]] Nevertheless, we would never come to the idea of forbidding them and perhaps imposing criminal law. In the end, however, we get there when we use these terms in this way. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] So that I also say something positive: Of course, this package also includes positive points. Mrs Fürst has already mentioned it in part. We are in favour of the ban on unauthorized images. It was also an initiative that we carried. We are in favour of extending measures against cybermobbing. We are glad that there is an exemption from fees in the case of private funds, and the protection of victims and the follow-up to the proceedings are, in the sense of my statements at the beginning of my speech, those topics that we support. Amazing, however, is the time when this law is presented. If, precisely in these days at European level, this issue is debated under the Digital Services Act tag and we have already received prior criticism of the fact that we are presenting this today, I think this is really amazing, not because it is a single entry – for such a one we would have really sympathy as FPÖ – but because the package is presented precisely by ÖVP and Greens who always say: It is important that we proceed Europeanly! Let us think, for example, of the accession negotiations with Turkey! How many times have we demanded that we finally stop them? The big argument was always: No, you can't do that alone, no alone, we have to do it together! You have to take your own arguments seriously by doing so. The fact that you have to present this package today shows that there is something in the bush. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the concrete points of the communication platform law, a core of this entire package: When a user sees a posting that he considers to be criminal, he reports it – so far, so good. Now, however, the platform operator must delete this within fixed time limits – if it is obviously illegal, within 24 hours, if it is questionable, within seven days. Who, then, determines what is obvious and what is perhaps questionable? Who even determines that something is illegal? – Any employee of a private company determines that. This is not a rule of law. This is a transfer of censorship to a private businessman. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Drozda.]] What are the interests of the private entrepreneur? – The private entrepreneur pursues a business model. He wants to win. He is not concerned with promoting the rule of law or freedom of expression – by no means. He wants to win. If he gets into trouble, he'll act accordingly. That's the point. I can organize messages in such a targeted way, I can complain about a particular person over and over again – for which I only have to join others. This leads to a procedure. In the case of five complaints within one month – this is relatively quick – a procedure is initiated, which in turn can lead to a high level of punishment for this company. So, what will happen in case of doubt? – The company will delete postings in advance. That's the point. So I can specifically drive people out of the Internet. This is not only true of the liberal or even not only of the liberal, even though Mrs Maurer has put it as a great argument. When I open such a box of the Pandora, it meets everyone. This can also be directed against animal protectionists when the Farmers' Federation unites and says: [[Abg. Deimek: Against the Greens!]] We're taking an initiative against animal protectors! In this way they may be pushed out of the Internet. That can go in any direction, don't forget that if you decide this today. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] A Bonmot on the edge: If such a company receives punishment, then it may be that these penalties are deducted from those companies that make promotions. This means that the Austrian company, which, for example, employs advertising on Facebook, is tapped. This company then has to pay the penalty for those companies that would actually be punished, and must also continue to pay for advertising at the company. This means that the Austrian company has to pay twice. It is punished and discriminated against. That only as a Bonmot on the edge in relation to this law. That's really very thoughtful, you have to say. One point still, because again and again there was the talk of web locks: Net locks, i.e. the possibility to block a website at all, are something quite terrible, it says. On the other hand, many greens even went on demonstrations, and they voted against them in a massive way. This possibility was definitely contained in the first draft presented by the Ministry of Justice. I was very surprised that the Ministry of the Greens, which has been led by the Greens, provides for netlocks at all. This possibility was then depleted in the course of the review. They've been taken out. However, the explanatory remarks expressly state: For the time being, net locks are not allowed. [[Abg. Deimek: This is the net neutrality of Sigi Maurer!]] What does it mean for the time being? – You have it basically before and as soon as it is technically possible, you will do it. That means that, against which a party is said to have been opposed, among other things, is being implemented. This is also a very massive intervention. I need an Internet police and a censorship infrastructure to do this. You can look at how it works, China makes it very consistent. I'm about to finish with that. There are still some points that I would like to make, but my speaking time is not enough. I would like to talk about the insult and the misguided change in the Injury Section, which uses almost identical formulations to define the terms insult and injury, which will result in no further negotiations in the District Court on the grounds of insult. Instead, everything will be passed on to the national court with a sixfold higher threat of punishment. This too is a completely wrong initiative, a completely false step which only leads to a criminalisation which is not necessary in the form. That is why I come to the conclusion. I really can only appeal to you as government parties that you rethink this, remember what dangerous terrain you are going on with this bill package. They thus risk a massive restriction of freedom of expression for a likely relatively short-term media success, and this at a completely unsuccessful time – so please: back to the start!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11879	Mrs Mag.a Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e11908	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! The law package against hatred on the net, already set out in the turquoise-green government programme, will, above all, greatly strengthen the position of the victims. That's why it was important for us to implement it that way. There will be no increase in criminal sanctions or an intensification of criminal threats – no! – but more effective means are given to the victims, with which it is possible to effectively enforce rights. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have to do something with my speaking time and, unfortunately, I cannot address everything I would like to address. Only very briefly on the subject of the limitation of freedom of expression: No one will forbid anyone to say: The earth is a disc! but to say: The earth is a slice, and you're listening to throw down!, just don't go. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Zarits.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Through the new mandate procedure, there is now the possibility of carrying out an injunction order with a form and a screenshot in the event of particularly serious violations that hurt the victim in his human dignity, and it is no longer necessary to complain by all bodies, while the infringing posting can be spread forward. The Court can effectively ensure that particularly vulnerable postings disappear first and then that the proceedings are conducted through this possibility to declare the provisional execution of the injunction order. This is actually a milestone and a very, very clear improvement. The district court is responsible for this. At the beginning, however, there is also the appeal up to the Supreme Court. This is almost a built-in evaluation of the law and offers the possibility that the case law of the Supreme Court of this law meets with life and clarity. There is also a change in criminal law which will make it easier to enforce legislation. In many hate postings, the problem was that you didn't know who the culprit is, that you know only any freely chosen user name, but can only do against it if you know which person is actually behind it. There is now the possibility that the court can be ordered to find out this person so that one can effectively deal with that person. Before I continue to speak, I have to make an amendment which, on the one hand, corrects an editorial error and, on the other hand, makes it clear that there will also be defence costs in the appeal proceedings. I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12006	Mrs Colleague, could you add that the National Council would like to decide on this at second reading? It's up to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12021	I have so much to say. But what I definitely want to say is: This law will create a law that will extend the rights and possibilities of the victims and will lead to more law enforcement. This will also, at the same time, lead potential perpetrators to think more about their formulations in the future before they post them. Not only can hatred in the network be better and more effective sanctioned, but it can also be fought in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12045	Please don't go yet, Mrs. Colleague! You have to say the one sentence: The National Council may decide at second reading! – Unfortunately, these are the specifications we have.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12061	The National Council wants to decide in second reading what I said earlier. Thank you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens, as well as congratulations with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[13:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12165	Thank you. The application is sufficiently supported, it is properly submitted and it is under negotiation. I now turn to Mr Dr. Harald Türk. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12192	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! An Austrian student takes his life. This Bub was 13 years old, lived in Carinthia and was named Joel. Joel was massively attacked on Facebook, they were actually mob attacks. His dignity was attacked, his shame deeply hurt, By making initialities public, by nudity, by sexual orientation, deeply hurt. Homosexuality was put in the room and against his will an outing was made. The Bub was put to death. That was before 2016, so before the first step was made to a criminal prosecution of cybermobbing. It was said by the authorities that had no legal, criminal basis for the persecution at the time: Well, it was a young man's stroke! – The Internet can be a weapon, but the Internet can also be a weapon of young people and children. What the SPÖ is particularly important is, of course, the protection of victims. It is also necessary to imagine the infidelity, the paralysis of people, about things, but not only to be abandoned – that sounds positive – but also to be done through their injuries and exaggeration. Nowadays, people also deserve protection on the Internet, protection from stalking, protection from upskiting, i.e. the under-dock photography or photography of the intimate area against the will of the person, and this protection is a clear human right. It is about brutal crimes that cause the victims to despair who leave them paralyzed. It's not a bull's stroke, it's not a cavalier's crime if you're driving these denunciations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Cybermobbing is psychological violence. In 2016, with the § 107c Criminal Code, we took the first step towards taking action against it. But, of course, it is a legistic gratification. I support a hundred percent freedom of expression, but a free expression without racism, a free expression of opinion without sexism, without homophobia, a free expression of opinion without injury and without discrimination against persons or groups of persons. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Of course, the fundamental right to freedom of expression must be vigilant. I'm not having a censorship. A back door, by which a censorship by online companies would have been possible, has been closed. Therefore, upload filters will not be used for the SPÖ. The first drafts have still been corrected. The law enforcement has succeeded. I should also like to congratulate the Federal Minister for Justice and the many staff in the Ministry of Justice for the rapid and comprehensive work. Finally, the EU aspect: Yes, a European legislation is necessary. However, I think it is this Austrian, we say, that it is still very early to assess the act of lawmaking in so far as it is quite clear that it is also to be understood as a contribution to a legislative process at European level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12256	Mrs Mag.a Karoline Edtstadler has now referred to the opinion. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12280	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! I'm quite open: I am very pleased to be able to discuss and discuss with you today, together with the Minister of Justice, this great package of hatred on the web. It's a good day when we talk about hate on the net. It is an even better day if you have the opportunity today – and I hope you do so by a large majority – to also take very concrete measures that can help victims of violence, victims of hatred on the net. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, I have already resorted very vehemently to violence against women. I was allowed to lead the Taskforce criminal law, together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Justice, under the direction of two working groups of section head Pilnacek and head of section Vogl, we have already presented many measures which have provided for stricter measures in criminal law when it comes to violence against women and which have provided for better opportunities for the protection of victims and the work of perpetrators. All of this has been reflected in the Third Law on the Protection of Violence, which has been in force since 1.1 of this year. – Thank you very much to you, who have decided and pushed this forward. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At the moment we are experiencing a pandemic, we are in the middle of the second Covid-19 wave of infection. We all struggle with very similar problems in Europe and, of course, we appreciate the opportunities we have to remain in contact with each other digitally without physical contact, to be able to exchange. However, these digital possibilities also have a negative side, which is the even more intensive use of social media and, along with that, the more rapid and uncontrolled dissemination of hatred on the network, which is quite precisely defined. That's what I'm gonna talk about. That is why, from my point of view, it is actually a milestone that we are talking today about the communication platform law that you have to decide which is embedded in the big package of measures hate in the network. What's this about? Austria is moving forward, Austria is also a tempomaker in the European Union for the European Commission. Austria has learned from the experiences of the other countries. There are not so many there yet, I can also say that because first it has been mentioned that there are already a number of them. There is the Network Enforcement Act in Germany, which has also been improved and from which we have also learned. There was also an attempt in France to bring about a similar law that failed at the own Constitutional Court in France – but we also learned from it and took up the things and criticism points. It is about helping victims quickly, victims who are being insulted, victims who – and I say so quite clearly – are exposed to criminal offences on the Internet. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] If, in particular, the FPÖ of censorship is here again and again, I have to say that I find this discussion really annoying. It is listed in the law, in the communication platform law quite concretely, what we understand by hatred. The word hate does not appear in this form in the law, but the criminal law records are listed: Threat, distress, murder, hatred, anti-Semitic hatred, prohibitions. [[Abg. Stefan: Who decides?]] [[Further call at the FPÖ: Who decides what hates?]] That's a final list. This content has a platform to be erased in the future, within seven days, when it requires a closer examination, within 24 hours, even if it is easily recognizable for a layman that it is such offences. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mrs Kucharovich, I regret that you do not deal more closely with things and conclude that this law has the platforms that have the power of decision, which will or will not be deleted. On the contrary: We now provide the platforms with a clear legal framework and tell them what to delete, at least because the communication and community platforms still have the opportunity to set their own standards and also to go beyond this level or level, depending on which side it is considered. That is, we now take responsibility and give them clear legal framework within which they must be erased. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I’d be glad if you were to deal with it again. A second point is very important to me: Have you ever tried to get such a posting out of the social networks? – You usually have no contact, you look around forever until you find someone. In the future, these platforms must be easily accessible, they must set up a reporting system to which every user can quickly turn. You must name an agent to deliver, so that even if the first step is taken, there are contact points for the Minister of Justice, for the judicial authorities, to whom you can contact. This is a very, very crucial advantage. I'm telling you, too. It is now time to act and set up these things. That is why I am pleased that this will be dealt with today and, beginning next year, can actually enter into force. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: That's it!]] This brings me to the European dimension of the whole. Yes, we need a European solution for the whole, which I say quite deliberately as Minister of Europe. We want this to be solved in Europe in a uniform manner, so that all victims of such hate postings have the opportunity to turn to social media and networks to get rid of them. However, I also say to you that it will take some time for this European solution to come. That's not something I say now, but just a few days ago, 8th. December, we had the General Affairs Council. Vice-President Věra Jourová, who also deals with Desinformation and Fakenevs, but also with hatred on the network, has presented her European Democracy Action Plan. She said, yes, she also wants a European solution, but we do not think it is a rather literal quote, it will take years for this European solution to actually be present, even if it is hopefully presented in mid-December; moreover, it should have been presented a few days or weeks ago, which has not been the case so far. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We really look forward to this European solution. I am working with the European Commission to ensure that this is presented. We will bring in our experiences in the next few years, we are in constant contact. We have also received a very comprehensive opinion from the European Commission, which expresses the concern that this could be done once the Digital Services Act is in force, but by then the European Commission welcomes this initiative and shares the objectives we pursue with this Communication Platform Act. That is why I would like to make this announcement, which I have made many times, that of course we take account of the European level and also look at what the Commission will be presenting at some point in time. That is precisely why the Members of the government groups will also make an amendment so that we can carry out an evaluation of this law by 2022 at the latest, in order to be able to address all the things, which, I hope, will have already happened at European level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No, we can't wait any longer. Now is the time to act. We now want to provide the best possible support to the victims if they are affected by hatred on the web. I can say it again: It is not about anything, it is about illegal content that needs to be quickly deleted before the civil and criminal courts of the judiciary can intervene in order to facilitate victims as quickly as possible. What you are hoping to decide by a large majority today is a milestone. This sets new standards in Austria and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12392	The next speaker is Mr Alexander Melchior. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12417	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Today we also have the Communication Platforms Act on the agenda. Karoline Edtstadler just mentioned it, it's really a milestone. I'm very happy about that. We all agree here in this room that the Internet has brought us a lot of benefits: whether it is a lot of our information from the Internet that we can order there – hopefully everything regional – or that we can get rid of official routes and co there. Today, however, we have already heard some stories about the shadows of the Internet, about things that happen every day and some of them in the room that had to deal with big enemies have already happened. We have heard today that it is something that people have already got used to. I am very clear and clear: I do not want you to get used to it, but I want us to act against it together, and we will do so today with this law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is something – it has already been addressed here today – in which, of course, we also have to appeal very strongly to the self-responsibility of users, but we also – and this is happening at last – must take the platforms on which this takes place more into account. We will establish a light and transparent reporting system and decide here today, by which platforms are forced to adapt their systems accordingly. Furthermore, illegal content must be deleted within 24 hours, and – because it has already been addressed today, the Minister has also addressed it – these are also taxable in the law. In addition: One may hardly believe it, but in the past it was often a problem that there was no contact person on these platforms, and often there was an empty message about it. All these measures will not yet trigger the fact that hatred on the network is no longer taking place, but the first measures will be put in place to really oppose it, and I would like to thank all those who have contributed very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Because colleague Stefan of the Freedom Party has spoken about it: In any case, there is an initiative at European level that is going in this direction. – We just heard from Karoline Edtstadler: It will still take months, probably years, until something will happen in this regard. It will be important that we all – with this I mean our Members, all the people who have to do with it, the ministers – Introduce us and try to bring in the experience we have gained in this area. I'm sure we'll do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12477	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Thomas Drozda. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12501	Mr President. Dear ministers! I am totally of the opinion that it is right to do something against hatred on the web. It is also right to do it now, and it is also right to do so without waiting for the European initiative. I myself sat in the Council of Ministers in 2016, where we discussed measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] Nothing has happened since then, and the basis of the EU for what we are talking about – the e-commerce directive – is from 2001, then Mark Zuckerberg was 16 years old and Facebook was not yet established – only so that we know what problem we are talking about here. Of course it is welcome that this is now clearly addressed. However, there are two problems that I can't hide and save: One concerns the idea that the employer can place and complain against hatred without the consent of those concerned. This is pre-reconnaissance and, in my opinion, really absurd. It was Joseph II, who abolished the property – you know that this issue was discussed in the course of the review process in connection with the property. I urgently seek to follow our amendment in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Problem number two: Of course, it is always a balancing act between the legitimate interests that have already been said many things right and necessary today, on the one hand and freedom of expression on the other. I am not concerned about whether it will be effectively deleted in the future and that will be done well and professionally. However, I am very concerned about the question of what happens when excess is deleted, and how to get to his right. I think you can't leave that – that's what has already been said today – to private digital companies. In the end, this is a matter in which there must be legal possibilities. However, because we are talking about a document of the Constitutional Committee, I am not quite sure to remind you of the previous evening – this fair, which took place here in Parliament. [[Abg. Gerstl: That wasn't a fair!]] We know about the opening of Parliament in 1883, it was the opening of a multinational parliament, one – as Karl Renner called it – of the League of Nations in Small. Prayer hours of fundamentalist groups, no matter what religious community, are clearly contrary to the spirit and the idea of this Parliament. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] I expect from all Members, but especially from the President of the House who is not present now, that he is a representative of over-participation – politically but also religiously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I will give the President another word of Seneca to the disciple. He said the following – I quote –: Religion is regarded as true to the common man, to the wise man as false, and to the ruler as useful. - Quote. Neither the office of the President of the National Council nor religion has the power to serve as a useful service to the ruler. We are representatives of the people, and we are elected to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12564	The next speaker is Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12585	Mr President. Dear ministers! I find the debate particularly exciting because, I believe, we are all trying to debate the question of how to fight hatred on the net at a very objective level – this is not always the case here in the House – and to convey to ÖVP and Greens that they have found the stone of the sages and now know how to do it. Three opposition parties – all three of them, in my opinion, always objective, and I will make an effort to continue to do so – show some problems, but one pretends that these problems do not exist. I find this somewhat annoying, because it is not at all, as we have, unfortunately, at times, about criticism, which is due to party political reasons, but both the SPÖ and the liberals as well as we NEOS have tried to find out and address very serious problems here. But it's just going over it and saying: That's not a problem! What are these problems? – They have already been mentioned in part: Of course, there is still a risk of overblocking. If a company, a service provider, has the obligation to delete something that is obviously illegal within a few hours or a week, it will naturally be necessary not to pay any penalties, overblock and delete content – yes, of course, that is quite logical. That is why, of course, – I hope not, but it will be that way – unpleasant and unpopular statements will be carefully deleted. This is, of course, a danger to freedom of expression. It's right to say: Yes, we want everyone to continue to be able to express their opinion on the Internet! – But it’s also about preventing overblocking. It is also a big problem – and this has obviously not happened to the Greens in particular – that there is a privatisation of criminal law enforcement. I am otherwise a great friend of privatisations, but not where the fundamental tasks of the state are – and criminal justice is one of these fundamental tasks. If you are outsourced to companies now that they decide what is punishable and what is not – and as far as possible within a few hours – then this is a problem. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] It doesn't matter if you say: Well, in the last instance, a court is still in charge. – I have already tried to explain this in committee – at the time I, I think, took Mr Stefan as an example, now I am taking colleagues Drozda because he was in front of me –: In the first and second instance, Mr Drozda decides what can be said, in the last instance, a court – then everything is fine. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] That's not how criminal law works, so criminal justice doesn't work. The courts are responsible for this – not private persons and not private companies! [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Another point that I find somewhat obscure in it – Mr Stefan has already mentioned it in part – is this perceived third party debt execution, which you provide for. What will happen in the future? – Facebook receives a penalty because a posting has not been deleted, and has no agent against hatred on the web. Then it will be the case that an Austrian authority will prohibit payment to an Austrian marketing company, so they will not be allowed to pay to Facebook. This prohibition of payment can be pronounced without there being any attempt to deliver it to Facebook, for example. It is also true that the amount may go far beyond the amount of the penalty: One has to pay 5 000 euros, but the ban on payment can go to 100 000 euros. This is a very self-contained legal view. By the way, the KommAustria retains the rest and would then possibly be obliged to transfer it to Facebook. I also find this construction somewhat bizarre. It's even better: According to your law, the ban on payment is supposed to be debt-free. I imagine this very exciting: Facebook once tries to sue the payment at the Austrian marketing company. They'll say: Yes, great, we do have a contract under Irish law, but the Austrian law says that the ban on payment is debt-free. – That can’t be your serious problem, that’s a massive problem for Austrian companies that have to pay, of course! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Then you also believe that you have taken precautions because the law says you can, as an Austrian marketing company, still challenge the legal path. - Yeah, where are we going? The state of Austria has pronounced a penalty on Facebook, and as an Austrian entrepreneur, I have to make sure that I dispute the legal course and that the prohibition of paying my own debt is not legally compliant. That's completely absurd. This may be understandable from the Greens, with regard to a party, once entrepreneurship-thinking, like the ÖVP, it is quite absurd to say to an Austrian company that has nothing to do with the whole situation: You can still challenge the legal path. We will agree to the judicial part in almost all areas; only briefly to my last point, the hetification paragraph: It's not just about how you always say that hatred and violence are inflamed and that this is now punishable. No, it's also about being like this in the future: If someone makes another individual disdainful due to belonging to a particular worldly group – the Minister of Justice has addressed it – this is further being punished, and not only that, but it is an official offence that the prosecutor has to prosecute, and the threat of punishment is eight times higher. I'll tell you something. I think such a thing is fundamental. I do not think that people should be imprisoned for up to two years due to insulting statements. This is simply wrong from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12671	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Peter Weidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12695	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Justice! Mrs. Federal Minister Karoline Edtstadler! High house! I don't share your opinion, but I'll do anything for you to tell them. – This quote is attributed to the French literate and philosopher Voltaire. He said this at a time when emperors and kings still had the saying and found out what was right and what was wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] In the meantime, we are living thanks to God in a enlightened democracy, by the way, with a constitution on which we have sworn our oath to all parliamentarians, many of us, including myself, with the addition “as true God help me”. We have the task of protecting freedom of expression from abuse, ladies and gentlemen. This Federal Act sets out measures for the protection of users on communication platforms. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: So censorship is now called protection!]] The demarcation is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen: It is the criminal code, it is the criminal acts listed therein: dangerous threat, necessity, terrorist crimes and pornographic representation of minors. With this law, we, as Austrian legislators, have for the first time a clear approach against the large foreign communication platforms – we all know what they are: Facebook, Twitter and Co. We no longer only have to rely on the voluntary nature of the companies and on what is contained in their Community directives, but we have clear guidelines as to how this is to be seen in Austria when someone fulfils a state of action: As Mrs Bundesminister has said, the contribution must be removed within 24 hours if the illegality is easily understood and otherwise within seven days. What do we do with it, ladies and gentlemen? – For the first time, we are creating a legal path and entering new territory in Europe, for real and logical reasons, because we are also the guardians of individual freedom. We create a way here, for the first time in law, we will also become contact points of these great Internet giants, who, of course, as many say, have much more power than many countries; that we will come into a process that we will specify the rules of the game. A register will be created to list all the messages that fall into this database. There will be an evaluation. It is Mrs Federal Minister Karoline Edtstadler to congratulate that this European milestone here in the Austrian Parliament will be decided by a majority, I hope. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] There is no danger of overblocking, ladies and gentlemen, because let us be honest: Will the great communication giants now immediately be concerned that all Austrians will only post more dissatisfaction – apologies, dissatisfaction – only more relevant points? - That won't be the case. I have much more confidence in the Austrians. To the address of the NEOS, the former self-proclaimed liberal economic party: A policy of regulation is to defend fundamental rights and freedom of expression as well. It is therefore also necessary to lay down clear rules on the game. On this ground, European startups will form and perhaps create better communication platforms than we knew them. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: With this law, we end today a chapter of the Wild West for communication platforms and give the rule of law, namely the robust rule of law, as sheriff, the instruments in place to counter the abuse of freedom of expression in order to allow for the protection of our citizens on this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12750	Next speaker: Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12774	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Weidinger, your word in God's ear: May it actually succeed that this package hates in the web solves all problems as it corresponds to the intention behind them. I have my doubts, in the knowledge of court practice, in the knowledge of the judiciary. However, I am not at all willing to express my satisfaction as a judge in my group, especially in the way in which this law has been passed. Parliamentaryism was practiced in very good form. Proposals from the review process have been taken – there have been a lot of opinions in the review process – and this package can be seen in principle from the intention. It is sometimes very, very serious interventions in fundamental judicial laws, especially in our ABGB, in our General Civil Code. Our ABGB is the oldest civil law in the world. It has been in force continuously since 1811, except in the dark period of National Socialism, earlier in the Habsburg Empire and now in the Republic of Austria. So it's over 200 years old. It is, in a way, the sacred writing of our civil law system, which is well-proven and differentiated. If you look at the novelle now, as it is in place in this law, you can say a positive word about it. There you go on a legally extremely delicate terrain, on which the legislator really should move with great reservations and a lot of fingertips, and this seems to be successful. There will be waiting for the practice to deal with the law. I don't think it's going to be so easy that there's going to be a form that's lying on, just filed online, and then it'll be deleted. In practice, this will prove to be much more complex. As legislators, we must keep a close eye on this matter and evaluate it very carefully. I would expect us to take a close look at this in the Committee on Justice, and it is likely that it will have to be improved over a foreseeable period of time. In general, however, it is a law that can be satisfied with a law that wants to solve a problem that simply concerns social change, which brings technical change with it. There is a good will that we recognize, and we wish this law that it may also achieve its intention. The concerns that exist – in the areas of communication platforms as well as criminal law – have already been expressed by colleagues Scherak and Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. So from our side there is agreement to this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12819	Mrs Mag. Johanna Jachs. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12844	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some of us here have already gained experiences with hatred on the net, and I think that must give us some thought. It is clear that we are politicians in an exposed situation and that we may also have gotten a thicker skin than some others. However, it is also clear that our task is to give a tool to those who do not have this thick skin or who are not as public as we are, so that we may already be used to it, so that they too can quickly and effectively defend themselves against hatred on the web and such fig and anonymous attacks. I was allowed to speak here at the speaker's desk a few weeks ago on the topic of upskirting. That is why I am particularly pleased that we are today adopting a law which also punishes the making and spreading of upskirts, for it is for us It is quite clear that this is not a youthful sense of light, but is really a punishment. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is looking at us, because we are doing a lot of new things with this law to be adopted today! We are in a new era, we are no longer living in the Middle Ages, as Mr Stefan has said, and that is why it is really important for us to adopt new laws that are going on over time and not to stand at a point where modern technology has just overtaken us. Ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, I do not understand why you are so uncertain here, because I think it is very important that platforms that profit from their business model should be able to establish certain protection mechanisms for their users. So I assure you, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and NEOS: It's not about measures that overrun freedom, but it's really about protecting people from their attacks and giving them an effective tool. I hope that you too will be able to convince yourself, because we will evaluate this over the next two years – the Federal Minister has already mentioned it. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[14:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e12988	The amendment is sufficiently supported, it is properly submitted and is therefore also under negotiation. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 1 to 5 and continue to complete the agenda. [[14:04:38]] 3rd. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (478, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Consumer Credit Act and the Mortgage and Real Estate Credit Act (517 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13027	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Christian Drobits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13058	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Now, at first glance, this item on the agenda is about to include a success story, namely that, as a result of a statement from the European Court of Justice, laws for consumers in Austria are being changed in a positive way. This is because the European Court of Justice has been called into question in the Causa Lexitor in order to observe that, in the event of early credit repayment, the cost of the loan must, in principle, also be reduced in terms of time-independent costs, such as processing fees and so on. This will require a change in the laws, namely the Consumer Credit Act and, subsequently, the Mortgage Act. While it is likely that the total cost is meant, a major problem which we have is the date of entry into force: When should this regulation apply and from what date should consumers have something of it? Mrs. Federal Minister, I have already mentioned in the Committee that although I am grateful that this EU directive is now being implemented, I believe that when it comes to the entry into force at a time of pro futuro, as it is now in the draft law, only costs have been reduced and money has been saved, but the law has not been implemented in accordance with the directive. It is an in-depth loss of consumers, it is above all an in-depth loss of those who have a housing credit with high processing fees, and I believe that, as a result of the state liability that the Republic of Austria has in implementing the directive in conformity with its rules, we must seek to ensure that we do not make a implementation pro futuro, but at least from 11.9.2019, the date of the publication of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. We are also of the opinion that this time fits precisely in times of the Covid crisis, because: What are those who are affected by Covid to say that if they are re-indebted only per futuro, they will benefit from a reduction in the total cost, i.e. only afterwards, and not as early as 11.9.? I therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the sense of my group, but also the NEOS, make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13113	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that you do not have to read the request. According to § 53 para. 4 GOG, the explanation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13128	I would like to point out that it cannot be that we do not implement an EU directive and a final judgment of the European Court of Justice, because we may believe that the money for it is not there. I also believe that we also need to implement this directive because the Federal Council will have to deal with it later on, and it may not agree to this law at the Federal Council meeting due to the entry into force. In this sense, I ask the government parties once again to reconsider this draft law, particularly with regard to the entry into force, and perhaps to agree to our amendment. – Thank you for the attention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[14:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13236	As mentioned earlier, the application was made in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GoG distributed, it is properly introduced and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Ulrike Fischer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13263	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. President! Well, a bulky topic: Consumer credit law, mortgage and real estate credit law. Both are today being improved and amended in the sense of consumer protection. We want to vote together on a bill that brings improvements to consumer protection. In detail, this is about the implementation of the Lexitor judgment of 11 December. September 2019. The occasion was Poland; the consumer organisation Lexitor helped dissatisfied consumers, consumers in so far as it became present at the ECJ, and the ECJ decided that running time-dependent and run-time-independent costs should be reduced. This judgment brings us something for consumer protection, in so far as, for example, processing fees demanded by the bank at the beginning of a loan are to be adequately replaced. To summarize it again: With the bill on which we vote today, the Consumer Credit Act will not only be adapted but will be improved in the interests of consumers. A directive-compliant legal situation is being established, and it must be thanked for that. This also reduces the costs for consumers if, for example, they repay a consumer credit. – This is the duty. But now to the course: Just as my previous speaker mentioned this, it is not. We go beyond what the directive requires, and the date of entry into force is not the date of the novel, but we go back to the Lexitor judgment, i.e. the 11th. September, and second, the mortgage and real estate credit laws are also adapted accordingly, so that from now on the costs can be reduced in proportion. Finally, this is an important step towards consumer protection. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13302	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Volker Tireberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13327	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! What's this about? The European Court of Justice has ruled in a decision how to interpret the EU Directive on consumer rights in the event of early credit repayments. This decision has shown that we have failed to implement this EU directive in Austria, which is at the expense of consumers and banks. The ECJ has audited that, in the event of early credit repayment, the total cost of the loan is to be reduced and not only the run-time costs, as foreseen by law in Austria so far. That is why there is now a need for legislative action, but unfortunately the statement of the European Court of Justice with the present government proposal will only be implemented half-heartedly. This also shows the sharp criticism of the Supreme Court in the review procedure. Our first criticism is that the present, although more correct, but still not correct, implementation of the EU Directive should only apply to consumer credit, which is based on the date of the date of application of the directive. 11. In September 2019, i.e. the date of the ECJ decision, were closed or granted. However, it would only be logical and fair to include older consumer loans, which were concluded after the national transposition of the Directive, which would be the date of the date of the year 11. ==References== In fact, this halfhearted novelle is nothing but an ÖVP gift for the local banks, to which there is a certain close relationship. If the European Court of Justice is to deal with today's law relating to older credit contracts concluded between 2010 and 2019, it will likely repeal this law. Until then, it continues to be at the expense of consumers and banks, and everything just to give credit to banks from nine years of EU-lawful banking fees. Our second criticism is that the word total cost is deliberately avoided and is always spoken of only cost. In the comments on the government template, there is something amazing about it, and I quote from it: ‘Although the Directive also uses the term ‘total costs’ in the context of the early repayment, ‘a closer understanding of the costs covered’ should be taken into account in the light of material considerations.’ — Quotes. That's amazing, because in the government template there's a sense in it: We consider the EU directive to be inaccurate in this regard and therefore deliberately do not implement it correctly. – This is an interesting attitude for self-proclaimed European parties and in no way consumer-friendly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, follow your heart! Don't feel committed to the banking lobby and agree to our amendment! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mrs Bundesminister, I wish you all the best for the coming weeks. There is nothing better in the world than the miracle of a child's birth. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[14:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13474	The amendment is sufficiently supported, it is properly submitted and it is also under negotiation. Mr Christian Stocker has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13503	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned here by my previous speakers: It is about the implementation of the Directive with regard to the early repayment of consumer credit. The event is the judgment of the ECJ in the so-called Lexitor case of 11.9.2019 concerning the rights of consumers in the event of early credit repayment. This judgment gives rise to a tension with regard to the national implementation of this issue in the Consumer Credit Act and the interpretation of the ECJ in this judgment. The difference is that, contrary to our legal regulations, the ECJ considers all costs imposed on the consumer to be covered by the right of measurement, while our legal provisions currently cover only the running-time-related costs. What is the cost of this right of measurement now? – It is true, as my previous speaker said, that the ECJ is going to explain this very far and this directive speaks of total costs, but I believe that these considerations, which lead to a narrowing of this interpretation, are quite appropriate. What is the closer understanding of these costs? – It is clear that those costs that are announced to the consumer when entering its credit relationship and which concern the overall burden of the credit are included, and that, however, those costs, such as notarial costs or intermediation costs for the credit, are no longer included. In contrast to my previous speakers, I also believe that it is appropriate if the entry into force of this law takes place at the time of the judgment, but if the effect is only to be achieved for those loans that are repaid after 1.1.2021, because – and this is a fundamental issue of the legal system – one should be very careful with retroactive effects, because it is ultimately also about the protection of trust. That was what led us to do, and not the fact that we want to see someone or the banking sector do something about it. It should also be noted that there should be a fair application of these provisions in the mortgage and real estate credit law. This means that the arrangements are also applicable to these credit conditions. Finally, it is also true that this change in the law causes exceptions in residential property loans for consumers in connection with housing development, i.e. better consumer creation by means of easier credit in the housing sector. All in all, this is a welcome change in favour of consumers, who are quite appropriate and who are in line with the interests of all those involved, especially consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13547	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - No, I don't. As agreed, I also put these votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on Agenda items 1 to 5 and continue to complete the agenda. [[14:20:14]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motion 895/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the 1. COVID-19-Justice Act, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers, the Company Law COVID-19 Act and the Code of Law (587 d.b.) 5. Point Report and request of the Legal Affairs Committee on the draft federal law, with which the Notarial Regulations, the GmbH Act, the 2. COVID-19-Justice Act and the EIRAG are amended (588 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13598	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. Mr Mag. Mag has now been reported to speak. Philipp Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13625	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am a counter-voicer here, as we will not vote in favour of this law today. There are a lot of things inside that we also support, but we do not regard this law as a health measure, but above all as a saving measure. We think that the oral agreement, which is important to the court for the judgment, is also a special prevention for the accused or legally condemned. We do not believe that this special purpose can be achieved so well through audiovisual transmission. Therefore, we are in favour that, as soon as it is possible and where it is possible – courts have enough space, we often offer the opportunity to sit far enough apart – to return to public and immediate proceedings. This debate is also about two rental rights issues, and as a building speaker I would also like to comment on them. In principle, it is good to relieve the tenant in this difficult situation, but we must not lose sight of the relationship. We have already relieved the tenants very much and burdened the landlords very much. A large insurance company, a large bank may not be hurting, a small house owner, in which rent payments are paid for three out of six apartments, is probably already fighting for his own survival. We have to take care of this, and therefore we are voting against the requests made by my colleague Ruth Becher, because we think that, for example, we can now proceed to access the deposit – that is a deposit of the tenant with the landlord – and that, as soon as he can pay again, the tenant will have to fill up this deposit again. Mrs Bundesminister, I wish you all the best over the next few months. A happy Christmas and all the good, including you, colleagues! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13663	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Agnes Sirkka Prammer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13692	Again – yes, unfortunately again – it is necessary to extend regulations with which serious consequences of the pandemic are to be overcome. It is necessary because we are still in the middle of this health crisis. The rules that we have here today for the decision first of all bring reliefs for those people – we have just heard – who had to make use of the possibility of spending the rent in April, May, June. And no, no one will be in distress. It will be difficult, it will be as difficult as it is for everyone else, yes, of course, no question, but these rental rates have been very long behind and in the meantime new ones have become due, which can also be paid. This relief takes a lot of people’s fear of homelessness, especially in combination with the fact that even room executions should not now be carried out. However, fear is also taken from many people in a very different area, namely the people affected by violence in the family, because, as we have already heard today, the anti-violence institutions should keep the possibility of making applications for an interim order. This is a really great relief, a very essential step and a very great achievement for those people who are really bad anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Businesses in distress due to the economic crisis continue to be facilitated. For them, the possibility is extended that in the event of over-indebtedness no insolvency settlement must be made, because it is still not possible to draw up a valid survival forecast. To this end, I must make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[14:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13864	The amendment is sufficiently supported, it is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Ruth Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e13892	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Corona crisis calls for some extensions of deadlines and simplifications, such as video transmissions to the court for proof, extended time limits for insolvency proceedings or facilitated identification of notaries in the establishment of a GesmbH. These are provisions that make life easier for certain people in their professions, such as lawyers, entrepreneurs and so on. These provisions will be extended mainly by the end of June. But there are also people to whom this generous extension of deadlines has been forgotten. These include children of single mothers. We as SPÖ have been very surprised that the time limit for the facilitated enforcement in the maintenance advance is not up to 30. ==References== ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The corona virus makes no difference between people and professions, and I do not understand why ÖVP and Greens have so unevenly distributed these reliefs. That is why we are calling for equality, and I will then put forward an amendment to that effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the area of living it has been said during the crisis of the first lockdown, there are people who cannot pay their rent. These people didn't have to pay their rents the same way, but had up to the end of December, i.e. until the end of this month, time, plus 4 percent interest on default. Today's draft says that these people don't have to pay the rent back now, but only until March, again with 4 percent late interest. This is a bad solution from our point of view. ÖVP and Greens pretend they care about the people who cannot pay their rent, but they do not, because anyone who cannot pay his open rent until now can most likely not pay until March. I therefore ask: Why Help You are not directly delaying the problem and its consequences? These people need direct help, they need a safe living fund that comes in with the operating costs and traps hardships in the case of rent-backs. However, the government must also help with a rental fund, which mainly helps small landlords, and the landlords then solidly feed on this fund. Unfortunately, since the government has not yet reached any sensible solution on the subject of living, it will not achieve that by the end of March. By the end of June, she would have more time to think about it and make it. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition, with regard to the facilitated payment of maintenance advances, I have already explained this, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:32]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14081	Both amendments are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and are therefore also under negotiation. It is now Mr Mag. Klaus Fürlinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14108	High Bureau! Mr. Federal Minister! We must, or may, find that there is no disadvantage without any advantage, and if we get out of this great crisis, from this health crisis, combined with social Distancing, then, I believe, we also take a little positive. The positive thing is that we may no longer have to deal with some formal dates, some formal requirements by spending a lot of time in a variety of places, and spending a lot of miles back, but may simply be able to do some things digitally via a video conference in a short distance. That is what we now allow with this law in the extension and where we have to think on some points about whether or not we are somehow putting it into the permanent right – which we do very well with some of this package of laws. We allow associations to hold their urgently needed annual general meetings – and that was a big question at the beginning of this year – digitally. We allow meetings in company law, which can be held digitally, up to and including – we change the legal profession right – to the general meetings of the individual Bars, which can also be held in this way. A particularly important point, from my point of view, is that we can continue to hold the hearings in courts on a digital basis – this is a very crucial point, because we often drive 30, 40, 50 kilometres to a district court for a 15-minute date, in which only one third is agreed between two lawyers and the judge, how the procedure runs, what evidence is recorded and when it takes place. It is a particularly positive point of this innovation that this will continue to be possible. I do not hide that I share the scepticism of those who believe that evidence is not necessarily appropriate for this. In my opinion, the immediate impression of a witness or document to be heard will prevent this from happening. But I can already comfort those who report scepticism with the indication that the judges in this country know very well what is possible, and in practice implement it exactly as well and ask before whether it can be discharged digitally. Therefore: In practice no problem! It does not take place if the parties do not agree. I would also like to thank you, Mrs Minister, and the main committee, for having managed to pay the flat rate for the many procedural aids – 20 000 cases a year – which the lawyers provide for the people free of charge, this flat rate fee used for pensions, at last on the rate of 50 per cent, so that they will receive 21 million euros as a bill in the future. At the end of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the number of colleagues in front of me and also to table an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope everyone knows. – Thank you for the attention. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[14:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14232	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore also under negotiation. It is now Mr Mag. Felix Eypeltauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14259	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear citizens! The time limits we are talking about today also relate to the subject of rents, and we are unfortunately experiencing that in the government groups there is no such degree of economic understanding that we would need. I would like to explain to you two examples why I believe that this is so. tenants who couldn't pay their rent in the first lockdown get longer time for it. We have decided unanimously, and this is also important because it helps tenants who are particularly hard on the crisis for the first time. But there is one thing that – at the time as today – neither I nor experts nor practitioners understand: Why are the government fractions forbidding landlords who have a lease failure to get into the deposit if the life-stricken solution would be so simple? I explained it to you a few months ago, and I'll do it again because I still think it's right [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] The owner gets access to the deposit – at his own risk. This also saves the tenant 4 percent interest, which he otherwise has to cover at some point, at the latest when the deadline expires. Thus, a lease loss could be compensated unbureaucraticly and without unnecessary costs. Instead, the deposits are completely unused on the savings books at very low interest rates and are eaten up by inflation. Even the argument of the indictability of the deposit, which was made last time, does not draw, because if we, as legislators, manage to temporarily prohibit the indictability of rental interest, then of course we can do just as well at the deposit. – As so often, it is also in this case: Everyone who understands the economy has no understanding of what the government is doing. A second point where one sees that the government in the area of housing is simply lacking in proximity to life: We have all been looking for a solution to how temporary, expired leases can continue in the first months of the crisis. This was important, but there is no differentiation at all in the delay: He also helps those people who improperly neglect, damage, or massively destroy an apartment. That is exactly what the government groups are protecting! This doesn't mean a tenant who still has to endure noise at 4 o'clock in the early days or who has to fight through a dirty stairwell. This also doesn't help a tenant, it doesn't help a landlord, and it would be really important for you to look at things with solution expertise and close to life, rather than just with high-gloss marketing and with press conferences. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14302	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr.in Alma Zadić is now speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14329	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to speak here shortly on Agenda items 4 and 5. These are the amendments tabled by Mr Steinacker and Mr Prammer and are about the extension of selected covid measures in the field of justice. First and foremost, it is about helping people get out of this crisis. We know that Corona also has economic consequences for a large number of people – for entrepreneurs and consumers, for small and medium-sized enterprises – and we really need to consider measures. That is why I would like to give you a brief overview of the measures. Many things have already been mentioned, I would like to deal specifically with the right of residence, because that was also the subject of the debate. Due to the loss of income, tenants can be in arrears with their rent. Anyone who could not pay his rent in spring had the opportunity to repay it by the end of the year. But since we know that the Corona crisis lasts longer than we all love, we have this possibility with these requests until 31. ==References== That is to say, all those who have indebtedly leased residues from spring due to the Corona crisis now have the opportunity to repay them over a longer period of time. Still valid – and I would like to take up a few reports on the issue of security deposit –: Of course, if we were to say now that the landlords can automatically access the deposit, that would lead to an immediate call for this deposit to be filled up. This means that the tenant de facto has to pay the rent again. We would not create any relief for the tenants and the tenants by this law if we were to create this one-sided possibility of attacking the deposit now. However, there is probably a possibility to access the deposit, when tenants and landlords agree that the rest or the rental delay will be paid out of the deposit and therefore not automatically a filling obligation will be created. So it is very likely to access the deposit. As I said, however, this requires an agreement and must not cause filling. In addition, the application also includes other measures which are also relevant and important, such as the simplified submission of maintenance advances. The extension is therefore currently in the room because it has proved that one does not have to conduct an execution procedure before applying for a maintenance advance. We have also extended the exemption once again because it is important that women, single parents, who apply for a maintenance advance can make it very simple and unbureaucratic. There are two regulations that are provided for in this package, which we are putting into the permanent right, because they have proved themselves in practice. On the one hand, this is the possibility to establish the electronic notarial acts and to carry out certain notarial acts by electronic means. Furthermore, we have extended the possibility of simplified GmbH-foundation via the company service portal because we have seen that it has proven that simplified GmbH-foundations can now also be carried out electronically. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Justice for the constructive discussion that took place last week, and I would like to thank the officials of my home for preparing these measures. I hope, The measures will also be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14380	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of Agenda items 1 to 5. [[14:44:09]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 5
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14407	We shall now come to the vote on Agenda items 1 to 5, which I shall take separately from each item on the agenda. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if a session break is desirable. - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft law concerning hate-in-net combat law, in 481 of the supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and a motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Mr Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Stefan and a request for a separate vote by Dr Scherak. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 C 1 of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I ask those Members who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Mr Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 8 C 1 of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I ask those Members who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Mr Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning Rule. 8 Z 2 inserted. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on this subject. 8 Z 2 of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 8 C 4 of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 9 C 1 to 8 and 13 to 19 of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those who are for it to be a positive sign. – This is also unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Prammer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 9 Z29. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 10 C 1 and 6 of the draft law as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those mandates who are in favour of a positive sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Prammer, ladies and gentlemen, have a supplementary or amendment amendment relating to Art. 10 Z 12 and 13 as well as the insertion of a new Z 12a in Art. 10. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this sign to be accepted. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – adopted by a majority. Let us now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Selma Yildirim, colleagues on ‘Accompaniment to the effective effectiveness of legal remedies in relation to ‘ hating in the web’ for children and young people’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft law concerning a Federal Act establishing a Communication Platforms Act and amending the KommAustria Act, in 509 of the Supplements. Hiezu have Members of the Heavens, Mag. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Himmelbauer, Mag. Prammer, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment to Article 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Federal Act amending the Consumer Credit Act and the Mortgage and Real Estate Credit Act in 517 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Drobits, Dr. Margreiter, colleagues and a amendment tabled by Mr Ing. May. Mr Ripperberger, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendments, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Ing. May. Mr Tiefenberger, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 1 Z 5. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who stand for it to be a positive sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Drobits, Dr. Margreiter, colleagues and others have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 6. Whoever joins these changes, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Ing. May. We have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a directive, which is also in the form of amendments. 1 C 6. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I would ask those Members of the House who are here for the Committee's report. step in to a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Drobits, Dr. Margreiter, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those mandates who are here. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a positive sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: A draft federal law with which the 1. COVID-19-Justice Act, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers, the Company Law COVID-19 Act and the Code of Law, are amended in 587 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Mr Prammer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I will first of all vote on the parts concerned by the amendments referred to – and also here again following the classification of the draft law – and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Yildirim, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who are in favour of an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Prammer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft law concerning a federal law with which the notarial order, the GmbH-law, the 2. COVID-19-Justice Act and the EIRAG are amended in 588 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Becher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as well as an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Mr Prammer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Becher, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning Art. 3 Z 1 inserted. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Prammer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning Article 3, insertion of new points 1a, 1b and 3a and amendment to point 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. [[14:56:24]] 6. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (462 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Audiovisual Media Services Act, the KommAustria Act, the ORF Act and the Private Radio Act (510 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 968/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues with regard to a federal law that amends the Party Act 2012, the KommAustria Act, the Press Promotion Act 2004, the Journalistiksförderungsgesetz 1984 and the ORF Act (511 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 969/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, the Administrative Law COVID-19 Act and the Administrative Court Law 1985 (512 d.b.) 9. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Constitutional Act amending the COVID-19 Act on award (513 d.b.) 10. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 498/A by Mr Herbert Kickl, Members of Parliament on ministerial support pursuant to Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b against the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection Rudolf Anschober(514 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14840	We now come to points 6 to 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. These are reports and a report and request from the Constitutional Committee. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to congratulate you for the next few weeks. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Michael Schnedlitz has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e14877	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to run a corona test live during my speech, so you can see how worthless and misguided these mass testings are. This item on the agenda, however, is not essentially about the coronatests, but also about the ministerial support we have introduced against Mr. Health Minister Anschober. Ladies and gentlemen, as Members of Parliament today, you are almost the sworn ones, on the left side of me is the ministerial bank – even if it is not here – and the very honourable ladies and gentlemen. At home, the Austrians and Austrians, are the witnesses. The evidence is overwhelming in what one can put at the expense of the Minister of Health, but also of his palpane, the chancellor. In the case of the absolutely absurd mass testing which is currently being carried out, which is nothing but a large-scale redistribution of EUR 20 million of tax money from the population towards the pharmaceutical industry, to the restriction and sale of our rights of freedom, it cannot continue. Ladies and gentlemen, I am already in mass testing. I brought a test directly from a ministry with which the mass tests are also carried out, and for the “patients” – under quotation marks – commercial cola. I can now carry out the test in so far as I take Cola and order the test kit you also use for the mass test. [[The speaker tumbles a few drops of a brown liquid from a glass on a Covid-19 antigen test by means of cotton rods.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] – Yes, this test you bought with tax money – with more tax money than it would have been necessary to maintain the hacker’s pension – is a fool. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How worthless this test is, we will see at the end of my speech when the result is, ladies and gentlemen. They're talking about stupidity, paying for this to the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But continue in the text: Not only that you are seeking a large-scale redistribution from the taxpayer towards the pharmaceutical industry and co, through your unstructured lockdown, you have triggered corporate pleas, an economic crisis and a social crisis. They have destroyed existences, from family businesses to affected unemployed people. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You take our children's education, we've heard this today, and you're forcing our children to wear masks, although we now know that the masks in schools do not do anything at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They no longer treat countless patients and thus produce a health emergency that has some worse effects than the virus itself. You have so far failed to increase the capacity of the beds and staff to counter the crisis – you have not even begun to do so! Ladies and gentlemen! You have led our country into a dictatorship light and built such a one, you have taken the Austrian fundamental rights! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl, who repeatedly lifts the right arm.]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] – You are right, colleague of the ÖVP, that is incredible! You have taken the Austrians' rights of freedom: freedom to move freely, to see freedom, family and friends, but also freedom of expression. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have taken freedom of expression in that if someone is rightly critical of your actions, you are making the citizens, the Austrians and Austrians despicable! They are denoting the population as covidiotes, as a hazard, as an aluminium carrier, for example, when addressing the questionability of your tests and questioning the correctness of your tests. [[Call the ÖVP: on the matter!]] [[Abg. Hörl: Even the Hofer is ashamed!]] In concrete terms, the Minister of Health has also exceeded the framework entrusted to him in an illegal manner by making regulations which were not covered by law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The victims and victims of your behavior are the Austrians: destroyed existences, abused children, destroyed companies and the unemployed – a crisis that you have brought about that is similar to the one you are looking for. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the test result of your tax waste is now also available. [[The speaker keeps the Covid-19 antigen test up.]] I can say: Mr President, we should now have a problem, because we have a positive corona test in Parliament, because this cola has triggered a positive corona test. [[pointing to the glass with brown liquid standing at the speaker’s desk]] [[Call the ÖVP: You have a problem!]] I don't know how you deal with it now, but, ladies and gentlemen: With such things, you will throw twenty million euros of tax money out of the window instead of providing real protection for the old and care homes instead of finally investing money in our hospitals and not starving the health sector financially. Ladies and gentlemen, you have absolutely lost people's confidence, you have shown that you cannot lead our country through this crisis, but you have been driving our country exclusively against the wall. This test alone shows how ridiculous your actions and your policies are now – it must be paid by the Austrian taxpayer. If you have only a little backbone, ladies and gentlemen, then step back closed!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15013	Mr Melchior is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15035	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I wanted to refer to the AVMD Directive, but now I would like to say something to Mr Schnedlitz about the liberals: I really don't understand what you're doing there – I've been hoping that this isn't a Coke, but Bacardi Cola, that would have somehow apologised for your behavior. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But I can't understand one thing at all: From the very beginning, the Freedom Party has not helped to improve the situation we currently have, even in the worst possible way – and now you are still talking the tests badly and talking about the measures badly. Keep up with the measures sometime, then it would be a lot better! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] You have great panic that new elections will come and even make broadcasts. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where? Where's an broadcast?]] - I'll tell you one thing: You can relax quietly, there will be no new elections! We are here for the Austrians, we are committed, we see that measures are being taken and that human lives are being saved – it would be totally great if you could even get in! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Nobody has the intention of calling new elections!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] In fact, we are dealing with the AVMD directive – a really very useful issue – which we are getting on the way today. Everyone can remember how it used to be: There have been FS1 and FS2, and you have been able to decide whether to look at “wets that..?” or not. If that wasn't the case, sometime in the evening you heard the German anthem, then there was the test picture and it was over. In the meantime, there is a very different situation, there are dozen private channels, there are streaming services and mass, and for these there is a need for a framework, and there is a need for competitiveness. In order to ensure this, some things have been set in motion. I would like to make a few points. This concerns, for example, the issue of accessibility, so that television stations are invited to take measures to enhance accessibility. The ORF is even obliged to increase the percentage of barrier-free content each year. These are some important measures, I am convinced. [[Call to the FPÖ: Here you wish the Nehammer again, don't you?]] The second point, which is also important, concerns youth protection. This is about ensuring that certain content available via streaming services is not accessible to minors. In addition, a complaint system is introduced to ensure that illegal content or similar information can be reported quickly on these platforms. I would like to thank our coalition partner very much at this point: Thank you for the good negotiations on this. I am pleased when this directive comes into force! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15119	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15140	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know who told you that we wanted new elections – no, certainly not! What you've done now, you've got to do it yourself, you're gonna have to do it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the accusation that we would not be involved in all the measures: We participate in everything that is prescribed – we must stick to it – especially in those things that are reasonable. However, we have always been reasonable in the families, we have always acted with our own responsibility regarding infectious diseases and we have also survived them, including our children. I think you should take into account the effectiveness and legality of the measures and prove them, and you do not! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That you are here about the mass tests and this attempt to alter – na please: 566 000 people have participated so far, of which 2 000 are positive during the first test. Well, half was wrong positive, that is, you pulled a few hundred people out of traffic, as you call it. This is the completely wrong strategy, this attempt to eradicate infectious disease, which does not work – we must live with the virus as we have already learned to live with various other infectious diseases and viruses! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, and in order to reach the item on the agenda of the ministerial set-aside: The whole thing is not in order, either, because one can only put in place proportionate, objectively justified measures, whose effectiveness will then be proved – all this has not yet been delivered! The occasion for the ministerial support was the general ban on public places by the Minister of Health's regulation in spring. That was not covered by law, was illegal, that is the objective side of action. It wasn't a question of anything, I mean, people have been locked up – that is, we all – because people have lost their jobs, have suffered significant income losses, and children have not gone to school. That was illegal. The subjective action page is about a purpose to blame. I assume that the Minister of Health has at least negligently taken it into account that this is an illegal measure – because the alternative would be that he did not understand that he was breaking the law with the regulation, and that would be even less flattering now. So that's the first thing, there was an illegal, guilty measure. After that came the Ostererlass, he was withdrawn and is now history. However, one has noticed the intention and is voting on it, because without any legal basis – not only in breach of this, but without a legal basis – private meetings should be regulated at all, and this should be even more transparent by decree. Even there it is more flattering for the Minister of Health, I think, if you say he has taken it and knew that it is illegal, because otherwise he would not have understood it. So I don't want to live with that. In summer, the VfGH knowledge came, and many measures have been repealed. Everyone in the Federal Government – including the Minister of Health – should now know how to proceed in accordance with constitutional law. It is necessary to formulate the legal bases clearly, concretely and with sufficient determination and it must be understandable when the measures take effect when fundamental rights intervention begins. The whole need to be limited to the most necessary cases in time, personal and material, to be checked daily and to be withdrawn immediately if it is not necessary. The sustainable effectiveness must be demonstrated; this is particularly interesting at the moment, because this is already the second lockdown in autumn. Is this measure sustainablely effective? It also needs a balance of interest, one can not only focus on the corona virus, only on the sick bed, only on the intensive bed, if the collating damage is already stormed around the right and left. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The reason why we're talking about this ministerial note is not just oppositionism, but it goes on, it's a permanent offence that you're doing so wrong. We now have the COVID-19 emergency regulation, the second general lockdown, we have a legal basis, but that does not mean that it is legal, because it needs the objective justification, proportionality and effectiveness. To this end, I would like to say something: The Minister of Health is not there, he is like me from Upper Austria, and I have looked at the fourth week of November there: unfortunately 133 dead, in which Corona is so to speak. On life expectancy, which is again comforting, it is to say that the average death age was 81.8 years, and thus even a little above the other life expectancy. 131 of the 133 had prediseases – from which you can already see a little for whom the corona virus is really dangerous. Most of them come from the old-age and care homes, infected people came to the hospital from there and, of course, needed intensive beds. That's what you're thinking: If really only old people are affected when the largest risk group, as we now know, comes from the old age and nursing homes and you have not managed to protect this risk group in nine months, but unfortunately the lockdown for all is also disproportionate, because these people were never on the road. It is therefore a permanent offence, so to speak, and therefore we insist on the Prime Minister's contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15231	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to refer briefly to Agenda items 6 to 10 on the part of my group. I would like to start with item 10 of the ministerial loan. I think it is right to call for political and legal responsibility, it is also right to demand clarification, just as far as the time is concerned, our opinions differ, Mr Schnedlitz. I believe that it is right and clear that, after fighting the pandemic, the responsibility is clarified. That is why, my group, we do not think that this is the right time for ministerial funds at the moment. That is why we have also agreed to this negative committee report in the form. We think, like you, that information is necessary – but not at this time. With regard to parliamentary cooperation: On agenda items 7 to 9, we see that it is important to extend covid measures. We need that, we need these covid measures, it needs to be worked. In particular, in view of the two-thirds majority required by these constitutional laws, which deal with communication opportunities for the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court, I believe that we must work together, and that these laws must also be adopted, because they are important so that these important instruments of parliamentary democracy can also continue to work. It is equally important that Agenda item 9: that we give and integrate certain possibilities in the Procurement Act; this was not granted in time. The Administrative Court now has the opportunity to carry out the activities in the sense of this communication on a permanent basis, which will be adapted to the provisions of the Constitutional Court. Finally, item 6 on the implementation of the EU Audiovisual Communication Directive. We have rejected this, for the following reasons: because we believe that this directive has been used too little to protect consumers, especially in the area of consumer protection, when it comes to our young consumers, it is too little and in principle too little protection for children and young people. We also believe that accessibility, which is required in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled, is not implemented accordingly – and is also too little. And also as far as the law on hatred on the web that we decide today is concerned, we believe that there is too little in it and there is a need for improvement. That is why we have rejected this item on the agenda in committee. The positions on agenda items 6 to 10 are therefore clear. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15298	Mr Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15320	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Before I come to audiovisual media, one more word to Mrs. Prince, who says we must live with the virus: As you act, we will die with the virus! That's the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] If you were to assume a little reason, it would be good, because then we didn't have to die with the virus. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Prince]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Naughty!]] So take yourself by your own nose and think about what a fool you are doing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] [[Abg. Hafenecker:... the masks on once!]] But now to the Audiovisual Media Services Act, to which I actually want to speak: Mr Melchior has already mentioned this, and I would also like to say at this point that the basis for implementing a directive has been the implementation of it. We have jointly found a way between the accusation of gold plating and the exclusive implementation of the directive over a considerable period of time, including involving many opinions. My previous speaker said: too little, too little, too little! – I know the SPÖ is always too little, but you have had a long time to do something, and just as far as accessibility is concerned, you haven’t done anything. We have done something, and that is much more than the directive. Accessibility is a very central area and affects all audiovisual media, especially video-sharing platforms and everything that is so to speak in this area. On the other hand, we have tried to get rid of smaller media companies, which act, so to speak, especially in the arts and culture sectors and cannot really implement all these things, because they simply have too little money or are too small, or the football club, which is once filming the Youth Championship, to a large extent. What is also a very important point for us is the increase in European formats in terms of film and other products. Thus, even at Netflix, 30 percent of products will have to be European productions in the future. I believe that this is a start to the fact that the European film and television sector, I say now, is being strengthened in the field of production. I have already mentioned accessibility. Another area that is central to this implementation of the Directive is the simple language. The point is that it is understandable, simple language, for those who may not be able to share with the linguistic, which unfortunately is used very often. This is especially true of events such as the terrorist attack on 2nd. It is very central in November that there is also rapid information in this area. Maybe as a conclusion: Another area is the whole issue of advertising and promotion for fat and sweet foods, especially before children's broadcasts. There will also be a restriction. As I said, we have found a golden middle between consumers on the one hand and the economy on the other, as I find, and I am pleased that we will adopt this law. In addition, I believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15393	Mrs Federal Minister Edtstadler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15420	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! First of all, I would like to comment on TOP 6, on the AVMD Directive, and also say that I can represent the Federal Chancellor in the House today in this function. He was with me in the Constitutional Committee when it came to this point. Unfortunately, he cannot take part in this meeting – and that is also quite explicitly said, because, at the present hour, the question has been raised as to why he is not here – because he flew to Brussels in the early days. The European Council is taking place today, today and tomorrow, and there are a whole series of very, very important decisions on how we are progressing in Europe. That's where the AVMD Directive fits well. This is an example of how to work together in Europe. This also concerns exactly what has been criticised by some in the agenda items on hatred on the network and on the communication platform law: that we do not wait for the European directive or regulation. In this case, it is an EU directive that we are implementing, and we are implementing it as one of the first Member States. I already know that it is relatively late to include the deadline for implementation, but only Denmark and Sweden have done so far. I can also add one: The fact that provisions on videos are not included in the Communication Platforms Act is due to the fact that the AVMD Directive concerns video sharing platforms, and that is why we have not entered them into the Communication Platforms Act. Much has already been said in terms of content. I should like to point out what honourable Member and Secretary-General Axel Melchior and now also Mr Blimlinger said about this. It is about creating accessible access, it is about maintaining the diversity of the media in Austria, yes, it is also about extending the provisions on the protection of young people. I think that is something that should always be done in a very balanced way when implementing directives. We do not want gold plating, but we want to implement the directive in such a way that we can, of course, achieve precisely these requirements and these agreed European objectives. To TOP 7 and 8: When it comes to extending covid measures, I would just like to make a few points. We all hoped when we presented them in March, when you, too, decided here in the House in great agreement in spring that the pandemic had survived by the end of the year. This is not the case, and if you look around in Europe, you see that all the states of the European Union are in the middle of the second wave and are fighting against it. It is therefore important to extend these measures, but there is also a sunset clause, so that there is a time when they will come back to force. It has been mentioned by the Drobits Member that today there is a need for a two-thirds majority, because it is also a matter of things which are laid down in the federal constitution, for example the possibility of taking decisions in the Council of Ministers with video conferences, which can be life-saving and also necessary to stay in touch at the time of the pandemic. That is why I would like to expressly thank you at this point even now, in advance, and in the hope that it will happen this way too, for your support by a large majority. However, there are also a few things to be incorporated into the permanent right, and at the request of the Administrative Court today, an amendment will be tabled so that, in the case of special, exceptional circumstances, some things can actually be decided in the form of video conferences, and, indeed, in a lively democracy, we resolve some uncertainties, for example, when it comes to maintaining the presence quories for voting in this form. Overall, the measures that are necessary. We really have good reason to thank both the administration and the judicial system – and I can also thank the Minister for Justice here formally – for the fact that despite these extraordinary circumstances everything has continued so well, the Republic has worked, the administration and the judicial system have continued to work. We and you, as representatives of the Sovereign, of the State, have all contributed to bringing the framework conditions in place accordingly. Thank you also from this point on to all those who have worked on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15475	Mrs Brandstötter has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15496	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear citizens at home in front of the screens, especially you at home in front of the screens! It is currently about whether you can use quality media in the future in Austria, which research and report independently critically and independently. This is not according to the gusto of our government. In our neighboring country Hungary, Prime Minister Orbán urged the media. He made this very clear, thereby also creating open resistance, creating a lot of friction and also throwing a flashlight on it. He was successful, but more successful will be Sebastian Kurz. That makes it much smarter, he simply buys the media. To date, the advertising volume alone of the Federal Government was significantly higher in times of non-crisis with 20 million euros than in Germany. The German government – Germany is ten times the size of Austria – is spent at EUR 15 million a year in non-crisis times to inform its citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] Here's where you think: Why don't you knock? – You just sent two alerts to the start. On the one hand, a creative agency for the next four years is being sought, which develops various things for 30 million euros, creative achievements, including logos, perhaps a funny mascot, to communicate the best of both worlds. Because one also has to tell mankind about its fantastic ideas, one has a second call for proposals at the start. This also covers four years. In this case, three lead agencies will be sought to hold for – please! – 180 million euros of ads, banners and posters. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Over the next four years, 180 million euros will be juxtaposed and cheered up to book ads and similar. That's 45 million euros per year. In future, we will be happy with government advertising of 45 million euros. With this, this government is the largest advertising that Austria has ever seen. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I once imagined how to imagine the life of Mr and Mrs Österreicher in the future in this beautiful new world of communication. Together with media planning experts, I have created a media plan – I like to make it available to you as well; you save a few million euros again – and asked: [[towards ÖVP]] What do you get for this money? Among other things, you will receive 1 176 television spots per week for 30 seconds, justly distributed between ORF and private people. 1 176 spots, that's almost 36,000 seconds, that's 10 hours of commercials a week. But there are up to four press conferences daily with live broadcasts not yet included. The government can also buy 60 full-page ads in daily newspapers every week. I don't know if you know how many newspapers there are actually in Austria. It is necessary to interpret the concept over regionally very generously, so that each daily only contains one government page per week. You can also cover Austria throughout Austria with an ever-increasing poster campaign, every two weeks new to 3,500 locations throughout the country. In addition, there are also radio advertising, advertising in social networks and, of course, in Google search. So you have to work hard to spend a lot of money on this. That's why you're wondering, of course: For what? What's this whole propaganda for? What and who do you want to control? But that's not enough for you. They also create a construction so that as a parliamentary opposition we cannot understand how much money actually flows to where. Publicly, only the orders to the so-called lead agencies are public. What they do with the money to whom they pass on orders, every parliamentary control escapes, and that is outrageous. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I also know why you're doing that. Surprisingly, with the many requests I made on these issues, it turned out that there were people from the ÖVP environment who received orders, often also orders for which they are totally unqualified. As a strategy consulting company suddenly makes graphics, a party-related advertiser is suddenly a sustainability expert and gets orders for it. [[Abg. Hörl:... a Baldrian!]] With your insolent advertising budget, you weaken the media landscape in Austria instead of running reasonable media policy. This is now also the paint must test for the greens. Are you part of this propaganda machine or not? I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[15:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15638	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mrs Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15662	Mr President. High house! Two comments on my previous speakers: First of all, Mrs. von den NEOS, dear Henrike! Where are you now? [[Abg. Fire brigades have that hand.]] - Dear Henrike! Ten years ago, we were together at the ÖVP Vienna and fought together against the SPÖ's information policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brills]] At that time, what was spent on advertising in Vienna was still too much for you. Today, by NEOS, you agree to the SPÖ advertising budgets without any cancellations, without a single cut-off. Let's write this into the main book! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] Mr Schnedlitz! An antigen test isn't there to keep him in the Colaglass. An antigen test is there to make either a stroke of the throat or a nostril. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Why is a nose strip usually made? – Because no falsification is possible in the case of a nose strip. If you make a rush, you won't be allowed to drink for half an hour. But it's a part of your policy again: Insurance, insurance, insurance. [[Abg. Singer: This is your job!]] Take responsibility for the Republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervening calls from Members Amesbauer and Hafenecker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I would also like to say something positive about the opposition now. The Federal Minister mentioned this earlier, and we also have a point in this package of laws, which we are now discussing, concerning the Administrative Court: We are able to make very special provisions for exceptional circumstances, and this is not only for this situation, not just for a limited period of time, but for permanent law. The SPÖ has also said yes and I would like to express my thanks for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore come to the request made by Mrs Prince on 28 November. ==References== So it's been more than half a year since, now you can say, okay, on 28. April – ah, no doctor – Klubobmann Kickl didn't want to give Mr. Anschober a political success, because everyone was still convinced that we really need to reduce contacts. So, that was on 28 May. April. In the In the meantime, the Constitutional Court has made more than 100 decisions, with 80 of these covid cases being considered correct and only 20 of them being withdrawn. In these 80s, many of the applicants have also withdrawn, i.e. in 80 percent of the cases, the measures taken by the Ministry of Health were positive and correct. [[Call the SPÖ: Congratulations!]] Mr Schnedlitz could have said now that he is drawing up the proposal from 28. April back, because it's no longer up-to-date today. No, he wants to maintain him, because it's about political success, because he's looking at a politician of another party in the faith of being able to cross himself. No, Mr Schnedlitz, we do not recognize the population. In a pandemic one has to stand together and hold together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: And that's why... police control in the private sector...! ... Cooperation...!]] It is precisely this point that we are living in a rule of law and that we are using an instrument based on state jurisdiction. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Cooperation!]] You are proposing that Mr Anschober be torn to the Constitutional Court and that he be subject to the state jurisdiction there, because you state that he would have committed a culpable conduct. No one in Austria believes that in April of this year he has done something guilty against Austrian laws and against the Austrian population. Only you want a political success, no, you'll be at a level like you did once when you started a house search in the BAT. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: That was the ÖVP!]] That was the same level, which was declared illegal, and then you try again to use a constitutional instrument in an illegal application. This is not the way we behave in a rule of law. Let this be written in the main book!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15819	Mrs Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15841	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, to the main part: We, as has already been said, create a very important and, above all, permanent opportunity for the Administrative Court to conduct public negotiations also via video conference and, above all, a very important instrument, we give the opportunity to present to the Administrative Court documents already digitalised by the authorities in a digital way. It is actually a matter of course in the present time, it has not been possible so far, now it is. The Administrative Court expressly endorses this possibility, it is a very important and correct solution. On the ministerial note: A ministerial anchorage is a very, very essential parliamentary control instrument. They stand here in the High House, organize a spectacle with food and not least with important, valuable and urgently needed antigen fast tests, making any sense-free chemical experiments. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That's how you want to justify a ministerial loan? But that's not You serious? [[Call:Probably 40 000 tests have been left]] But, well, originally, it was very serious and also seriously justified, although we do not consider it to be comprehensible. What you have created is a decree that you say was illegal, of which the Constitutional Court also said it was illegal. But what you've either forgotten or I've missed the reason or you haven't actually done it: An offense is only a sin if it happens guilty. You cannot justify this, of course, because it is not possible for the Minister of State to decide a regulation which does not comply with the law. How do you know that you could find any indication for this? Where are you from? Why do you misuse this valuable instrument by justifying and executing it in this way? In fact, it has been examined which measures are necessary. It was examined by the Constitutional Court. We then saw – and I have already done so – how well-founded all further regulations have been. This is why, in the present case, a ministerial loan is completely missing and therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15886	Mr Singer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15908	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to begin by replicate the speech by Mr Schnedlitz, who spoke in his speech of a "dictatur light". I would like to point this out. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr President, I would ask you to check whether this term should not have been called for an order. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We have already – and I can therefore return to the agenda – discussed temporary corona special arrangements several times. A number of such decisions are also necessary for the agenda items in question, namely the decision-making of an extension by the middle of 2021. What exactly is it about? – It is about the use of video technology in administrative procedures and administrative courts, and about restrictions on the movement of parties while safeguarding party rights. It should continue to be possible to exclude certain periods by regulation from the limitation periods if this appears necessary to prevent the spread of the corona virus. Another requested amendment concerns the Federal Constitutional Act. This will allow, among other things, collegial bodies of the municipalities such as municipal councils or councillors by the end of June 2021 to take decisions by video conferencing or in circulation, only if exceptional circumstances exist. The background to this possibility is that communities can continue to carry out their tasks, for example, in order to promote projects or to continue or terminate procedures within the meaning of citizens. Some communities had to make use of this possibility. So there are already some first experiences from this. As in all other areas of society, we should also consider whether procedures we have applied in the course of the pandemic should also have a place in the future. As mayor, for example, I can imagine that, under certain conditions, meetings of the municipal council could also be held alternatively by video conference. I am more reticent at municipal council meetings, for which there is a possibility for citizens to participate. Of course, transparency must be guaranteed. For example, the country of Upper Austria has currently decided that, to the extent that meetings of collegial bodies are public, it is necessary to ensure that these meetings can be followed via live stream on the Internet or in any other appropriate way. And again, because it's important to me: All of this, of course, requires a high level of transparency, and it must not be restricted. Ladies and gentlemen! We must now create framework conditions in order to be able to handle the time of the pandemic as best as possible. However, we should also consider what positive aspects of this we want to take into account in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15965	Mr Bürstmayr is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e15986	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I would like to talk to you about the beautiful Jewish word Chuzpe. You've been talking a pandemic since she's been in this world! They are impoverished by a disease that has now cost 4,000 people in Austria alone! They give the advice not to be tested before Christmas before visiting their relatives. You are right where you can only oppose any measure to curb this pandemic! [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's not true!]] They organize in this house in complete physico-chemical apathy pseudoexperiments on this stage. They disavow the most important scientist in this field in the German language region, Christian Drosten. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, exactly!]] And you want to tear the Minister of Health before the Constitutional Court.– This, ladies and gentlemen, is Chuzpe! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] And because you may still not have understood the meaning of this word, I can translate it to you: a third insolence. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16057	I have received the minutes of Mr Schnedlitz's statement: “Dear ladies and gentlemen! You have led our country into a dictatorship light and built such a one, you have taken the Austrian fundamental rights!” – For that I give you an order call. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The vote will be taken at the end of the negotiations as set out in the agenda. [[15:45:50]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 260/A(E) by Mrs Petra Bayr, Mr MA MLS, on the presentation and parliamentary monitoring of the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in Austria (515 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16106	We are now coming to Agenda item 11. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Jeitler-Cincelli is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16133	Mr. President! Dear Women Ministers – now there are two! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would now like to refer briefly to the previous item on the agenda. Mr Amesbauer, because you looked so confused earlier: Of course, your colleague said you should not be tested before Christmas. I have the feeling that with this cola test here in front is so the league of the testosterone-controlled crown prince of Mr. Kickl who is bubbling for the favor, who probably gets better out and eventually gets to the row.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16155	Please take back the word “testosterone controlled”! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16170	I take that back, of course. Maybe there are a few ladies, I don't know, many are no longer left, maybe a few can influence that see that we are in a special situation where it would be important for the whole society to work together and not to be divided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Now to the actual point: The topic I want to talk to today is the SDGs. We now have the opportunity to create an important implementation step in the implementation of the SDGs in the Austrian Parliament. The People's Party has appointed me SDG spokesman, and I am very pleased about this new task. I see my role here in Parliament in this area as being binding beyond political boundaries, in the sense of the Sustainable Development Goals as they are meant. Why did I take it? - I have this color wheel with me. I think it describes exactly what this pin also describes: It's joyous, it's diverse, it's colorful, it's unifying, it's a cross-sectional matter, and my political priorities are exactly what I see in it at the moment. With economic policy, environmental policy and foreign policy, there are many issues that we can deal with across borders. For me, it is also a future radar and a great opportunity for our domestic companies. What are the SDGs? . I brought this with me now, as my colleague asked earlier: [[a poster on which the SDGs are displayed, holding in height]] What's the matter with you? I have come to believe that many of us have no idea what these 17 fields mean, where they come from and what they stand for. So: 17 goals, 169 targets, 193 UN states signed them. We have answers, we are together looking for answers to environmental, social and economic challenges in the globalized world of our time. The aim is to: To create peace, to secure prosperity worldwide, to eliminate inequalities, to live a new global partnership and to protect our planet. How do we implement this 2030 agenda, as it is called? – Astrid Rössler and I were allowed to participate in an online panel discussion recently – initiated by the Ban Ki-moon Centre – and Sir Ban Ki-moon mentioned the importance of national parliaments in the implementation of these objectives. We have now also succeeded in formulating a common proposal. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the fact that this has really become a five-party proposal, which says that the whole House has taken a step forward, that we in Parliament now have the opportunity to discuss progress on a regular basis. My wish would be to do so in a respectful, appreciative, positive and joyful manner in the area. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I want us to try and build bridges here, including all target groups. Mrs. Minister, dear Karoline, thank you for your efforts in this area and for making a very clear commitment to the government! Thanks also to the interministerial working group, which has already been involved here, to our President and his alternates, who will give us the framework and, hopefully, also the resources to become active there and to actively bring this agenda into Parliament. Today, I declare an invitation to all those who want to cooperate. We will be a working group so that everyone can participate in this process, which is the first step in a journey. I also invite you to cooperate across the party borders so that we can become bridge builders and ambassadors. There are so many issues where, I think, we have the same objectives, we only have different approaches. I have recently experienced this in a joint discussion with colleagues from other political groups. I think we sometimes need more understanding for each other, more exchange, more discourse. The SDGs, I think, are a very wonderful form for this. Let us make these SDGs a leading theme both for this coalition and for the cooperation of all the political groups in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16249	Mr Amesbauer on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16276	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. They have issued a call for order to MP Schnedlitz on the grounds that he used the term “dictatur light”. They also argued that he spoke of a restriction on fundamental and freedom rights. If you grant orders not only if the dignity of the house has been violated or someone has been insulted – there they are perfectly appropriate and in order – but because of a statement of opinion, a value, then this is extremely problematic, Mr President. This should also give some thought to the other clubs, especially in view of the fact that you are taking a decision here with an amendment for tomorrow, without consideration and so on, with the content of the fact that the police may now also go to private budgets to carry out checks in order to carry out police action. This is an absolute taboo! [[==References====External links== Pfurtscheller.]] We have a President, who is obliged to be extra-participation and here, because of a statement of opinion, gives a call for order. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] I hope that this will also be discussed in the Presidency and that we will also have support from the other clubs, because if we start by speaking in a free speech here as a Member, in the exercise of his free mandate, we can no longer express our opinion freely, then we must once again doubt your objectivity, Mr President. Very briefly – and this is perhaps interesting for colleagues too, because this fits quite well on the subject of this lack of objectivity, which you prove here in the presidency again and again: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] In one of the articles “Politics Backstage by Josef Votzi”, the speech is about “Sobotkas Top-Secret-Offensive against Kickl”. That was the day when we took the meeting because of the terrorist attack on the 2nd day. ==References== In your capacity as President of the National Council, you have invited journalists to a background discussion, which was a secret – it is probably part of the Presidency and the objectivity of the President – where you have said that it must not even go outside that the meeting has taken place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] The only purpose was to adapt an opposition politician, Herbert Kickl. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I call on you to protect and not sabotage your free speech and free expression in the sense of the Rules of Procedure and in the sense of the free mandate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16363	I have quoted the Minutes of Mr Schnedlitz's statements. His speech contains the dignity of the house infringing a “dictatur light”. This is not a situation of opinion, it is a finding. We are living in a democracy, and this is the highest organ of the people's representation, which is a representative of democracy and not a dictatorship. That is why I have called for an order. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: Completely right, Mr President.]] Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16403	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We could now connect to the SDG 16 – strong institutions, access to law – but in general: It is good that we as Parliament are now getting under way. The SDGs were decided in 2015 that we should actually achieve these objectives in 2030. That means a third of the time is already around. It is therefore very high time that we as Parliament do something for this, because it is necessary for it to be complex. Challenges, complex problems, as well as complex answers and problem-solving solutions, we will not do so in the form we are currently doing. I am not only referring to us here in the Austrian Parliament, but also to the United Nations, to the European Union, to all the ministries that think in Silos. We think and work in committees. We should exchange much more with each other, because this can be a really fertilizing discussion. It is fine that the government parties have also followed my request that we could now agree on a joint request. I might explain what is important to me to take into account when, in 2021, we find a way to involve Parliament: I believe that the SDGs must be discussed in all committees, because everyone can have a concrete reference to this. It would be important to have both retrospective reports from the ministries in the committees and project reports, so that it is clear who is doing what. It needs a clear and publicly accessible overview: Who is responsible for what purpose, nationally and internationally? What are Austria's objectives for this? In what period? With what means? – All of this would be something that would make the achievement a little clearer where we could better bring ourselves as a house. Maybe as a conclusion: This morning, the Albanian Parliament called for a round table to deal with what they can do in the Albanian Parliament to implement the SDGs. They have used a brochure of the Interparliamentary Union in which it is a self-esteem tool, by which you can imagine, as Parliament, what potential you have and what you have to do. What I found particularly cool was that today, in the morning, the chairmen and representatives of all committees were invited – they also have their own SDG committee, which was, of course, also represented there – as well as government members and other stakeholders. I believe that sometimes countries such as Albania or the Czech Republic could be taken as models when it comes to the SDGs – they are really good at it – to get ideas from them, as it is about including parliaments in the implementation. I am ready for every cooperation in the good cause and look forward to it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16445	For business treatment: Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16471	Mr President. I think that Mr Haubner would have been in front of me if I had been right in mind.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16487	I'm sorry, I didn't see that and didn't realize it. Sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16502	Following the speech on the business management of Mr Amesbauer: I give you the right, in so far as I also would not have chosen the formulation “dictatur light”. But one must also see: It is not personally insulting, no one was personally devalued. It is a political assessment, perhaps overly well formulated, and I think that, even if one does not personally share the opinion, it must be kept in the house that the debate is getting worse. That is why I can't understand the call for order, because it wasn't a person's degradation and insult.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16537	Member of the Committee of the Regions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16562	Mr President. I would like to predict that I do not share the contents of the colleague's speech, nor do I have the feeling or the impression that there is something here in the direction of dictatorship or “dictatur light”. However, I also believe that, as Mr Loacker said, it must be legitimate in a Parliament to warn against development if it is perceived as carrying certain traits of a possible dictatorship. As I said, I do not share this opinion in any way, but I do not see in it any personal insult or desavowing, but rather the giving of a political position. I would therefore ask you to reconsider this call for order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16592	For business treatment: Mr Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16616	Mr President. The Austrian federal constitution has very few principles, and a principle of the Austrian federal constitution is that of democracy. [[Call the FPÖ:The ÖVP also!]] [[Call the FPÖ: These are more principles than you have!]] And whoever doubts the fundamental principles of our federal constitution and believes that we are already acting here in this country according to a dictatorship, has really crossed borders! [[Abg. Krisper: freedom of expression!]] I therefore believe it is important that we distinguish ourselves from such formulations, that we distinguish ourselves from such tendencies, and that we do not invoke such tendencies, because we oppose ourselves with hands and feet. We live in a rule of law, and it is important that we defend it and not other tendencies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16671	As this expression has fallen as we have just changed in the Presidency, I have had the minutes come because I always want to think twice before and very often do not give a spontaneous call for order, but only one in retrospect. I am, of course, in favour of this because I have also thought about it, and I have, I think, clearly justified it. I think it has not been described as a dictatorial act or a dictatorship, but as a dictatorship. I can explain this again. But we can also discuss this in the Presidency. [[Call the FPÖ: Tell us what else we can say, that might be easier!]] Mrs Edtstadler spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister for Constitutional Affairs, I would like to remind you at this point, and precisely in the light of this discussion, that today is the day of human rights. Human rights were created by committed people at a time when the atrocities of the Second World War were just behind the generation in order to prevent such a thing from repeating. In this context, and because we are now also talking about the SDGs, I would like to say that we have created a broad basis in Europe, which is beyond the European Union, because it was the precursor of the European Union, a parallel structure, namely the Council of Europe, which now sets out 47 Member States in total. And on this basis of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, where we hope we have overcome dictatorship once and for all, we now also want to continue working with the 17 SDGs to go into a good future. In order to do this, Austria has today submitted the first National Voluntary Report on the implementation of the United Nations – an even larger, even more comprehensive international organisation and a large number of Member States. We're all pulling a strand here. The presentation was in July, I was allowed to perform it for the Austrian Federal Government. I can also say at this point that there were many employees in the Federal Chancellor's Office, even before the time when I was allowed to become a Federal Minister in the house, who worked on bringing together the success stories, developing best practice models and laying down in a report to develop innovations for other areas, to develop ideas. I would particularly like to see the head of department Mag at this point. Thanks to Schneeberger for this incredibly great work. It is a report which is available in two languages and which we have also presented to the Austrian Parliament. And because the presentation just fell into the time of the pandemic, it was a presentation only in a virtual way. I believe that this report deserves much more attention, and therefore I would also like to continue the discussion here in the House with you as Members. I want us to push forward this broad involvement of many stakeholders, that we work together to achieve these goals in a piece by piece. The most important chapter for this – we have already discussed it in many committees; I look at Mrs Jeitler-Cincelli, I look at Mrs Rössler – is the prospect chapter, these objectives are. The interministerial working group will now set up a steering group. Why? – So that you can make a prioritisation here so that you really know what you want to achieve in what way at any time. A total of three, actually four, priorities are: It is about women and youth, it is about leaving no one behind, it is about climate change and climate change adaptation reactions. and it's about digitization – it could not be more up-to-date. I would like to talk to you together in many events, discussions that go into the population, because this is also a social task that we all need to solve together and can only solve together. In this sense, the honourable Member has pointed out: There was already an event together with the Ban Ki-moon Centre and the Federal Chancellery. I am convinced that there will still be many such events, and I can now very cordially invite you to take an active part in this process, which will last for years but will be worthwhile. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16759	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16781	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! The Global Sustainable Goals – today's proposal aims at further treatment, further implementation of the global sustainability targets or a certain way forward. What are these global sustainability objectives? – They are not really as well known in Austria as they would deserve, they are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals 2015 to 2030. A third of these we have already consumed, ten years still remain to pursue these 17 goals with commitment. It's an action plan. It was decided in September 2015 by the General Assembly of the United Nations and has now been signed by 193 governments. Austria has also already declared itself very early, 2016, with a Council of Ministers lecture. This action plan serves the people, the earth and prosperity. What are these global sustainability objectives to achieve? – One of these has already been debated prominently today, it is the sustainability objective five: Elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls. So equality and discrimination, which is explicitly one of these objectives. These objectives serve people: a life in a healthy environment, against poverty and hunger, access to clean water, health, education. These objectives serve the earth: sustainable and environmentally sustainable use, protection and preservation of diversity, seas and also the fight against climate change. And in the end, the goals are for prosperity: to be able to live a full life, to have a full life, to participate in economic, social and technical progress; the objective of twelve – sustainable consumption and production patterns – is one of them. The implementation, as it is to be decided here today, means that these 17 objectives will be repressive to success. It is a cross-sectional matter that Parliament may be involved, civil society, NGOs, science, the economy. Perhaps or probably we will not be able to achieve all these 17 goals, all the more so today, we need this first step in implementation. This requires persistence and the conviction that many small contributions, many small steps by 2030, can make great progress. – 17 goals for a better world.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16818	Mrs Salzmann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16844	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! We've heard a lot about the SDGs now. For me, this is a very encouraging item on the agenda today. These SDGs give hope, yes, but they are also commissioned for all of us at the same time. At the United Nations Summit in September 2015, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted. 193 UN Member States have jointly committed themselves to implementing these 17 sustainable development targets in their countries by 2030. Finally, it is a great task and a great movement in the regional, national and international fields to further these 17 development goals. The focus is on a threefold, namely the social, economic and also the environment, as sustainable development is to be promoted. I would just like to mention a few examples – for those who have not really known the SDGs up to now: On the one hand, it is poverty prevention, on the other hand, it is also the control of hunger, it is the health and well-being areas in which one wants to develop, but it is also a goal of high-quality education. We have heard a lot about education today; we see how important it is and how important it is in education. Another point is gender equality, and we have heard a lot about it at today's sitting. Another development objective to be pursued in these 193 countries is access to clean water as well as clean energy. Humane jobs, ladies and gentlemen, this is also an essential development goal for me, as well as sustainable consumption, peace and justice. Ladies and gentlemen! The international exchange we maintain in this area beyond national exchange is also important for us. Personally, I can cooperate in the international parliamentary network in the field of education. Especially in the field of education – if we stay in Austria – we have already made a lot of progress towards 2030. I just mention a few key points: For example, we have been able to lift well the level of performance and education of students in recent years. The latest Timss study shows that we have seen a really huge increase in mathematics with the students. In addition, compulsory school diplomas: Many people could be picked up; women are affected. For a very substantial reason, I also consider the measures on equal opportunities and gender equality to be very important, and I only mention the introduction of the girls into the Mint areas. Especially today, on the Day of Human Rights, please let me conclude by pointing out that today the initiative ends 16 days against violence against women. Please, let's always look at wherever we see violence! For us in politics, it must always be our duty to ensure protection and assistance for these women and children who are threatened and affected by violence, to really protect women and to give them legal measures so that they can enforce this protection. We need to raise awareness in our society. Solidarity, justice and sustainable development, ladies and gentlemen, are the foundation of peaceful living together, and each one of us is invited to make its contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16890	No one is reporting on this. As agreed, I shall refer the vote to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Constitutional Committee. [[16:13:07]] 12. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (404 e.g._Other Organiser 7th Additional Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Holy See on the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Holy See on the settlement of property relations of 23 December 1989 June 1960 (507 d.a.) 13. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (405 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on External Legal Relations of the Evangelical Church, the Federal Law on Financial Benefits to the Old Catholic Church and the Law on the Arrangement of the External Legal Relations of the Israeli Religious Society (508 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16933	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e16960	Mr President. Mrs Bundesministerins! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Citizens' values! With the two government documents we present today, we valorize the annual reparations to the Catholic, the evangelical and the Old Catholic Church as well as to the Israeli religious society. ==References== It was decided on July 1st, that today we should put it in legal form. It is not a promotion, it is a compensation for goods seized by the Nazi regime and no longer restored by the Republic. The basis of the payments to the Catholic Church is the 1960 asset agreement between Austria and the Holy See. After the end of 1938, the religious fund had been seized by the Nazi regime; priests – until 1939 – were then paid a modest salary and the church building burden was borne. Austria has already committed itself to restitution payments with the Vienna State Treaty in 1955. These restitution payments are made up of two parts according to the asset agreement: a variable, which is evaluated annually, and a fixed amount, which is then valorised only when inflation exceeds the 20 percent mark. This happened in 2018, and that is why we will make this adjustment retroactively from 2018 onwards. The annual fixed amount is increased by 3.4 million euros and now totals 20.7 million euros. At the same time, we have adapted the payments to the Protestant Church, to the Old Catholic Church and to the Israeli religious society accordingly. And so that we can make it a little easier in the future in the adaptation process, if this threshold is exceeded by 20 percent, the valorisation by regulation or by exchange of notes. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that all of this makes sense, is right and necessary, and it is especially important that it is fixed in a contractual way. The agreement is a sign of the good cooperation of Austria with the various churches and religious communities. I am convinced that this is the right way, and the unanimity in the Constitutional Committee has confirmed this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17003	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Kuntzl for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17024	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already stated that this item on the agenda is about the index adjustment for churches and religious communities. This is a good opportunity to appreciate in this place the work, the achievements of churches and religious communities, for the achievements they perform for society through charitable activity, and for them to hold many people. The SPÖ therefore supports this index adjustment and will give its consent to the submission. But this also gives rise to the fact that everyone has his task, on the one hand the churches and on the other the state, politics, on the other. Social democracy, ladies and gentlemen, strongly represents the approach to the separation of state and church. Both should carry out their task independently, but the interests must not be mixed. – I am therefore at the time of prayer, which has caused irritation and wonder in the public, because it is considered essential that religion is private in a secular state. From our point of view, the separation of state and religion must be strictly observed, all the more so than we all know that this is a delicate relationship, a historically burdened relationship, and we should have learned from history. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS]] And it is a serious difference, Mr President, whether Members meet privately for a common prayer, or whether you, Mr President, are officially invited to Parliament at a prayer hour and this prayer hour is officially held over the Parliament's homepage. This, Mr President, is a clear violation of the principle of the separation of state and religion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And it is a political instrumentalization of religion for media production, and that is not least a disrespect for the religious feelings of people. We should have learned from history, and from you, Mr President, as the highest representative of Parliament, as one of the highest representatives of our Republic, we expect you to act here with the appropriate state-political responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17069	Mrs. Raab has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17091	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! In the short term, the item on the agenda will be as follows: We want the corresponding laws to be followed with the present government proposal on the asset contract and thus adapt the fixed components of the benefits to the Catholic Church, the Protestant Church and the Old Catholic Church and the Israeli religious society to inflation. These are provisions resulting from the State Treaty, obligations arising from Article 26 of the 1955 State Treaty and those relating to the NS-Responsibilities. These are payments and compensations due to expropriations from the Nazi regime. The adjustments have been in place for a long time now. Since 2018, we have achieved the fixed amount of 20 percent, the increase, to make these adjustments as well. I therefore have discussions with the religious societies, and I also thank you for the discussion in the Constitutional Committee, for the broad agreement, and I also hope that the National Council will have broad approval today. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all churches and religious communities for their good cooperation, even during the Corona crisis. I have seen that the churches and religious communities, all 16 in number, make a valuable contribution to give people hope in the crisis. I think this is very important to support people in the crisis in particular. This is an absolutely valuable contribution to our social life, which we should very much appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17130	Mr Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17151	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, also in front of the screens! We today sign or approve the Seventh Additional Treaty with the Holy See on the settlement of property law issues resulting from the withdrawals of assets during National Socialism. It was the confiscation of the religious fund by the National Socialists, and the position of the Catholic Church towards National Socialism – if you say it a little euphemistic – ambivalent, there was a large part that supported National Socialism, but there was also a part that was in opposition; especially in the monasteries there was resistance. Nevertheless, the Catholic Church was deprived of the religious funds in the area of the Republic of Austria, and after 1945 there was a very long history of the restitution. There must also be a word addressed to the SPÖ: It was primarily Bruno Kreisky, who tried to find a solution, also in the sense of reconciliation between Church, Catholic Church and State, whose relationship was not particularly good at the time. It is not, of course, Mrs Kuntzl, about the separation of religion and state, but it is about the separation of church and state, since I am entirely with you. This should really be very precise, but as you know, there are numerous treaties in Austria that do not allow this separation between church and state, such as the concordat – which does not necessarily lead to the making of hours of prayer in Parliament. I'll be right there with you. I think it is very good that these treaties with the Holy See and subsequently also with the other religious societies and churches recognized since 1960, namely the Protestants, the Old Catholics and the Israeli religious society, always I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. In this sense, I am also in favour of the change of name of the Windisch-Kaserne to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[16:24]] [[16:24:53]] Vote on agenda items 6 to 13
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17200	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Constitutional Committee, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we go into the voting process, I address the question to the clubmen: Can we vote? - Yes. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law which amends the Audiovisual Media Services Act, the KommAustria Act, the ORF Act and the Private Radio Act, including the title and entry into 510 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever gives his approval in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is the majority, and therefore the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Henrike Brandstötter, colleagues, on ‘drastic reduction of the sum for the currently signed framework agreements Media Agency Services Federal Government and Creative Agency Services Federation’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Call the SPÖ: “Taste it what it wants”!]] [[Call: Sorry.]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law, which amends the Party Act 2012, the KommAustria Act, the Press Promotion Act 2004 and other laws, including title and entry into 511 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall come to the third reading. Who also accepts the draft law in third reading? – Same voice behavior, most of it. In this way, the draft law is also adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, the Administrative Law (COVID-19) and the Administrative Court Act 1985, together with the title and receipt in 512 of the Supplements. Since the present draft law contains an amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act as well as to the constitutional provisions, I may begin by stating that in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be given the presence necessary for the vote of the constitutional number of Members. I should now like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him again for a sign. – This is also accepted by the majority at third reading. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft Constitutional Act amending the COVID-19 Act, including title and entry into 513 of the Supplements. This draft law is again a Federal Constitutional Act, I am in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. That is why I now ask for a corresponding vote. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We'll come to the third reading. Whoever gives him the approval at third reading, I ask for a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. I, in turn, expressly note the two-thirds majority required for this. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 514 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This too is largely accepted. Agenda item 11: Vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 515 of the supplements concerning the resolution 260/A(E). Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the ‘Intensified involvement of Parliament in the implementation of the SDGs’ attached to the Committee’s report 515 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[118/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: 7th Additional Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Holy See on the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Holy See on the settlement of property relations of 23 December 1989 ==References====External links== Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 13: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on External Legal Relations of the Evangelical Church, the Federal Law on Financial Benefits to the Old Catholic Church and the Law on the Rules of the External Legal Relations of the Israeli Religious Society, including the title and entry into 405 of the Supplements. Whoever gives this consent, I ask him to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll come to the third reading. Who will also give his approval at third reading? – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:30:35]] 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (249 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervision Act 2016 (Insurance Supervision Novel 2020) (486 d.a.) 15. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (474 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Account Register and Account Survey Act, the Financial Market Money laundering Act, the Banking Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2018 and the Economic Owner Register Act (487 d.b.) are amended. 16. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (465 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the New Credit Agreements with the International Monetary Fund (489 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (355 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Argentine Republic on the elimination of double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes and on the prevention of tax reduction and circumvention, together with Protocol (490, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17333	We now come to points 14 to 17 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I would like to welcome the Minister for Finance. Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17368	Mr President. Mr. Finanzminister, who was just here! High house! Estimated Austrians! I am speaking to TOP 15, to amend the Account Registry and Account Statement Act. The revision of § 4 para. 5 Accounting and Accounting Act is referred to by Minister of Finance Blümel in the explanatory notes as ‘language adjustment’, which serves ‘the clarification’. In reality, this is not a clarification, but an attack on the rule of law. The proposed new regulation would mean that, in the course of an audit or external audit, access to the account register can be carried out without any reason, even if it is merely a routine periodic audit and there is no reasonable and substantial suspicion of the inaccuracy of the declaration of deposit. In this context, I should like to quote from the opinion of the board of tax advisors and auditors of 20.7.2020: “The audit to start in reverse with an account registry insight, on which an information in accordance with § 4 para. 6 KontRegG, without regard to any personal and professional sphere that is also protected by constitutional law.” – Meetingperson could not be formulated. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] In the course of an audit, the taxable person should also be given the opportunity to disperse any doubts as to the accuracy of the declaration by means of a corresponding clarification before a review into the account register takes place. [[Abg. Loacker: If the police are allowed to go to the apartment, the... can look into the account!]] With regard to the proposed amendment, it should also be noted that it is not compatible with the constitutional rule on banking secrecy, § 38 Banking Act, or that it requires a constitutional majority. According to § 38 para. 2 Banking Act, which constitutes a constitutional provision, will limit banking secrecy only in terms of information according to § 4 Account Register Act – that is the regulation that existed at the time of the regulation of § 38 BWG. This is a static, not a dynamic reference. The further restriction of banking secrecy therefore requires a constitutional provision. This legal view is also represented by the Austrian Bar Association. For the same reasons, the proposed amendment to § 8 para. 3 To refuse to take account of accounts and accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17409	Member of the Committee of the Regions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17430	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to agenda item 16: Federal Law on the New Credit Agreements with the International Monetary Fund. It is essentially about empowering the Austrian National Bank to grant the International Monetary Fund, on behalf of the Republic and under these New Credit Agreements, a credit framework of up to EUR 3 636 980 000 in special drawing rights. This is hardly a change for Austria, because the National Bank would have been able to make 3,6 billion euros available under the legislation in force. Overall, however, it is important because enforcement in all Member States will lead to a doubling of these special drawing rights. This will create more opportunities for the International Monetary Fund to help where necessary. We know that the International Monetary Fund is a central pillar of the international financial structure. This fund is financed by the quota, i.e. from the funds paid by each Member State. In Austria, as has been said, the Austrian National Bank is authorized to act for the Republic. As of April 2020, the IMF has 189 Member States. Among the larger are the USA, Japan, China, Germany, Great Britain, France and Italy. For example, Austria holds 0.83 percent capital of the votes. If a member has payment difficulties, it can claim assistance from the IMF. In addition, under certain conditions, temporary loans shall be granted, to be reimbursed at interest rates. We know examples in which this has worked very well in the recent past. Romania, Argentina, Greece or Ireland have benefited from such loans. In addition, the International Monetary Fund also supports developing countries in Africa, Asia or South America in the development of economic concepts and supports them through direct financial aid from the giving Member States. Similar to lending, development cooperation is usually linked to conditions such as democracy strengthening or corruption reduction. In times of crisis, the funds are often insufficient to provide effective assistance and to meet the needs. Then these new credit agreements will be activated. This is the case especially in times of the Covid pandemic. The New Credit Agreements include additional funds made available to the IMF by 40 States. I have already described the title of the draft law to be adopted today. There is currently a need for action because these new credit agreements would expire at the end of 2022 and are intended to increase them in total. If we increase from EUR 3.6 billion to EUR 3.637 billion, this means an increase of 1 percent for Austria. However, Austria is making an urgent contribution to globalisation, to global financial market stability and complying with its international obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17475	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17497	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr Fuchs has already explained to us in his very knowledgeable statements what it is about in extending the view into the account register. He is a tax advisor and as someone who is excellent in financial law, he is called upon to do so. After that, I looked at the list of speakers and considered whether the ÖVP would report to anyone with an entrepreneurial background. Mr Eßl was here as a member of the Farmers' Federation, Mrs Baumgartner will talk afterwards – I think she is a member of the ÖAAB. It is already significant, however, that they apparently did not know what was happening there, what was being done there – perhaps it has gotten my colleague's head – or they want to keep it quiet. It is not true that there is still much left in Austria of banking secrecy. Four years ago – then ÖVP and SPÖ – you created the account register to allow authorities and courts to access the account register without any judicial decision. That is, without a judicial decision, without a judge having previously looked over it, one can see who has which accounts, who has a deposit, who has a savings book. I think that this is already an inconceivable intervention in bourgeois freedoms, and we NEOS voted clearly against it at the time. This is nothing but a financial storage of data. All who believe now: That's not so bad, it doesn't matter if someone can see where I have an account!, I want to say: This does not matter, of course, because, because of the list of those who have how many accounts, very many conclusions on the highest personal range of life are possible, and I think these conclusions are extremely problematic. We also made it clear at that time that only Germany needs to be looked at, as this example already shows how problematic this is. It's always called: Well, there will be very few insights into the account register. We have had 6 200 insights in Austria in 2017, and this number has, of course, increased dramatically as well as in Germany: In 2019 it was 7 500. That was totally foreseeable. In Germany, the figures are even more exploding, since everyone at some point looks into the account register with the tax authority and looks where the neighbor has his account. We always warned about that, and you didn't take the warnings seriously. Now you also sacrifice the rest of the banking secret on the altar of populism, with a “explaination” – under quotation marks – as colleague Fox has already said: In the future, it should be possible to take a look at the accounts register in the normal routine tests. Without any reason, the account register may in future be looked into and looked into who has an account. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] They explain in the explanations that this is a clarification. – It is simply not a clarification. Both the Bar Association and other institutions have clearly stated that it is probably unconstitutional that it is possible to consult the account register without any concern as to whether the tax declaration is correct. I am already wondering about the ÖVP, which was once an entrepreneurship party, that it is throwing so many beatings at the feet of entrepreneurs in Austria and still continues to do so. They not only limit entrepreneurial freedom, you also restrict bourgeois freedoms, and you will eventually have to apologize to the entrepreneurs in Austria for your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17554	Member Yildirim has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17575	Mr President. Mr. Finanzminister! High house! Dear Seers! Tax transparency and, above all, tax justice are very, very important to us by the SPÖ. We, ladies and gentlemen, are too far from what the government has presented here. I would like to give you a brief explanation on the basis of an example – I am speaking by the way on the agenda item 15, Mr President, on the implementation of the 5. EU money laundering directive goes. Consider, for example, how financial services are concerned if they want to review a tax operation in which a foreign investor – and of which we had many, for example, from Russia, for example – suddenly puts millions of euros on the table, but they cannot ask where the money comes from. On the other hand, they must already ask Austrian taxpayers or EEA and EU taxpayers. That's what worries me, and that's what's too little for us, the SPÖ, in this government paper. Where is justice, if we may be in disrepute, because as the Republic of Austria, we are a place of refuge for tax offenders? We do not want to do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can only fight tax fraud internationally, only if we have the appropriate instruments. We have initially agreed in the Committee's debate, but with reservation, and have been holding talks for over a week. We have put forward a request which I now wish to make. If you accept this request, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, we will be very happy if you do not, but not. If you do not, we have prepared a referral request and give you the chance to correct it. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We are concerned that every investor is really welcome, but it must not result in a strong foreign currency Landowners are once again intensifying the situation, whether in Vienna or in a valley in Tyrol. We can only achieve fiscal justice and tax transparency together. In this sense, I hope you will agree. Otherwise, the SPÖ’s referral request is already in place. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17738	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17767	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! One thing is clear: Money laundering is not a cavalier crime. It is about financing serious criminal, mafia structures, it is about financing terrorist associations, from arms to human to drug trafficking. All the money purchased there must be washed in. Without the prospect of being able to use the illegal money in legal traffic, there would be no profit, and no organized crime without profit. It is also clear that illegal, unolidaric behaviour in the form of tax evasion necessarily ends with money laundering. Those who do not wish to make their fair contribution to society, who do not even make the required contribution, must be put in place with obstacles. Today's law enables us to give the inspectors more efficient instruments. ==References====External links== Money laundering directive a real step in the fight against money laundering. Nevertheless, a lot remains to be done in sectors that are particularly vulnerable to money laundering, such as in the real estate sector or in the jewelry or gambling industry. Especially from these cash-intensive areas there are suspiciously few suspicions. I would like to highlight a few points in this programme very briefly. Especially important for strong implementation is the extension of official assistance, in particular the possibility of cooperation between the financial authorities and the money laundering agency, the supervision of the financial market. It is equally positive to see the expansion of cooperation between credit institutions. Money laundering is an extremely networked and complex undertaking, so communication needs a clear legal framework. We also welcome the possibility of using artificial intelligence by banks to fulfil their obligations. The transaction monitoring is intended to enable state-of-the-art algorithms to be used. It is essential that these algorithms and their maintenance are part of the supervision by the control bodies. All of these are essential improvements, even if you could still improve a little. Mrs Colleague, I cannot answer your question here. We stay in touch, we stay in conversation, until the vote or beyond.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17810	Mr Blümel, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17832	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on this package, first of all on the new legislation on insurance supervision. Essentially, it is about adapting the products of insurance companies to those of pension funds in the context of occupational pension schemes. In particular, this concerns the information obligations of those entitled to benefits and the provisions relating to: slow-offs. The aim of this approximation process is to prevent distortions of competition between insurance and pension funds, thus strengthening the so-called second pillar of pension provision in Austria. Some things have already been said about the Federal Law on the New Credit Agreements with the International Monetary Fund. The IMF is an important contribution to the international management of this crisis. Financing will be carried out through the so-called special drawing rights of the various Member States. The increase for Austria is only necessary to a very small extent: So far, the legal framework has been 3.6 billion euros, and it will be increased to 3,637 billion euros. The double taxation agreement with Argentina, I believe, is an important step for all companies doing business with this country. Like all double taxation agreements, it is aimed at preventing double taxation, but also at ensuring that the tax exchange works better to prevent tax evasion by shifting profits. ==References====External links== There are obviously different views on the money laundering directive, which also surprises me a little in the argument, because, as far as I have heard, NEOS is too large and too strict, the SPÖ too little and too little strict, and therefore both do not agree. That would actually be the perfect signal that the compromise has worked. I take note, however, of the fact that: They don't want to help the 5. Money laundering directive can already be implemented, although it would be important to improve the investigation of authorities in the fight against money laundering, terrorist financing and other crimes. That should be our common concern. I can also remember that there was criticism that the 4. Money laundering policy has not been implemented in time, in summer also in the context of the question Commercialbank in Burgenland, the question Cum-Ex-Fälle et cetera arises again and again. All of this could be improved in part by the implementation of this money laundering directive. I can only ask you to give your consent. In fact, I have also felt that the debate in the Committee was very constructive and almost constructive, and I can only ask you to make it easier to combat money laundering a lot by making the constitutional majority available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17877	Mr Baumgartner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! ==References====External links== It is also important to ensure that the money laundering directive is implemented. I am somewhat surprised now because I have thought that almost all political groups are voting in favour of this amendment, which includes really important measures aimed at improving the investigation opportunities of the authorities to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and other serious crimes. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] In order to maintain fair competition, not only the lockers of credit institutions are included in the account register, but also the commercial lockers. This will stop a loophole for the concealment of assets arising from money laundering or other crimes. Mr. Scherak, you didn't do a proper research on me. Yes, I am ÖAAB member, I am also a farmer's federal member, I am also mayor and until three years ago I was a bank employee, more than 20 years in a small bank office where I really did everything, from the normal cash business on securities consulting, and the credit business I also did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] It was really very hard for us to always meet all the requirements; that was a note-making economy. We were really overwhelmed at times, but we employees were always glad that there were rules that, of course, safeguarded us in our work. The amendment to the Account Register and Account Survey Act is also an important rule for this. The draft was, of course, voted in advance with the Chamber of Commerce and with the bank representatives. The banking industry was aware that such changes in the national legal situation were necessary to implement the money laundering directive and to avoid infringement procedures. The banking secrecy remains true, of course, only the provision of information from the account register will be extended to some authorities, namely the BAT, the money laundering office, the Federal Criminal Office, the National Bank and the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of course, from today's point of view, it cannot be said that by considering the BAT attacks such as the terrorist attack in Vienna can be prevented, but it is certainly an important step to combat and perhaps in future to prevent terrorism. An important milestone is also an artificial intelligence-based transaction monitoring, which creates lists of conspicuous transactions, which in turn are controlled by the bank staff, which also makes no problem with data protection. In summary, I can only say that this law represents another essential step towards improving the system of combating money laundering and terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17956	No one is reporting on this. [[Call the ÖVP: But, look!]] The debate is not yet closed. I can give the floor to Parliament's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e17984	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A brief comment on the money laundering law – in short, there are several laws –: Following the Financial Committee, in which almost all the political groups of this bill have still agreed – almost all of them, Mr Fuchs, not all – to discuss additional requests from individual political groups. It was then yesterday that the SPÖ Group wished for an amendment which refers to two things which are, in principle, quite contentious, namely the inclusion of foreign companies that wish to acquire domestic properties and, on the other hand, the involvement of the founders of associations, because, of course, both can be quite appropriate to operate money laundering. Only this request is incomplete on the part of social democracy insofar as, of course, laws such as the eGovernment law or the associations, for example, need to be amended by the association law or, in the Economic Owners Register Act, the definition of the economic owner, for example, should be supplemented or amended. To that end, we cannot accept this amendment, in this form, which is why Social Democracy has now announced that it does not want to accept this bill. This law contains constitutional provisions, it is not to be expected to have the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. I very much regret this and ask the ladies and gentlemen once again to accept the draft law in this form. We have also offered to ask the Ministry of Finance on a motion for a resolution to submit these two facts further. We are still prepared to regulate these two facts by law, but if, then fully. That's why my appeal again: Voices You are now to this important law necessary to prevent money laundering, and I assure you that we are willing to create a legal basis for these two acts in the future! In this sense, I would ask you not to prevent this law now, but to agree to it. As has been said, we are taking care of the other two points very soon when they are going, already in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18027	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18048	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe in addition: What's the money laundering about? – We have looked at this carefully and have also considered how other European countries have implemented this money laundering directive – for example, Germany, very similar legal situation to us – and we have insisted that there are gaps in implementation in Austria. We have made very specific mention of these two gaps, about 30 hours before the government groups, all the political groups here in the House sent a motion for an amendment, much earlier than the government groups sent us amendments for today, which are much longer. – Only fairness, who is fair to whom. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The reports that came, especially from the EIA, were that it was unclear whether this was keeping European law and whether this was in conformity with the directive at all. That's where I can calm everyone down: This has been in legislative power in Germany for almost a year. This has been tested by European law. For example, in the case of persons who buy from Russia about constructions real estate, whether in Tyrol or in the city centre of Vienna, today, it is not checked whether the money is clean and who is behind these constructions. This is examined by everyone else, but not by persons from third countries. We just wanted to fix that! That's our proposal. If it says it's too little time: No problem, we're making a referral request. There will be a meeting of the Financial Committee next week, we will be able to discuss the next week in the Financial Committee immediately, and we will have it again in the next plenary session. It is another example that Mr Plakolm is not right. There are very constructive proposals of the opposition here. The government is cordially invited to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18090	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Financial Committee and continue on the agenda. [[17:03:42]] 18. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1109/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Fees Act 1957, the Federal Tax Code, the Tax Code, the Alcohol Tax Act, the International Tax Remuneration Act, the COVID-19 Funding Audit Act and the Municipal Tax Act 1993 (COVID-19 Tax Act – COVID-19-StMG) (492 d.B.) 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (468 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the COVID-19 Fund, the Hardfall Fund Act, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Non-profit Organization Support Fund, the 22. COVID-19 Act and the ABBAG Act are amended (COVID-19 Transparency Act) (488 D.B.) 20. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1122/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopp, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the SME Funding Act and the Guarantee Act 1977 (491 d.b.) 21. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 1111/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Hanger, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Standard Consumer Tax Act and the Electricity Tax Act (493 d.a.) 22. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 1110/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopp, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law, with the promotion of the federal government due to the COVID-19 Pandemic to be linked to fiscal welfare (494 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18186	We now come to points 18 to 22 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. These are reports from the Financial Committee. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18222	I can give the next example, not only for constructive opposition work, but also for the ability of government parties to write down opposition applications. Yesterday late at night we received an amendment – and see, this is literally written off from the SPÖ application, which is almost one year old on the day. [[Keeping an application up to date]] Thank you for writing down! We are very happy to support this part. The question is that for monthly hygiene products it is no longer necessary to pay the full rate of VAT; it is literally depreciated. Mr Plakolm said that the opposition was not constructive. – May be, but the government can still write off every day. Thank you very much on this point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] On the essential issues we are now dealing with in this debate: The first question is: Who will get this Covid-19 help at all? Is this help coming? What we all have experienced is that at the beginning, especially in the first half of the year, the help was too little, too late or not arrived, and what we now see at the lockdown two, is that with the full casting pot is hung everywhere and is not performed properly. It is perfectly right to support small and medium-sized enterprises, innkeepers and so on, but when we learn that, for example, a gambling venue, a gambling cafe gets the incredible sum of 280 000 euros only for the lockdown two – that is the forty times the annual profit of the previous year! – then we know that this help is definitely wrong. No, we want gambling, we don't want to subsidize bets with tax money. We do not want that, nor do we support it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, we know that Mr. Graf, the owner and founder of Novomatic, I believe that the second richest Austrian with approximately EUR 6.5 billion is private property. We need to support this now from tax resources of 2.4 million euros. 2.4 million euros for someone who's got enough anyway! Quite honestly, we don't need that. That's not perfect! No, we do not want to subsidize the Novomatic or Mr Graf or the gambling industry here. That's not the area where we say that there's the help and that the help comes right. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] For this, the aid is lacking for all those who are indirectly affected by the crisis. These are taxi companies, for example, these are organizers who organize cultural events, which are of course also many free independent, small organizers, sound technicians, light technicians, photographers et cetera – where the help does not come anywhere, namely nothing at all. This is a problem: On the one hand, much too much money for the gambling industry, but for that no money for small self-employed people who really need it. The next question and the crucial question – and we will continue to deal with this question for many years – is the question: Who's paying the costs? Who is paying for this crisis at the end of the day? What we see is that there are many countries that, for example, introduce property taxes, capital taxes and say: Yes, the top ten thousand are to make a contribution of 2, 3, 4, 5 percent of their assets. This is happening in Argentina, which is being considered in the UK. Spain. This is being considered in many countries, only in Austria does the ÖVP say that everyone should make a contribution, only the billionaires not, just not the donors of the short-term EVP. We will still have this debate, because I will tell you one thing: At the end of the day, billionaires will also contribute to the financing of this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A third very essential point is: What are the conditions for the help? If we help a company, will it just get the money like that or are there any conditions for it? For example, there may be the conditions for saving jobs, for people not to be released, for the location to be guaranteed, and for companies to pay their taxes properly and also to pay. Anyone who, I say, has used tax havens all the time, so he doesn't pay his contributions properly to the Community's funds, should we, if he has a problem if he's bad, make money out of the Community's funds?- Oh, my God! Now let's look at: What's the government doing? – The most beautiful example is the AUA rescue. It is important that the management bonuses be saved that the dividends are saved. The jobs do not matter, the location does not matter, and whether they pay their taxes honestly does not matter to the Minister of Finance. On the contrary! It signs in the Treaty in its rescue that in future taxes and taxes will be deliberately paid in certain parts not in Austria, but in Luxembourg, because it is cheaper in Luxembourg. The Minister of Finance itself assumes that taxes and taxes will no longer be paid in Austria as a result of the rescue of AUA. You have to imagine that! To that end, we say: No, we're not. Someone who deserves help should get it, but there are also certain rules: that he does not throw out his people, that he pays his taxes and that the operation is not transferred abroad. These are the basic conditions that everyone has to meet, and this does not happen in practice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I should like to make a motion for a resolution calling for these points: a solidarity levy for online companies and millionaires to finance the crisis, for example, and not to promote gambling companies, but to spend the money reasonably.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18316	Mr President, if you put this motion for a resolution, you will have to read it in the full text, otherwise it will be deemed not to be submitted.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18332	I'd like to do this: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:11]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18483	The application has now been properly submitted and is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e18512	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In cooperation with the Federal Government over the past nine months, in this House, in the context of this unprecedented pandemic and its impact on the people of Austria and, of course, on the economic operators in Austria, we have launched a whole series of very, very effective aid instruments and, in the meantime, has also brought billions of money – in concrete terms already in the order of more than 20 billion euros – to disbursement or to pledge, which ensures many, many businesses in Austria survival and secures many hundred thousand jobs in this country. Of course, we are also committed to certain conditions, for example to the fiscal welfare of these companies. This is very concrete in the directives of these individual funding instruments, and today we decide on a general tax provision of the same text for all the funding that we are still setting up in the future – starting from the 1.1st of next year – so that we no longer have to keep that in the future in the individual directives. Mr Krainer, in these various funding instruments, of course, also includes job guarantees within the meaning of the prohibitions on termination. Of course, we also consider this to be a command of the hour and a necessity when it comes to revenue replacement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we decide today in the context of this item on the agenda is a whole series of new additional fiscal measures. We have already decided in the past, in addition to direct support for businesses, but also for workers, a number of tax reliefs. For example, I can only remember the sales tax reduction to 5 percent for the gastronomy, the hotel industry, cultural organizers, media, but also for books and e-books. We are now reducing VAT on repairs in the sense of a circular economy and avoiding a throwaway mentality, and we are doing much more. We also decide to extend various tax reliefs. We modify and improve micro-contractors' payroll, and we introduce further measures against tax avoidance called interest-rate barriers to prevent corporate tax from being unfairly saved at the expense of the fiscal and public authorities. We are also extending the guarantees, for example with the AWS and the ÖHT, within the framework of the SME Funding Act, in addition to many other points. I do not hide that today, with our coalition partner, we also decide on a legal measure that is painful for us in the economy. The dramatic increase in the NOVA over the next few years, particularly in the small transporters and small trucks for economic operators, is painfully painful – I tell you – and is a concession to our coalition partner, who hurts us, but partnership is partnership and is giving and taking. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] - The applause comes from over there. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a reference to other different tax reliefs is still appropriate here. In order to ensure that this can also be effective – above all two other measures can be effective – I also propose an amendment to the COVID-19 tax law of Members. Karlheinz Kopf, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues. The request has been distributed in length, and I would like to mention two points: On the one hand, it is very valuable that if, for example, the allowance for participation in business events is not exhausted – now, if of course no Christmas celebrations and so on – instead of being able to issue vouchers to the employees. Up to a value of 365 euros, these are tax-free – to mention only one point. The second point – quite, very important for entrepreneurs – is a payment model for late taxes, which is already valid from the age of 15. This will now be postponed to 31.3. and, in the future, the refund may be extended to up to 36 months, and can be returned in instalments. These are two very, very important measures that are reflected in this amendment. He's, as I said, been distributed. Ladies and gentlemen! These are very important measures for the tax relief of taxpayers in Austria, and I can request your approval of these measures. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[17:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19018	The amendment was presented in the broad outlines, is sufficiently supported, was also distributed to all Members and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Hubert Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19042	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated Austrians! I speak to TOP 22, to the Federal Law, with the promotion of the federal government due to the Covid-19-Pandemy linked to the tax charity. The funding for the coronary aid measures is financed in full from the contributions of Austrian taxpayers, so it should also be a matter of course that tax sinners do not receive corona promotions or, if tax compensations have been received, they must also repay them. The federal law introduced by the Black and Green Government Coalition, which connects corona promotions to fiscal welfare, does not meet the legal objective – no promotions for tax offenders. With this Tax Health Protection Act – as I would like to call it – Black-Green ensures that taxpayers do not have to repay benefits received. I would now like to refer to the individual provisions of this federal law. § 1 of this Federal Act ensures that entrepreneurs can behave unfairly at the end of the grant and yet do not have to repay the grants. § 4 of this Federal Act ensures that tax sinners must pay back subsidies only if the funding agency becomes aware of the misused behaviour of the taxpayer within five years. Especially scandalous is § 9. § 9 of this Federal Act ensures that tax sinners do not have to repay the benefits received if the legal basis of the funding has already been adopted in 2020, but this will be the case for most corona aid measures. § 10 of this Federal Act ensures that tax sinners do not have to repay the benefits received if the abusive behaviour of the tax sinner has not been discovered until after 31.12.2025 or the subsidies have not been recovered until 31.12.2025. Let us now come to the black and green definition of fiscal welfare in § 3. According to § 3 Z 2, for example, there is fiscal welfare even if the company has paid a maximum of EUR 500 000 each year to Group companies in tax havens or to low-tax countries. However, if the trader forgets a disclosure in the corporate tax declaration, the trader shall nevertheless be considered taxable if the forgotten interest and licence fees do not exceed the amount of EUR 100 000. The explanations of this federal law speak generously of a tolerance limit. Therefore, certain amounts, interest rates and licence fees up to EUR 100 000 are not to be specified in the tax declaration. This falls below the border of the bagatelles, and this is still considered taxable. – Isn't that inconceivable? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, according to paragraph 4, entrepreneurs who commit only financial irregularities within the meaning of the Financial Penal Code are also considered taxable. I am now allowed to deal with these small tax sins, which can be committed according to the definition of black-green, but which are nevertheless regarded as tax-recognition. An illegality of financial regulation according to § 49 of the Financial Criminal Law is, for example, a guilty person who deliberately asserts unfair tax credits by surrendering unfair VAT pre-applications. That is to say, the intentional submission of an incorrect VAT pre-registration is no problem for Black-Green. For example, an illegality of financial regulation under § 49b of the Financial Criminal Law is guilty of the intention to infringe the obligation to submit the country-related report in accordance with the Accounting Price Documentation Act by the fact that reported items are not transmitted to the Financial Office or are improperly transmitted to the Financial Office. This is not a problem for black and green either. For example, an illegal financial regulation pursuant to § 49c of the Financial Criminal Law is also guilty of the intentional violation of a duty under the provisions of the EU Notification Act by the fact that incorrect information is reported. I may point out briefly that the EU Notification Act is about reporting cross-border tax designs to the Financial Office. If one neglects or violates this reporting obligation, that is no problem for Black-Green at all. I would like to save you more details of this Black-Green Tax Health Protection Act. Through this federal law, the black and green government coalition protects not taxpayers, but tax sinners. We will certainly not agree to this Tax Health Protection Act and accordingly have tabled an amendment which has already been distributed or is about to be distributed. I believe that I have given sufficient reason to this request, which essentially reaffirms the points I have put forward here. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19232	Yes, honourable Member, you have properly tabled the amendment and explained it in the broad guidelines. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19257	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! Today is a special day in the fight against climate change, a day of change in the fight against climate change and a special day for climate protection in Austria. A demand made by climate researchers, as I have once been, for years, if not decades, that of an eco-social tax reform as an essential and necessary part of an effective climate policy, is at least set in components by today's TOP 21 decision. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The previous speakers have partly addressed details of other agenda items, but I would really like to take a step back and ask the question in a little detail: What does an eco-social tax reform really need? – You might be able to intervene – Mr Krainer often argues – in order to intervene in a regulatory policy; one could, for example, prohibit buying larger cars, one could require that tickets for public transport be part of a salary or wage, one could require that goods be transported on the rail, one could also prescribe repairs of broken or broken items. In some areas such regulatory access may be useful and necessary, but the eco-social tax reform is much more elegant access. It creates the possibility that people still have the power to decide to choose one thing or another – if you absolutely want to, you can still buy the thickest instincts – and you just lose the advantage that you can hand over and transfer the costs that arise for the general public to the public. Instead, you have to pay for the costs yourself – that is the great advantage of the eco-social tax reform. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Eßl.]] In short: You are no longer the defyer, if you behave climate-friendlyly, but you have a financial advantage in your behavior. The second major advantage of the eco-social tax reform, of taxes as a means of combating climate change, is taxation. Taxes, and there are some curious examples in the history: I remember the window control in the 19th century. In the 19th century in the UK or in France, people have lost their windows in their homes, up to cheap rental houses that no longer had windows to save themselves money. By this you can see: Taxation and tax reform are effective and help reduce emissions if we use them properly, and I believe that we are doing so with these next steps in the course of the eco-social tax reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So how do we release this control power now? – From my point of view, we do this especially in the purchase of new cars. There's often the criticism: Well, in the case of new cars, no emission has yet been released, the more passive in operation, so you need a CO2 tax or an EG. – But especially when buying the new car, as a consumer, I have the opportunity to opt for a consumer-intensive, dirty vehicle, a clean or none. If I want to, I can ask myself the question at the time if I do not prefer to ride the bike. That is why this is the time at which the greatest steering effect can be achieved. If you don't want to run off so to speak, but really want to achieve steering, that's the moment when you have to intervene taxly. It is similar with the other points, for example with regard to the exemption from the subject matter. I think that's really a breakthrough. It may lead to the public service ticket becoming a normal part of service and employment contracts, allowing you to pay some of the salary in public transport tickets. In the case of freight transport, I think, a turnaround has been achieved. The toll for truck transport is increased – thus making the transport of goods by the truck more expensive – while at the same time reducing the electricity tax on the train and thus the transport on the train cheaper. It is similar to the repairs: We lowered the rate of sales from 20 to 10 percent. This makes repairs more interesting and does not throw away everything, but gives the matter a second chance if that is possible. I believe that what has now happened is a first important step, it is not the entire tax reform. We have almost promised that the first parts will come with 2021, that is redeemed with it, and the other parts – shuttles, tank tourism and service car privilege – will follow along with the general CO2 price during the year or next year respectively. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This will make climate-friendly technologies a breakthrough – for example, with the NOVA – but it is also almost an incentive for people to behave climate-friendlyly. It will reduce emissions, but the decisions are not taken by the government, but people can decide for themselves whether they want to behave in a sustainable way or not – but at least you have no more advantage of it if you don't. - Good. Then I would like to come to the other items on the agenda very briefly and start with Member of the Fuchs: You're saying that's, like, a transport law for tax culprits. – It’s a law against aggressive tax avoidance or people who do this don’t get corona promotions. There may then still be criticism points in detail, but that there is this law, of course, is an improvement in the situation and leads to the fact that, when aggressive tax avoidance happens in general, there is no right to corona funding. The fact that it does not act retroactively is, I believe, also comprehensible. This has also been done more widely by honourable Members last time. Indeed, we have provided for this scheme throughout the funding tools available so far, in particular in the fixed cost grant: If aggressive tax avoidance has been carried out in the past, there is no claim to the fixed-cost subsidy. On another request, which you, honourable Member Krainer, have made, namely that dividend payments and management bonuses are limited, I would like to say that this is already taken into account in the fixed-cost subsidy. This is a final point and to Mr Graf: The revenue replacement may be viewed as critical, but in some areas it has also been carried over, but what you cannot see critically about it is that the revenue replacement is a help that arrives quickly and unbureaucratically. That was also the goal, because there was also a very often criticism that it is far too difficult to come to the payments, and in the case of revenue replacement, that is certainly not the case. If one goes here now and almost excludes Mr Graf somewhere in the explanations, then one naturally begins to complicate the whole thing, which has not been the intention of this revenue replacement. That's why I think it fits in the form as it has been made, in the end. I ask for approval, especially on the important climate change and environmental tax changes that we are bringing about, I look forward to the next year and hope that we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19357	Mrs Karin Doppelbauer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19378	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! We were only here in the House just three weeks ago, because we had a special meeting, since a law had been shattered. This mistake had to be resolved because otherwise there would be no budget 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] That was the sad highlight of a series of legistic pans that have happened lately in recent months. Now, of course, you have to ask: What's that about? One reason for this is that, unfortunately, the Federal Government is increasingly relinquishing the review procedures, in which experts and stakeholders can bring in what would still be improved. Then everything happens to the last pusher, and then it is whipped through by the different committees, which we have seen more and more recently. And yes, then you will lose track of all the proposals for initiative and amendments, which are so constantly coming in, the overview – and what is the result? – The result is simply a mistake, it is a legitimate pan that has a massive impact on the citizens, especially the entrepreneurs. What happens, though? – Instead of learning from it, it just goes on funny! I mean, it's really baffling. Last night we received amendments; at the end of the budget week, on Friday evening – we have to say: Friday night – a long list of applications was sent. This was then whipped by the Financial Committee on Tuesday, and now we are here and we are discussing these requests in plenary today. Quite honestly, that's what I mean: That's how Pusch is created. This apparently does not interest the Federal Government, nor does it seem to interest the representatives of Turquoise/Black-Green. Piling, bad luck and panning strategy, which is, as it seems, the new structure and the new method with which the government is working, and I fear that this will not change either. Let's look at the templates: Point 1 is a legitimate autumn package to the pandemic, so it says at least. Much more has been packed in, of course, including things that have nothing to do with the Covid crisis, and that is honestly a bit of herb and beet, when you look at the whole thing. If you look at this package, you get an impression that you say the Federal Government looked on the calendar and then said: Ups, it's December! We've slept a lot now, we'll make it quick! This is really a pity, because in this package there are a lot of things that are extremely important and also very good and which we would support, but without an accurate review and especially without an impact assessment, we simply cannot go along – especially because the first experts already knock on us again and say that there have been legal sluts happening again, up to a feedback that means that it will not last, and that some things are constitutionally really problematic in this new legal system. Then I would like to take a brief look at the recast of the NOVA – another initiative that we had at the last meeting of the Financial Committee, which is to be sold today as the first step in environmental tax reform. In fact, nothing is ecologized. What happens is nothing but a hidden tax increase: They simply make the acquisition of larger cars that theoretically emit more CO2, more expensive. They also make smaller cars more expensive. What you do not take into account in this whole story is the CO2 emissions from the use of the vehicle, and that is why it would be a matter of really bringing an ecological tax reform on the road. What you're doing here is a little sedative game for your own clientele, because nothing else is what you're presenting. Our approach is a non-profit-making environmental tax reform with a real price reduction of CO2 emissions while at the same time reducing labour by reducing taxes and additional wage costs. That's the more sustainable, that's the better way. The fact that the Greens – as fair as you have to be – have no interest in a tax relief of the economy and people, they have never claimed it, and that is okay, but that the ÖVP as the former economic party is hopping there and so lets it go through, it can probably only be due to the fact that it is reversed in most other political areas and there the Greens stand there with collided teeth and say: Yeah, that's where we have to go. – Two to three years ago, however, they would not have done so, since they would still have stood upright and argued against it. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: And in Vienna...?]] [[Further calls from Mr Hanger and Mr Haubner.]] And then today, the vice chancellor will judge that we are NEOS removed?- Oh, my God! Really? – They have really fueled many hopes in this country. You have promised the citizens a lot when you joined together, but what you are presenting here is not the best of two worlds, but what you are presenting here is just disappointing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19438	Mr Gernot Blümel has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19459	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since the aid has already been raised several times in the previous debate, perhaps a brief overview. We as the Federal Government have so far provided a very large volume of support for jobs and businesses in this difficult time, ranging from short-time work, guarantees, support to direct aid. So far, 28.5 billion euros have been legally committed or already flown. With the fixed-cost grant phase one and two as well as the turnover replacement, almost 140 000 applications with a total volume of 2.5 billion euros have been submitted by companies. Already 1.8 billion euros have been paid. An analysis of the International Monetary Fund, taken up in Austria by the IHS, has shown: Austria has the largest rescue package in relation to economic performance within the European Union, namely 8 percent of GDP in total, which is twice as much as the EU average of 4 percent of GDP. This can really be seen in support of jobs and businesses, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] You know, the lockdown has to be partially extended in order to continue to reduce the infection. That is why we have also extended revenue revenue to December. The companies that must continue to be closed will receive 50 percent of turnover in December by the end of the year. As has already been proven, the application is made via financial online. From 16 December, this December replacement will be applicable for the closed establishments. This will be an additional cost of about 1 billion euros. Of course, sales can't be a long-term measure, that's completely clear. As one of two countries within the European Union, we are therefore building a fixed cost allowance of up to 3 million euros, which is de facto a loss cover. The fixed cost grant up to €800 000 and the fixed cost grant phase two with up to €3 million will then be available as an alternative and offer better support than is the case in most other European countries, ladies and gentlemen. Despite a certain degree of hope on the horizon, despite the vaccination, which hopefully will soon also be applicable in Austria, we are not at the end, but In the middle of this global economic and health crisis. It is therefore necessary to extend many of the existing measures and support until this crisis is over. We therefore have a legal overwintering package in order to implement the necessary legal changes, which is available to you under the COVID-19 Tax Act. The application includes the extension of the reduced turnover tax in the areas of gastronomy, hotel industry, culture by the end of 2021. It includes the extension of the tax advantage for workers in different areas, such as the flat rate and other allowances. Also included is the extension of the upcoming tax receipts and the withdrawal of pre-orders of interest rates up to 31. March. All in all, the tax receipts and the reduction of advance payments amounted to EUR 6.5 billion. This was important because liquidity remained directly in the companies. The government fractions will also make a request in the course of the debate to enable an adjusted repayment. So far, the statutory rate payment structure has provided for a maximum of 12 months to be set at an interest rate of 4.5 percent above the basic interest rate in order to repay the tax debt. Now we change this and extend the repayment period to up to 36 months and reduce the interest rate to 2 percent above the basic interest rate. The amendment also includes the implementation of tax-free Christmas vouchers up to 365 euros per employee. You know, the Christmas celebrations can't take place this year, but in order to make it possible for the employees' employees to receive the recognition they deserve, we want to take this measure. Another legislative initiative provides for the innovation of the SME Funding Act and the Guarantee Act of 1977. These changes can extend the liability framework for the so important Covid-19 bridging guarantees by the AWS and the ÖHT beyond the year until the end of June 2021. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Thank you. Finally, I would like to refer briefly to the COVID-19 Transparency Act, which will also be adopted today. The Ministry of Finance has already partially exceeded the legal requirements for reporting on the Covid-19 assistance measures. Nevertheless, the government has tried to further increase transparency, and we have also been guided by the proposals of Parliament's budget service. Therefore, in the future, in addition to the already existing reporting obligations of the BMF on disbursements from the Covid-19 crisis management fund to the Budget Committee, there will also be a reporting obligation of the individual departments within the respective specialist committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19533	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19557	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer meant that in spring it was too little, in autumn it is too much. This makes me quite sure that we are right, ladies and gentlemen, with our actions to accompany entrepreneurs along this path through the crisis. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] It is our objective to accompany entrepreneurs with measures that support them in finding the way through the crisis to secure jobs. We want to do everything we can to keep Austria's economic location in shape and to be set up accordingly for the post-crisis period. Mrs Doppelbauer, you say that there are a lot of measures. Yes, there are many measures, and I do not fully understand why NEOS criticize these measures. Why are you against the fact that we relieve the gastronomy and the hotel industry and lower their VAT to 5 percent? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] Why are you against the fact that we relieve the book trade and that the sales tax is reduced to 10 percent? Why are you opposed to supporting the culture? You have to explain this to people. [[New call of the abg. Double farmer.]] I can only imagine that this may be due a little bit to your new line, that you hold the Vienna course, the red-pink course here a little bit and live mainly on the criticism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have put in place a lot of measures here that are important and right. One of the most harassed sectors is the travel agency industry, thanks to Mrs Minister, and thank you, Minister, and we have recently adopted measures that are vital for this sector. In this sector, 10,000 people work, and these jobs are also very important to us. And if we now, because a major insurer rises out of the entire guarantee of liability for the travel agencies that take over as a republic, then that is quite, very important and crucial. I think we can thank the travel agencies that they have now endured for so long and have gone the way together with us, and now it is so far that we have taken this very important measure for them. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I don't like to talk about pain, I like to talk about reliefs and support, but it's just like in marriage: There are also measures taken by the partner, which are simply carried out in order to secure the whole in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, don't talk about all the measures bad, but support us! There are many measures that accompany entrepreneurs in the crisis that secure jobs and bring Austria to a good future. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19641	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19663	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Members, listeners! I have to give my colleague, double farmer: We continue the popular series “Pleiding, Plunging and Panning Service” in various forms. It's stupid when we're here. always deliver the spoiler, so that people already know what is happening to them when it becomes concrete. Let's try to summarize it: One part is the pan aid we provide. As Mr Krainer has already said, we have requests for referral back. For those who do not know the parliamentary process: It is a question of being able to discuss reasonablely in due time in order to come up with failed solutions. - Helping one. Further assistance: I make a request by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues, to the report of the Financial Committee on the motion for a resolution 1109/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues. This is essentially about resolving the problems of income tax law, treating social plans properly, or ensuring that there is no need in the context of the annual budget in 2020. – A small assistance to the government parties. The question of all of this is whether this is due only to the marital problems – that would now be Peter Haubner’s thesis – so Black-Green apparently came directly from the short honeymoon into the marital crisis. That may be yes, but it is no reason that you can't do it anymore. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] And, dear Peter Haubner, in the context of the measure, to thank the travel agencies after they have not received any assistance for months – and the rest of those who are indirectly concerned until today – and given that we have industries that have been waiting until now for help and are now being locked back, whereas arms trafficking is left open and, at the same time, the betting agencies get the money in the same lockdown – that's not just dilettantism, that's wrong! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now we could talk about whether the reason for dilettantism lies in the fact that you want to successfully continue the series “Pleate, Pity and Panning Service” or whether it is evil will. I am a well-believed person, and with some we have quite a reasonable discussion climate, so it would be likely that it is due to inability that people can still not make fixed-cost applications from the fixed-cost grant of the phase one for the remaining three months, that they can apply for a fixed-cost grant of the phase two, but still find a form that is not complete. All of this could be inability, but there are indications that it is not alone. It is a struggle between the two, in which the ÖVP has controlled the Greens for months now like a drone, and now a return carriage has come in this law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] May I read what ÖVP Wirtschaftsbund (ÖVP), Kurt Egger, the successor of Peter Haubner, said on 4 April. Did you write on December? – You now have to make a concession, and they have to make the concession because they have previously controlled you remotely. Only: The ÖVP can and does not want it, dear Jacob Schwarz, and the reason why it goes wrong is not you, but that is the ÖVP. You don't want it! That is why they do not want to control the Cofag funds, and therefore we were not allowed to have a committee in Parliament to check it: because your inability to do so should not be checked. We will always resist it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19919	The request was distributed to the Members, explained in the broad outlines and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e19943	Madam President. Dear ministers! Mr. Minister! From my colleague Matznetter's science fiction filter back to the real world! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Among other things, we now also decide to amend the VAT law, and we are implementing something for which feminists and feminist activists have been fighting for years, namely a reduction in the tax rate on menstrual products. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] According to calculations, women in their lives live through about 500 cycles in 40 years. We therefore have the rule on almost 3,000 days of our life, and we spend about EUR 2 700 for menstrual articles at that time. While other countries, such as France, Great Britain, Australia or Germany, had already reduced the tax on menstrual items, in Austria they are still taxed by 20 percent in the category of luxury goods in 2020 and thus higher than sect, opera visits or other things, although menstrual items are not luxury goods, but simply those products we need every day, month by month as part of our basic needs. In Austria, both the women's people's desire, which has been supported by over 500 000 people, as well as a petition on the platform, which has been signed by 30 000 people, and the strawberry week have long called for a reduction in this unjustly high turnover tax on menstrual products. We Greens, too, have always been committed to reducing the tax rate. As early as May 2017, a green colleague of mine filed a corresponding request in the House; at that time he was postponed, postponed and postponed by the red-black government in the financial committees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Look at the protocols, Mr Krainer, before you get out here and claim that the coalition would have written off anything from you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a green female speaker, I am very pleased that we are finally ending a tax injustice against menstruants with the reduction of the tax rate from 20 to 10 percent for menstrual articles such as binders, tampons, menstrual stations and menstrual sponges. The low tax rate is valid at 1.1.2021, and I would like to conclude by pleading to the manufacturers that they will actually pass on this reduction.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20005	Next speaker: Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20026	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! I am referring to the NoVA Elevation, and I am sorry that the two main perpetrators are not present in this matter, Vice Chancellor Kogler and Minister of Transport, Geessler, because you already have to know how the genesis of this NoVA Elevation actually went away, and actually what happened is scandalous. It was a night and fog action, you just sent this thing on the journey without review, and today it should be decided as well. One thing I would like to say: Mr Schnedlitz spoke earlier about a dictatorship that is beginning, and I will also support it, also with the danger of getting a call for order for it. You can easily see, ladies and gentlemen, above all from the ÖVP, how annoying you are of Parliament's operation, how often Parliament is slowed down, how often committees are not dealt with and how often they do not have the appropriate reviews – and that is exactly what happened right now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because I spoke about the disease of the NoVA Elevation: This one and only serves to calm the green clientele, which has just somehow lost its pruning in Vienna, which suffers constantly from the fact that the Greens have already completely absorbed the policy of the ÖVP and that the Greens do not put any eco-theme on the ramp at the end of the day, so that they are put under pressure in truth – rightly, as I believe – also by their own left party members and sympathizers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian population is not there to bathe out the nature of the Greens just because you just have a sense crisis and do not know how you want to create yourself politically, but the Austrian people have the right to deal rationally with it and not just to bathe out any political plots. If we are already talking about green policy, I would like to know from the Greens how they explain what is to be achieved with this nova increase. Do you know what you're doing with it? – In any case, there is no change to Euro-6 engines and the fleet is renewed. No, the increase in NoVA is exactly the result of the fact that older cars stay in operation for longer, because you don't buy new ones. That is to say, the achievement of your environmental standards, which you are constantly demanding, has moved you yourself. [[Rejoicing and condolences with Green MEPs and interlocutors with the Greens.]] Yeah, I said it before. They are also slowing down the parliamentary process. It is also incredibly cynical when Mr. Schwarz, as before, comes here and says: Well, if you don't want to afford it, you have to think about driving by bicycle. – Mr Commissioner, I do not know on which planet you are living on, but Austria is not just made up of 7. District and Bobo districts. I'm from Lilienfeld. Once you drive from Sankt Aegyd am Neuwalde to the nearest district capital Lilienfeld, and then we will continue to look. [[Calls to the Greens.]] So to say: Take a wheel if you can't afford the car!, is more than cynical, and it also allows a little conclusion on how you're actually polished. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] From my point of view, the reduction of the CO2 allowance is completely arbitrary, the cover of the NOVA is equally. They now decide that the cost of motorcycles will be increased by up to 30 percent. This too is very interesting – you have obviously forgotten that your Bobo colleagues too in the 7th century. Place the district with the Vespa. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Elektro-Vespa!]] These too can then finally turn out more for it. [[Call the Greens:E-Roller!]] If I look at what happens to my colleague's head – he says: Yes, that's all painful and we're sorry anyway, but let's see! – then I think that can have two backgrounds: Either colleague's head knows that everything is not eaten as hot as it is cooked, and you're soon going to be history, or the task of the ÖVP is already in progress. I find it unheard of that one reads in the media report that a nova loophole had now been stopped. Do you know what this nova loophole was? – With this NoVA increase you now also charge small and medium-sized enterprises with a fee. I would just like to give a few examples: For an Iveco Daily, for example – this is a bust cart – increase the cost by 17 630 euros by 2024. MAN TGE, an all-wheeled delivery vehicle: By 2024, you will increase by 24 000 euros and write. That's also exciting if you want to buy it. And the Mercedes Sprinter, which everyone knows, will become more expensive by 2024 by 17 026 euros. Now I'm asking myself the question when you say the big stinkers and the luxury objects have to go away: Well, do you think that a Mercedes Sprinter is a luxury object or a status symbol – or that you simply need it and grippingly to work? And if you put it, that will be tax deductible: Well, excuse me, you have already ruined the economy together with the ÖVP! You have to pay taxes first so that you can put something down. This will certainly not be the case for 2020 and will become more difficult later on. - That's one thing. And then I think on the other hand, where these companies are finally to bring back their costs, ladies and gentlemen. – Yes, of course, with the Austrian population, with consumers. They'll have to bleed for your great ideas. The same applies to family vehicles. I'd like to show you a mirror, too. Forward: They're talking about big instincts and Ferrari. Should I tell you how many Ferraris have been approved last year? – That was 56 pieces. And if you might want to know how many Lamborghinis: That was 40 pieces. There you increase the prices and somehow want to argue that there is a great deal of money being released and the environment is saved with it! This is a double moral of the special class, because on the other hand you take the coal quite elsewhere: They pull the money out of the Austrians, for example, at Skoda Octavia. Do you know how many are allowed there? – 7 500 pieces have been approved, and that makes up the mass. This also applies to many other vehicles: At VW Sharan, this is a family vehicle, or at Ford Galaxy, you get the money out of the crowd. This has nothing to do with an eco-social tax reform and anything else, but it is really a proof of how much you are already on the wood road. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the reason why you are constantly working here from a miscarriage to the next one. Federal Minister Geessler, the most inactive minister, does a common cause with Minister of Finance Blümel, who can remember nothing 86 times and constantly forgets the zeros. [[Abg. Loacker: But she's really happy!]] So you can already see that you can only deal with emergency regulations and crises more and really would like Parliament to be completely clumsy. They are already anticipating the climate crisis again, and we are not finished with the health crisis at all, and so in the future you imagine ruling Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, no, that is not the case, and – I have already said it before – if you continue to do so and constantly call out a crisis after another, you will not even be able to write applications in such a way that they can finally be decided without needing a special meeting, then we will see where we have landed. In conclusion, as follows: That's why you just have to be accused of risking 41 000 unemployed people in the automotive industry and in related businesses. You must also be accused that you are doing nothing exactly for the environment, because you are also hindering the renewal of the fleet. And finally, you also have to make the accusation that you are actually showing dictatorial approaches. I say it again: This is not the way to deal with a parliament and also with the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20114	Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger is next spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20138	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Especially the entire tourism, the travel industry, the organizers, the leisure industry and also the gastronomy are undoubtedly the main sectors affected by this worldwide corona pandemic. The travel agencies are particularly hard hit, because they naturally live on the freedom of travel, and I really have to contradict Mr Matznetter: From the beginning of this crisis, we have tried to find special solutions for travel agencies. This is an area that is very special. We have already provided the possibility in the fixed cost grant phase that personnel costs could also be claimed, because the entire travel business had to be cancelled from half a year in particular. The fixed cost grant phase one has thus already been specifically adapted to travel agencies, and in particular the fixed cost grant phase two with the loss replacement and the possibility of depreciation of the frustrated expenses will provide massive support for travel agencies, which is correct and good because this is our specialists in Austria for the travel business. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, we also see a difficult problem facing us, and that is the question of the insolvency protection of the travel industry. So far, there has been a major global travel insurer, the HDI Global insurance company, which is on 1. Retired from the global insurance market on December 20, 2020. This also affects very many companies in Austria, and all the other insurers have discontinued their offer for package travel insurance in Austria. This is primarily due to the current global pandemic. Since the insurance and banking market is currently not ready to take over this risk for the industry, we have built a temporary system to support the tour operators, the travel agencies as much as possible. This means that we create the basis for an insolvency security through the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank for a temporary bridge. The travel agency industry in Austria is characterized by many small companies. It dominates the enterprises with one to nine employees, and in total more than 2 600 companies currently operate the travel agency in Austria. Without this insolvency protection for customer funds – and I believe that is especially important – the Travel operators no longer offer vacation trips, because the EU-Palestal Travel Directive provides for full insolvency protection. This would be like a professional ban. With today's proposal, and I should like to thank the House very much, we are very much in favour of the support that this sector needs for 2021. We will definitely get our travel freedom back next year, and there will need specialists who will ensure holiday experiences. That is why this support in the form of insolvency protection, which we decide today, is so important. Also a very important support measure for the whole tourism, gastronomy and leisure sector is the extension of the tax reduction, the liability package and, above all, the tax relief arrangements. Due to the extension of the sales tax reduction of 5 percent to the entire year 2021, many of the losses are covered. The reduction concerns all foods and drinks, both non-alcoholic and alcoholic. These include shelters and cabins. Also the commercial accommodation, pensions, private room rentals and the transfer of apartments and plots for camping purposes are covered by this extension. In addition, we will continue to make theatre performances, zoological parks, museums, zoological and botanical gardens, nature parks and cinemas benefit from this tax reduction, and also actors, who belong to most of Austria for leisure activities, will benefit from the reduced tax rate. But especially for us, the extension of the liability framework for bridging financing is also crucial. This was actually the first instrument that we launched together with the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank – already in March – which Zig thousands of businesses have taken advantage of and with which we have really created the opportunity to bring the companies through this very, very difficult time. This is a measure that is very much accepted. For the ÖHT, a liability framework of EUR 1.6 billion is available, resulting in the extension of the authorisation until 30. ==References== Furthermore, we will continue to extend tax subsidies until 31. ==References== In addition, no interest is required, so this is a very, very crucial and important measure so that we can get our businesses through this time, through this corona crisis. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the gastronomy, the country guest houses, the locals, the bars are a very important part of our social life. The hotel industry, the accommodation industry, the entire tourism industry create unforgettable holiday experiences in Austria. We must also remember our organizers who contribute to the fact that the entire economic area is alive when you think of fairs, congresses, and it is above all our leisure activities that always offer us recreation and entertainment. We are a country of cuisine, we are a country of hospitality, and we must do everything we can to bring these industries through this particularly difficult and hard time. I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for support. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20209	Next item is the report by Mr Manfred Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20235	Madam President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Corona crisis continues to have a strong grip on us. Mr Blümel, Federal Minister, said: All the measures we take are designed to preserve jobs and to strengthen the economy, especially in affected tourism and in gastronomy. With the Tax Act, we will today create extensions that we absolutely need. I might want to take out a small point that was very interesting to me personally in the last few days. For the farms, the operating climate is quite essential. Since Christmas celebrations have to fail this year, many companies at the municipalities ask for vouchers and so on and so on. I think these tax-privileged vouchers create a possibility for businesses with the 365 euros per employee, which can be counted as an operating expenditure and are also free of pay for the employee. This is an essential contribution to bringing some joy to the Christmas season without the need for the big meetings. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] When we talk about taxes, we also need to talk about communities. Municipal finances are highly dependent on income. That's the federal tax revenue. Unfortunately, the crisis continues for a very long time. We have created a wonderful community billions package that strengthens investment. The municipalities are the largest clients in the regions. Unfortunately, the crisis continues too long, so we also need a second package. I am really pleased that there are already discussions between the government – especially Finance Minister Blümel – and the Federal President Riedl – about how we can strengthen the liquidity of the communities for the next year. I would like to thank you once again. Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[18:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20366	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next item is Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20394	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr Finanzminister! You rightly mentioned the form of your help in 2020 – the red tape of slow start, the really quick help in November – and also retrospecting that some things have gone wrong and some wrong or not so well. I can only join him. The question, however, Mr Finanzminister, is: What happens after the 7.1? That seems to me to be the parallel. We must not be late when we have to react or take precautions. That's one of the issues that actually concern me all the time. Ms Köstinger also stressed the importance of tourism. In the “FAZ” last week, for Austria, tourism is more important than the automotive industry for Germany. That's actually true. [[Abg. Hörl: That's it!]] However, I am also concerned that there is not only the hotelier or the host around the corner, but also the middle-sized entrepreneurs, such as in tourism, for example, the textile cleaners who do all these areas, of which tourism also lives indirectly. These are not directly dependent on tourism, but on the performance of tourism. That's one of the important things. You have to say quite honestly, there has been relatively little going. Den The area also covered the call of travel agents who said: Okay, we're also affected. I think I have to raise my hand now for those like my textile cleaning company, the textile cleaning company Leitgeb. These companies are actually only active in tourism and account for 100 percent of these services, are affected by them indirectly enormously and de facto almost no help. Perhaps we can find opportunities here as well. When it comes to the future, I believe that envy debates do not help us – when Mr Krainer speaks of Champagne and, by the way, has forgotten that the Austrian sparkling wine is in part as good as the champagne, only does not come out of the champagne. It's a regional name. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Neglected debates do not help us either, nor does this nova story, which is maddening me, because the tank tourism will continue. Mr Schwarz said that next year – as I heard it – a strong increase in the EGS will probably come next year, so that tank tourism will be stopped. De facto you pay twice as much for the car, and then you pay so much for the MOST. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I think it'll be a little dramatic. We will not move on by bike. When it comes to solidarity contributions, as Mr Krainer said: The solidarity contributions will not help us. The only thing that will really use people's economies is that we dramatically relieve the labour factor so that the unemployed get back to work. This will help us to relieve the labour factor in such a way that employees earn more and cost less. That's the jumping point! The next point you should address now, Minister of Finance, is self-capital strengthening measures for entrepreneurs. The second point is the provision of equity capital, possibly also in the form of a Mezzanine capital. The third is that we finally have to go about rehabilitating rather than closing, because in 2021 many companies will be affected by it, which, according to the current insolvency law, have no chance. So we have to launch rehabilitation measures. I would like that – and no envy debates. We have to think about it now. We also need clarity now, tourism now needs clarity, what is after 7.1, and tourism needs clarity as it continues in summer, but not because we already have the vaccine, but because it also needs economic measures that go into 2022.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20444	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20466	Madam President. Ministers! Mr. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! We've heard today: Tax, taxes, turnover received. I would like to take the two points out of this tax package, which are particularly important to me. The first is mobility. We want the kind of mobility that is good for all of us and for the environment to become cheaper. This includes, for example, the job ticket, i.e. public mobility, cycling, as well as rail freight. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, mobility, which is bad for the climate, which is bad for the environment, which is bad for the air, must become more expensive. Therefore, the NoVA, and therefore – yes, we stand by it –: SUV driving will be more expensive in the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, eco-socially also means that there is a discharge of people through the tax reform. To sum up, I can decide whether to spend my money on driving or other forms of mobility. By the way: Electromobility is of course excluded from the NoVA. The second example concerns repair, which has already been mentioned. How often has it happened to me that I have thought: Let me fix this now? Then I weighed, and actually it was cheaper to buy something new. It can't be that it's cheaper to throw something away than to fix it! This is what we are trying to change and reverse by reducing the turnover tax on repairs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For ecological reasons, a circular economy and at the same time the conservation of resources need. We want to promote repairs of bicycles, I have already said that, but also of shoes, other leather goods and clothing. There is still a reduction in VAT in another area I am pleased with: VAT on menstrual products is halved to 10 percent. In this case, we hope that VAT reduction will really be passed on to consumers – that has already been addressed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A fourth example of the reduction in sales tax: We maintain support for tourism, for gastronomy and also for book shops, as a result of the crisis, it remains at half the value added tax of 5 percent by the end of 2021. This is therefore a support which is normally not passed on to consumers, but rather is intended to remain with businesses, so that they can remain higher coverage contributions and increase the trading margin in the company. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Singer.]] As regards the support services: Over the course of the year, we have already decided quite a lot, from non-profit organisations to support funds and short work, to fixed-cost subsidies and credit guarantees, to revenue replacement and family hard-time funds – a wealth of support. What we are going to decide today is the COVID-19 Transparency Act, and in this context I am concerned about three points. First: The law lays down precisely what the National Council, about which we Members are informed. Secondly, The competent minister, the competent minister, shall inform the competent committee of these points, i.e. there may be a discussion, a dialogue. For example, the Hardfall Fund will be Minister Köstinger, who will report to the Agriculture Committee, and the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location will report on it to the Economic Committee. This makes sense, but at the same time we need the overview of third parties, and this will be done in the Financial Committee or in the Budget Committee: The Minister of Finance will report there on the overall level of support, and we will be well aware of this. In this context, I would also like to thank the Budget Service: Many of the budget services proposals could be implemented by this COVID-19 Transparency Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20563	Mr Reinhold Einwallner is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20584	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to Agenda item 22, which is about ‘taxable benevolence’. Tax treatment is likely to result in some employee asking one employee or another: Hmm, what's that? – They will rightly question this, because workers have no room to design when it comes to paying taxes. They get their tax benevolence documented each month on the payroll note, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP:And entrepreneurs don't pay taxes, do they?]] Now, of course, you could say, well, there's already a good background to linking Covid's contributions to the honest tax performance, which makes sense. But how does this make this government? What does this government mean by tax benevolence? – Now you cannot expect much from the ÖVP when it comes to tax charity, which is sufficiently documented. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: Hello, hello, hello!]] [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Only last week a former ÖVP Finance Minister was sentenced to eight years in prison – I think more documentation is not needed when it comes to tax charity in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hörl: But now it's enough!]] But the fact that the greens are so cheap is really amazing. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Tax benevolence for this government means that there is an exemption of EUR 100 000 – by EUR 100 000 you can deliberately shorten the basis of assessment and still get a promotion! That seems to be fiscal welfare in the sense of the ÖVP and the Greens – explain this once to an employee, a worker or an EPUler who does not have these spaces! Now it could be asked whether this government at least has taken care that companies do not receive subsidies if they have subsidiaries in tax havens – no, it does not have, that is still possible. Only the applicant may not have a registered office in a tax haven, but if the whole group loses the taxes on the Austrian Fiscus, it is still possible to receive grants, and that is a mistake that is heard correctly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next item is the question of when all these rules enter into force: They enter into force at 1.1.2021, and we see this critically. From the beginning we said: Only promote if entrepreneurs comply with the tax rules – from the beginning of the crisis. Now we are in a situation where these rules are to enter into force at 1.1.2021. The approach of colleagues at Fuchs, that he says that we should take this retroactively, is understandable and comprehensible – we only believe that there will be constitutional problems in regulating this retroactively. One should have done this immediately at the beginning, one should have done this from the beginning and done it quite well – but not so, because of this law the honest taxpayers feel lonely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20669	Now Mrs Federal Minister Margarete Schramböck has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20690	Madam President. Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a very special day, because it is another day where we can help companies. The Austrian economic system is an ecosystem made up of a wide variety of companies: small businesses, large companies, managers and family businesses, these are businesses in the most diverse industries. It is quite essential that we focus on keeping together and helping these businesses in the back of the shoulder. It is important to fight for every single company in Austria, and we have taken action to do just that. We do this with this package, which has been presented today and hopefully will also be decided with the votes of all, because helping companies can never be wrong. Our goal is to help each individual entrepreneur in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we consider what is important in this crisis, then the answer is: It is important to maintain liquidity, and in this crisis it is also important to create incentives. We both succeeded. We have kept liquidity high in the first months, we have managed to reduce the number of insolvencys than ever before. We have managed to get the companies through this crisis. It is about maintaining structures – it is not about criticizing small things there and there, but about preserving the structures of Austrian businesses in this crisis, so that they can preserve jobs and secure the future of Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us look at a measure in particular, namely the guarantees: The guarantees were a full success in the various sectors – we have already heard, especially in tourism – especially for SMEs, 16 900 guarantees of EUR 2.6 billion have been used. The AWS has processed these applications at high speed, for which I would like to thank the relevant team. It is important to extend these measures, which have proved to be good – these are measures that entrepreneurs tell us about, that they are good – accordingly. [[Abg. Loacker: Kaufhaus Österreich!]] We are in the biggest world economic crisis we have ever experienced – we are experiencing the biggest decline in the economy that we can think of and which our fathers have not even experienced. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] Nevertheless, it is important that we look forward, and there are the first analyses of how to proceed next year and what measures we need to take to ensure that companies do well next year. One of them is the investment premium that sets impulses – we're going to talk about today – and another is the savings ratio. Yes, we have managed that the people in Austria still have incomes, unlike in other countries. Yes, we have managed that they can put something on the side, that they can save, that they can take care of how they continue – when the economy starts again, then this money is available, and we must work together to ensure that it flows into consumption. This consumption will come next year, I am convinced – and we can do so together by ensuring that the Austrians continue to have money at their disposal in this crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another very important point for companies is the prospect of vaccines – and indeed, Austria is well ahead with the European Union, and yes, this not only increases exchange rates in the short term, but also tests on the one hand and vaccinations on the other give companies the opportunity to create hope. A fourth factor is that uncertainties will decline next year – in terms of world trade, uncertainty. We will have overcome the issue of Brexit, even if it is difficult, and the situation with the USA will again become increasingly clear. All these inputs clearly show that it is not a measure – and I would like to share it with you, because one measure is always asked for –: There is not one measure that helps. There is a pool of measures of more than EUR 50 billion available – measures that are being continued and, indeed, new measures will be taken to enable us to address the different sectors and the different needs in different times. Yes, that will come, but I am very sure that this will ensure the future of many companies and many jobs in Austria – also because of the measures that are being put in place today. Let me take a very brief look at a measure that my colleague Elli Köstinger has already addressed, because it is important: The travel agency industry accounts for 2 billion of sales in Austria and is important for the location. It is also very important for you to be able to avoid the Minister for Economic Affairs doing something she never wanted to do – that the basis for a trade is lost. It would be 400 companies if this measure were not adopted today. That is why I am also grateful for the good cooperation with Elli Köstinger and with Gernot Blümel, because together we have managed to create a template so that this will not be necessary and will help a part of our economy – this is an ecosystem from different businesses – to get over this phase. Thus, we can say next year that we have done everything we can to preserve the structures and then grow together again so that the Austrians can continue to live in prosperity in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20757	The next item is Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20778	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are dealing with the various topics under these agenda items, and I should also like to try to make such a small move through these different issues. I want to start with the money laundering directive. Dear SPÖ, I think this is quite exciting: to argue and to say in committee, yes, this is a contribution to combat money laundering better, and then to be against it again in plenary. – This has to be explained to voters, which is already a very remarkable achievement that is brought there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] Please agree, perhaps bring in the suggestions for improvement later! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] One could of course believe that SPÖ's proposals for improvement are almost once again a threat. This is already a special way of doing things, I would like to stress this explicitly; even colleague double-builder agrees, I take this away from the acceptable nick. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... wrong accusation!]] Second topic, Transparency Act: The basis for the rapid aid – and I remember, for example, sales in gastronomy, 14 days later, aid can be paid – was an authorisation given by Parliament to the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, of course there are extensive reporting obligations. These reporting obligations have been extended once again, which strengthens cooperation between Parliament and the Government, and of course we welcome this explicitly. Third topic: NoVA elevation. I'm not afraid of this issue. First of all, I would like to clarify: Everyone is always talking about the nova increase, but we are talking about the nova increase for vehicles with high CO2 emissions. Mr. Pöttinger, I'm already with you, of course you're right. [[Abg. Loacker: It pays every Vienna... tax!]] If you want to act ecologically as an entrepreneur, then you should also have the technical means – this hint of the economy is totally right, and I think you have to look closely at it, my colleague, Black, that this freedom of choice you have referred to is also given. It is, of course, true that we are setting tax measures in the fields with high CO2 emissions, because – and I am convinced of that too – it takes action in different fields if we want to achieve the climate change targets that we all want to achieve together, I believe. I would like to stress that a lot has been set in motion, especially with the new budget, but we need a stronger ecologicalisation of the tax system. Mrs Doppelbauer, I have already said this in committee: I think the NEOS concept is far too short. [[Abg. Double farmer: No!]] Just to say, one increases the EAST or makes a CO2 price and on the other hand reduces the charges for work, takes too short. [[New call of the abg. Double farmer.]] It's a little more differentiated. We need to look at social groups: How do we deal with the low income group, which, for example, does not pay taxes? [[Abg. Deimek: Tax...!]] We need to look at the economic location in a very specific way, I also expressly say that – for what do we have of it if we are an ecological model student but have a high level of unemployment? Thirdly, we also need a balance between urban and rural areas – of course, in urban areas it is easier to switch to public transport than in rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double builder]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] That's an exciting task. I think we have a common basis, and I really want to underline this option to encourage these schemes; the goal must be to reward climate-friendly activities. I believe that with this basis we have a very good basis for the discussions over the next few weeks and months, which I look forward to personally. [[Abg. Deimek: Exactly! By giving them that...!]] Finally, I would like to address a subject that is really my heart – Mr Hofinger has already spoken about it – that is this voucher action. Now we know that we are still in the biggest pandemic, in the biggest health crisis and in the largest economic crisis in the Second Republic – even though some do not want to see it true. [[Abg. Deimek: When people are unemployed, they don’t make an eye anymore...!]] It hurts me very much when I notice that this is sometimes played down despite high levels of infection and despite a situation in which we may need a third lockdown in January. The Christmas celebrations cannot take place – and the idea of this 365-euro voucher possibility, which comes very strongly from our clubman, from our ÖAAB-Bundesobmann August Wöginger, who has negotiated this with Klubobfrau Maurer, simply has a threefold advantage: for the companies – they can do something good and can stop it tax – it is attractive for the employees, because this voucher is of course pay-free and also free of social security contributions, and – this is important to me and I would like to appeal to the companies as well: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Get vouchers from your region! – it can strengthen the regional economy – that can be gastronomy companies, that can be regional food dealers, that can be the bio shop and much more. Benefits She is this possibility, she is a good alternative – and once again a great thank you to our ÖAAB-Bundesobmann, who has negotiated and brought it to the ground! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20926	The next speaker is Mrs Julia Herr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e20947	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Dear High House! The government's current proposals are very simple and clear: There is no plan for a fair financing of this crisis and also for a fair design of the fight against this crisis. We have actually experienced inconceivable conditions in recent months. We have seen, as on the one hand, the billionaire Stefan Pierer for his KTM group has claimed short-time work funds in millions of heights, but still had enough profit to pay out most dividends – even in millions of heights, tax money by the way – and on the other hand, we have seen the real system holders in the supermarkets and in the nursing homes for which we have categorised here still waiting for their special premium or their wage increase. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer:... well, not...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have experienced how Novomatic's gambling group recently received 2.4 million euros of tax money alone. By the way, the largest profiteer was the billionaire and owner of Johann Graf. He has a fortune of about 7 billion euros. I do not know now whether he is the richest or the second richest Austrian, but also for him there was the tax money. On the other hand, we have experienced that unemployed people have been fed off with a single payment of a few hundred euros. We have experienced how Amazon suddenly had three times as much turnover in the middle of the crisis, because the bookstores had to watch and watched, and we have then experienced on the other hand how the vice chancellor proudly proclaimed: They're getting a few hundred euros anyway. This crisis is continuing to tear the gap between the poor and the rich, which has already been dispersing for years, and that is not going to happen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It needs a fair financing of this crisis, because it meets us all. It must not be that the great majority is training them, while few are enriching at the expense of the majority. However, we need not only make our tax system fairer, we also need to make it more environmentally friendly, and the government recently presented an eco-social tax reform – even today – which unfortunately has remained a very small throw and which has been presented very surprisingly and quickly, on a Saturday, once again without consideration. However, some of the measures that are in place today are good, I must say, if we look, for example, at the exemption of the railway from the energy tax. It is completely absurd that the ÖBB as an environmentally friendly travel agent so far had to pay more taxes on the self-generated biostrom than one airline for kerosene. That is to say, we support this point, for example, but even here we recognize the half-heartedness of this reform, because you have specially designed the legislative text in such a way that it only applies to rail vehicles with alternating currents, but not to those with direct currents. What does that mean in German? – That means that you exclude the Vienna lines. There is also an amendment to that amendment. If we really want to promote public transport, please do not do half things, but we also protect regional connections! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You've also announced a great deal earlier that the repairs would now be cheaper. That's what we're doing, too, but if we look at what this is actually about, we're going to see: Shoes and clothing, leather goods, bed linen and bicycles. Get out! – This is the big, celebrated tax reduction you announce here. Everything about household appliances, such as washing machines, refrigerators, coffee machines, everything that concerns mobile phones, laptops, everything that causes these quantities of electrical scrap, which one urgently needs to reduce, is not there at all. To that end, I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21020	The motion you have now read was a motion for a resolution, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21035	That's right. - Thank you. As time goes out now, I also come to the conclusion, although I could address many other points – also once again to the question of what the impact assessment is. There's no such thing as that. How much CO2 you save, you don't know. There is also a lack of regulatory measures. It is not possible to regulate everything with higher taxes or higher prices. Sometimes it simply takes a regulatory measure which, for example, makes it clear, until when vehicles with drive systems that are environmentally harmful may still be in operation and when no longer. Then, too, all time to consider and develop possible alternatives until then. That means the list is long. There's a lot to do. I hope you both accept your requests. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:44]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21204	The motion for a resolution, which has been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The amendment to the Electricity Tax Act was distributed to Members and explained in the Basic Guidelines and is therefore also filed and under negotiation. Mr Gerald Loacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21231	Madam President. Parliamentary hanger has said that the NoVA will only be increased to the big cars. – I’m actually correcting: For a Fiat 500 Firefly Hybrid, no noVA has yet been paid, and now it will be 173 euros. That's where it starts.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21261	The next item is the speech by Mr Gabriel Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21286	Madam President. Mrs Tourism Minister! Mrs Minister for Economic Affairs! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! I am one of the last speakers to these agenda items, which we shall put to the vote immediately. If one has now followed the statements of the opposition parties, one could think that there is nothing really right. It's just all wrong what's being done there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Believe me: That's not how it is, it's certainly not. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm just telling you one thing: If we work quickly as this government does because of the corona crisis, it's wrong, it's too fast; it can happen here and there, too, some formal error; it's not all going along. If we're working too slowly, it's said people have to wait too long for it. – It's just all wrong. You know when it's right? – If one of the opposition parties is back in the government. Then everything is right, and otherwise everything is wrong. Since I was here in Parliament, no government has yet had such a great support in the population as the government under our chancellor, Mr Kurz and Mr Kogler, because they can deal with this crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Smoking: Maybe they're not in government for long!]] The Minister for Finance and the Ministers has already done everything in terms of content. I say it again: The government has helped in the labour market and in the economy, for example for Europe as a whole. The company is a member of the group of companies. It's still today. That's what these government and finance ministers promised Blümel back then, and so it is. If someone thinks it's not, then he's supposed to get out and say that. He can't come out because I also inquired. Now I only say on a single point why, according to you, everything is wrong, no matter what is going on: I can recall this – it is again on the agenda today – Mrs Federal Minister for Finance, Mr. Finanzminister, when it came to the reduction of VAT. The SPÖ voted against quite clearly. Do you know what the arguments were? – That’s not good, it’s not possible; they have to apply, they have to submit a request somewhere; we have to give them vouchers; the change from VAT from 20 to 5 and from 10 to 5 percent – this work and this bureaucracy! To each of you who has been in a guest house, the host will have said: This has been the best, most uncomplicated and simplest promotion ever brought to the table in this Republic. – We are now extending them until the end of the year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It has always been so that where you are at home, the euro has the least value. [[call to the FPÖ.]] But let's look at what you say internationally about Austria! The Minister of Finance has already said what the IMF has said: Austria is first and foremost in this support for the labour market and for the economy in Europe. You know what Oxford University says? – By quantifying the extent of economic aid, Austria has reacted strongly early, has consistently maintained a very high level and has further expanded it in October. – I mean, Oxford University in America is certainly not influenced by us. Just listen to what is said internationally! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Do you know what the German newspapers are writing, for example, the “world ”? Of which we know that it is really a qualified, serious leaf: ‘Austria succeeds in Germany’. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... unemployed!]] [[Abg. You've got to laugh at it yourself!]] While the software for the November assistance is still being worked on in Germany – the Germans have announced it earlier than our Finance Minister – a large part of it has already been paid out in the neighbouring country of Austria. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Guys, this is work, and that's the one that's been working since 15. March Day and night work – I tell you quite honestly – is allowed there and there a small error in form. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Do you know who's not making mistakes? – The one sitting in the log and just talking g’ Couldn’t do anything wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21403	The next item is the speech by Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please. [[Abg. Obernosterer turns to President Bures.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you can speak again. I have already given the floor to the next speaker. Please, Mr Hafenecker.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21430	I have always said that Mr Obernoster would have been the better Minister for Finance. I hope there's going to be sometime to rethink. We have now also received the best economic data from the Lesachtal – thanks many times! [[Cheerfulness and applause at FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Things are happening here today in the high house in general interesting things. I used to get frenetic applause from parts of the Greens for asking whether the change in the NOVA is really as targeting as it is. I have taken it to heart, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I will now provide you with the appropriate help and bring in a motion for an amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] That means nothing but to undo your improper NoVA increase attempt accordingly. I think it would be an hour's commandment. As there is obviously already a split among the Greens in this regard, I am in favour of voting on it by name, so that you can also say at the Federal Congress who was finally against the NoVA increase. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] [[18:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21570	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Now again, Mr Gabriel Obernosterer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21618	Again: Madam President. Ladies Ministers and Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I forgot earlier that we still have an amendment to make – I think he was, and I think, distributed – namely, Mr Karlheinz Kopf and Mr Mag. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues. It is about the liability of the ÖHT for the travel agencies. The Federal Minister has already explained this in depth. I would like to say two more sentences: It is about that the only insurance that has made these failures of travel agencies has gone out due to the corona crisis. The liability that this insurance has taken over now takes over up to a maximum amount of EUR 300 million and, in individual cases, up to EUR 20 million. This amendment, I believe, has been properly tabled. - Thank you many times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Super, thank you!]] [[18:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21836	The request has now been properly submitted, it has been explained in the broad guidelines, distributed to the Members, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Josef Schellhorn spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21866	In his excitement, Member Obernoster claimed that Oxford is in America. – I’m actually correcting: Oxford University is located in Oxfordshire District, on Thames, 90 kilometres northwest of London.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21891	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21915	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the more or less silent and secret - at least this has happened to me - motion for a resolution on community finance and I do not want to leave what is being done there uncommented. I would like to start with Mr Hanger, who has said that this is a special way of doing things. I believe that as far as the EIA and also the Greens are concerned, we are experiencing a very special course of action, namely that they now, at once, try to teach you and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs for half a year, recognize how necessary it would be to finally provide additional financial assistance to the communities, and quickly bring in a motion for a resolution that is insignificant here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think it is a bit strong that we had the budget debate here three weeks ago and decided on the budget and the government did not even manage to include it in the budget, namely that the communities really get additional financial assistance. That means that what you want to do now is really not covered as far as the budget is concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I would just like to remind you how all of them are marching, unfortunately also ÖVP mayors, when we said three weeks ago, how necessary it would be for something to happen now, otherwise there will be reductions in performance or increases in fees. You're all marched up and said it's all not a problem, we shouldn't talk all bad. You talked to your 31 mayors, said they all don't have a problem. Now you're swissing back and forth, really excited you ran half an hour back and forth, so that you can bring together a motion for a resolution with which you ask yourselves to work, with which you ask yourselves to do something – that is in fact not. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] That's why I just want to hold on – also for the public –: What you're bringing in here is probably only meant for once again to announce that you might be producing a headline again. You actually admit that you are asking yourself to decide on a package of help for congregations. I'm sorry, you just need to do it, you don't have to ask yourself! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Or does it perhaps mean – because in this motion for a resolution the Minister of Finance is also asked – that you may already have noticed that there is a piece of refusal to work in the Ministry of Finance? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Is the motion for a resolution perhaps intended to call on the Minister of Finance to make his work correct and proper? Is that why there is this motion for a resolution? I would like to say that if we take on a subject that we are now discussing here for half a year and sometimes ask you to do something, because at last something should come out a little more than three lines of motion for a resolution, in which you ask yourselves to do something. It's important that you finally say when it comes, how it comes, and at what height it comes. In fact, she remains guilty of this request. Therefore save us this spectacle, because it is no more than just a spectacle!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e21993	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22018	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! I can actually seamlessly join my colleague, Mr Kollross, who mentioned the motion for a resolution that you have put yourself today, and that we are finally trying to help the communities. So I have to tell you, over half a year ago, we called for help to the churches. That was not something that was not foreseeable, it lacked over 2 billion euros. Today, the municipalities close their households by minus 10 to 15 percent of the income. That is, every congregation will have to have a finish this year. Next year's revenue will be reduced again by the restrictive measures imposed by this Covid government. In other words, the communities not only stand the water to the neck, but they reach up to the head. This is a totally non-responsible policy that is being pursued towards the communities. The federal government spends 25 percent more money, takes up debt, the countries do the same, and you know that the communities cannot do this on their own, because they are bound by appropriate permits from the country or the federal government. You let the communities hang to the end, this is irrational politics! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The communities provide child care, old-age care, they receive the schools and, and, – they care for everything that is needed in everyday life, what is needed in the families. You drive it to the top, you let it escalate, and at the end comes a zero-eight-fifteen resolution request: The Federal Minister, the government is invited to help the communities. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Last week the communities received a letter. The Federal Chancellor gave a press conference and said there: Mass tests are now being carried out. – The letter reads as follows: The municipal staff have to carry out these tests, the municipality has to organize these tests. The fire brigade has to help there and take over the organizational activities. – You wouldn’t even get to the line if you didn’t have the communities, but you let this level of administration hang in our federal state to the end. That's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22069	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Financial Committee. [[19:00:55]] Vote on agenda items 14 to 22
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22096	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Budgets, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Do the clubs want a session break? - That's not the case. First of all, the present referral requests must be put to the vote. On item 15 there is a referral request from Mr Krainer. I shall be voting on this item to refer it back to the Financial Committee. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is also a referral request from Mr Krainer on agenda item 18. I shall also vote on the fact that I refer this item back to the Financial Committee. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. There is also a referral request from Mr Krainer on agenda item 21. I'll vote on that too. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is also a referral request from Mr Krainer on item 22. I shall vote on this as soon as possible. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Draft new insurance supervisory legislation 2020, title and receipt in 249 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Draft federal law, which amends the Account Register and Account Survey Act, the Financial Market Money laundering Act, the Banking Act and other laws, into 474 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Members Mag.a Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 8. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted. Here, too, I expressly present the verba – – I correct: [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] The draft law is not adopted, so there is no legislative decision. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Draft Federal Law on the New Credit Agreements with the International Monetary Fund, together with the title and receipt in 465 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Argentine Republic on the elimination of double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes and on the prevention of tax reduction and circumvention, in 355 of the supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Draft COVID-19 Tax Act in 492 of the Supplements. A supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, will be tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Dr Jakob Schwarz, colleagues and colleagues, as well as a request for a separate vote by Mr Krainer. Therefore, I will first of all vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals referred to above, following the classification of the draft law and taking into account the desire for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment concerning Article 1, insertion of new points 1a to 1d. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. The deputies' head, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment amendment concerning Article 1, insertion of new points 1 and 2 and resulting renumbering and amendments to the new point 8. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 9 (old). If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, this request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendments previously adopted. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The deputies' head, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an additional proposal concerning Article 1, insertion of a new point 11a and new points 371 and 372 in point 23 (new). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment or amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 21 (old), insertion of new points 366a to 366c and amendment to point 368. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the renumbering previously adopted and insertions in paragraph 23 (new). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The deputies' head, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues have a supplementary or amendment amendment concerning Article 2 and Art. 3 Z 3 lit. d. Whoever joins these changes, I'm looking for a sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary motion tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Kopf, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues on the insertion of a new point 4 in Article 3. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on the amendment or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Kopf, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues on Articles 5 and 9. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who accede to these amendments to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority in third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on 'Solidar levy for millionaires instead of tax millions for gambling companies and luxury hotels'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Manfred Hofinger, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues and colleagues on “Safety of municipal finances in the crisis”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[119/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Julia Elisabeth, Mr, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Repairs do not only favour shoes and clothing'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Draft Covid-19 Transparency Act, title and receipt in 488 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Draft federal law amending the SME Promotion Act and the Guarantee Act in 491 of the Supplements. The Members have a head, Mag. Dr Jakob Schwarz, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. The deputies' head, Mag. Dr Jakob Schwarz, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Draft federal law, which amends the Income Tax Act, the Standard Consumption Tax Act and the Electricity Tax Act, into 493 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Members Hafenecker, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment tabled by Members, ladies and gentlemen, as well as a request for a vote on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendments, following the legislative classification and taking into account the desire for a name-based vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Hafenecker, Mr MA, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 2 and the resulting renumbering. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the deletion of Article 2 and the resulting renumbering, to put “Yes” votes, those who vote against, therefore, “No” vote in the urn. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Schalmeiner, to start the call for name.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22294	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end. [[The competent staff shall make the number of votes.]] [[The sitting was suspended at 7.20 p.m. and resumed at 19.26 a.m.]] I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 40, No votes: 131. The amendment tabled by Mr Hafenecker, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amesbauer, Angerer; Bernhard, Bösch, Brandtätter Helmut, Brandtstätter Henrike, Brückl; Deimek, double farmer; Ecker Rosa, Eypeltauer; Fuch, Fuchs, Prince. Count Martin; Hafenecker, Hofer, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Kainz, Kaniak, Kassinger, Krisper, Künsberg Sarre; Lauch, Loacker; Margreiter, Mühlberghuber; Ragger, Rauch, Tireberger, Ries Christian; Schelhorn, Scherak, Schmedlitz, Shetty, Stefan, Steger Petra; Worm; Singer Wolfgang. Members voted with ‘No’: Baumgartner, Bayr, Becher, Berlakovich Nikolaus, Blimlinger, Brandweiner, Bures, Bürstmayr; Deckenbacher, Diesner-Wais, Disoski, Drobits, Drozda; Ecker Cornelia, one-waller, El-Nagashi, Engelberg, Eßl; Fischer, Fürlinger; Gahr, Gerstl, Gödl, idol, Count Tanja, Grebien, Greiner Karin, great builder, Hamann Sibylle, Hammer Lukas, Hammerschmid, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechenberger, Heinisch-Hosek, Herr, Himmelbauer, Hintner, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzleitner, Hörl; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli; Kaufmann, Keck, Kirchbaumer, Köchl, Köllner, Kollross, Koza, Krainer Kai Jan, Kucharovich, Kucher Philip, Kugler Gudrun, Kühberger, Kuntzl; Laimer, Leichtfried, Lercher, Lindinger, Litschauer, Lopatka; Mahrer, Marchetti, Matznetter, Maurer, Melchior, Minnich; Neßler, Neumann-Hartberger, Niss Maria Theresia, Nussbaum; Obernosterer, Oberrauner Petra, Ofenauer Friedrich, Ottenschlager; Pfurtscheller, Plakolm, Pöttinger, Prammer, Prince; Reimon, Reiter, Rendi-Wagner, Ribo, Rössler; Salzmann, Saxinger, Schalzer, Scharzenberger, Schatzenberger, Scheucher-Pichler, Schmidhofer, Schmidhofer, Schmabel, Schroll, Schwarz Gabriela, Schwarz Jakob, Seemayer, Sieber Norbert, Silvan, Singer Johann, Smolle, Sobotka, Stammler, Stark, Steinacker, Stocker, Stöger Alois, Stögmüller, Strache, Straster; Tanda, Tashner, Totter, Door; Vogl, Voglier, front winkler; Weber, Weidinger, Weratschnig, Wimmer Petra, Wimmer Rainer, Wöinger; Yildirim; Zarits Christoph, Zopf, Zorba.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22489	We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. – I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to Rule 3. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to it to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Draft federal law, in 494 of the Supplements on the basis of the COVID-19 Pandemic, on the basis of which the Federal Government is promoted. There is an amendment tabled by Mr MMag. DDr. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Member of the MMag. DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Sections 1, 3, 4, 9 and 10. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of this in order to have an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:29:04]] 23. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on the Government Template (469 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the E-Government Act, the Passgesetz 1992, the Driving Licence Act and the Power Driving Act 1967 (495 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22598	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22628	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Values Advisors! The draft eGovernment Act here is intended to take further steps to improve Internet activity for consumers through electronic ID and to create opportunities that were not so easy up to now. This is, in principle, welcome, but there is a lack of data protection assessment and the issues of data security have not been adequately answered, nor in the Committee, but Petra Oberrauner and Katharina Kucharovichsnoch will address it. I would like to focus on technology per se and dealing with this technology, because we lack the essential basis for the decision-making of detailed measures such as these. And what is that? – We lack a broad-based, socially debated national strategy in dealing with digitization and artificial intelligence, because artificial intelligence is in the process of throwing our living and working worlds completely over the pile, and that is why we have to deal with ourselves as a society. What is available is a paper from the robotics board, yes – but this paper has not been discussed in committee or in the House and has not been presented. I would therefore like to take you to a thought experiment: What if we were not just users of computers, data and software, what would be if we were not just recipients filtered by algorithms with unilateral information on social media and the Internet, or what if we could not only apply for a driver's license electronically, but if we were all at least Is it possible to understand how these technologies work if we have control of what we expect from artificial intelligence as a society? It is not all that technology can do well, and I say that as a technologist out of conviction. There is a country that has set itself this process, the broad social discourse, and that is once again Finland – little surprising. Since 2016, all students have been learning from the 1st century onwards. Class with very playful programming exercises dealing with artificial intelligence to make understandable what this technology can and to use it. But not only the little ones learn, the adults are also trained. The teachers as well as the seniors, because there is a six-week online course with 5 to 10 hours of training society, in order to be able to have a discussion about what Finland wants from artificial intelligence. 550 000 people have already completed this course. This set up a challenge for companies, and also employees of the Ministries have participated and completed these courses. A broad dialogue is therefore possible. What Finland has still done is: It has already invested intensively in artificial intelligence, in research and development in this area, hundreds of millions of euros, and that for years! Thus, they are again pioneers in Europe. They are innovation leaders and not innovation followers like us. So it takes an intelligent strategy, a broad social discourse to define where the journey with digitization, with artificial intelligence should lead us. That's exactly what we're doing in Austria, I'd like so much. If we look at the topic of new technologies, let's look at the topic of artificial intelligence! Let's see that we can equip our people with the basic competences that we can give them the know-how in order to form! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us see that we invest in research so that we can succeed in this process so that we become innovation leaders and so that we in Europe can get solutions on artificial intelligence and do not always leave it to the Americans or the Chinese to create I-Clouds and others. Let's shape our future! This is what I wish for from all of us, from Parliament, from the government groups – and the dialogue on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22692	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22714	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I can't quite understand, Mr Hammerschmid. You're just getting to talk about every subject in a little bit. You cannot misrepresent the transfer of the E-ID, the M-Government by saying that the strategy for artificial intelligence is not yet in place. That's absurd! One doesn't really have something to do with the other. I think that is really no reason to vote against how you will do it today – on the contrary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that today we will take another and an important step towards E- or M-Government. We have already created the possibility with the Digital Office, easy and electronic direct via To do the smartphone, thereby saving the way to the office, saving time and, above all, saving a little bit of money, and one has to say, especially in times of Corona, it is not only pleasant, but it is honestly also health-saving. Many Austrians already have experience with this mobile app. 45 percent of the Austrians own one, and the good thing is, we are just going one step further now, because we are making access even easier. It used to be with the mobile signature that you need two devices. Nowadays, this is possible only with the smartphone if you have these secure features, such as a face ID or a touch ID. The login just works via a device, and that's good. The process is simple and clear: You have to be at least 14, you have to have a smartphone with a touch ID or a face ID and you have to have the app Digital Office installed. I don't think it's easier for us to do it. With this electronic identity, we also lay the foundation stone for the fact that we will make certificates available on a digital basis later on, so simply make them available on the mobile phone, for example, with the driver's license and with the license. And I have to say, I'm very happy about that. I forget – I am honest – once again and again the license, and in the future I always carry it with me, because I just always have my phone with me. – This is important, and I am very happy about it. The possibility of an E-ID via the mobile phone also fundamentally and positively distinguishes us from other countries. We're one step further. In other countries that have an E-ID – as they call it – this is often still a digital card. We actually have them on our smartphone and are therefore really pioneers in Europe. We are on the subject of eGovernment, and I would like to stress this once again, quite far ahead. We are in Europe to Estonia and to Malta in third place, and I can honestly say that you can also rejoice. [[Weratschnig and Mr Jakob Schwarz were in favour of the ÖVP.]] Our Ministry of Digitalization has always pushed the issue of eGovernment very much into what we have seen in the introduction of the Digital Office, and the result is that we have moved far forward in the field of eGovernment, mobile government. We have an improvement of almost 25 percent, and with the introduction of the E-ID we will now take a fundamental step forward. I do not wish to mention that the Digital Office and esterreich.gv.at are also cited internationally as best-practice models or projects, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is more objective than the criticism of the opposition. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Tashner.]] In order to introduce a European E-ID, too, this step is crucial, because in 2021, on behalf of the Heads of State or Government, a proposal is to be presented by the European Commission, and we are already a step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, the Digital Office is owned by half of the Austrians and is also actively used by a large majority of them. It is an important contribution to the M-Government, to the red tape reduction and simplification. The E-ID is a further development of this digital office and of related advantages, and I would say that is a classic case of strength. Let us look forward to the possibilities we create with the introduction of this E-ID! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22795	Mrs Mag. Dr Petra Oberrauner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22819	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators at home! I would like to refer to the field of electronic identification development. This is basically a welcome step to improve digital service in the public sector. However, when it comes to biometric data, these are fingerprints, eye recognition, it is already reasonable that you ask for a second time, especially carefully dealing with it and acting responsibly. The Federal Labour Chamber and the Data Protection Council have complained that very complex technical operations relevant to the people are described in the novelle rudimentary and incomprehensible, but are relevant to data protection. We therefore believe that this novelle must be easy to understand for all, that the electronic identification must work technically in such a way that one can understand what happens to one's own sensitive data, which can not be done with it. After all, the fingerprint is something unique. Especially in the case of sensitive personal data such as fingerprints, the unwanted use – that we, consumers and the population do not know where the data is going – is easy to exclude. We are in favour of having so much clarity in the language that we know in the legal area what is happening and what is not happening, and that if we give a digital fingerprint or an eye recognition as a proof of identity, we also know and can be sure that these data will remain with us and will not be misused. Another point, which is at least important to us as a SPÖ, is the freedom of decision. There must also be the possibility for citizens who do not want to deal with this digitally, quite analogously, simply to complete an application for a passport. There must always be an alternative. It is a fundamental right that people should be able to exercise their rights as citizens in the public sector. This applies particularly to those who do not have such devices, who do not have technical knowledge, and to those who are careful and do not want their data to be managed digitally. Behind the platforms on their smartphones are still international corporations, and that is why we believe that the novelle needs to be corrected and extended by these points, and, as Mr Hammerschmid has already said, that the missing data protection impact assessment is essential. If this is done and we get a proposal that is understood by a normal citizen, a normal citizen, so that they know what happens to their data, so that they know if they have such proof of identity on their phone, what can happen to it or what may not happen if that is ensured, then we will, of course, look at the text and perhaps agree. But in the form it is too uncertain, too little understanding and too rudimentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22860	Mr Christian Hafenecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22881	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have always voted in favour of the electronic driver's license and will do so today. On the one hand, it is important, as the colleague has already said before me, that the principles of data protection are respected, that it is truly comprehensible that the data are treated confidentially and that no abuse can happen. On the other hand, of course, it is important that it is based on voluntaryity. For us, the electronic driver's license is the logical consequence: first the paper driver's license, then the check-card driver's license and now also the possibility of the electronic driver's licence on a voluntary basis. In principle, I think we have implemented a long-term demand of FPÖ. Data protection is important. How then, finally, the withdrawal of the driver's license – should one happen – will see if the phone will be taken off or not, one may have to discuss in detail; but I think there is a good proposal. [[irradiated]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22921	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22945	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! We have a law before us, which includes changes to the e-government law, the passport law, the driving licence law and the driving law; a law that is so extremely complicated and so difficult to read that one asks whether the intention is or a quick action that is not depleted. I think it's both. In concrete terms, matter is another step: that is why – it has been mentioned – to implement an E-ID. This also serves as a basis for making the E-Führerschein available to all from spring 2021. Also in the case of passports, changes are planned, based on the E-ID; as precisely, however, unfortunately, cannot be answered yet. One thing is clear: The data of the electronic identity card should be used as a basis for all of this. In addition, data should also be provided to third parties – yes, with the consent of the user or user. But how exactly is this associated with the privacy and protection of data? Mrs Minister, it is a matter which contains very large open questions, which have simply not been answered, not in the Committee and also today; perhaps this is still happening, but not yet. It is about very, very sensitive data and above all about dealing with it. Where is the data protection assessment, Mrs. Minister? Why do you think there was no need? Which company is responsible for programming the E-ID? And how do you guarantee if technology or biometric data – it was previously the speech of Face ID or Touch ID – are used by manufacturers of smartphones and operating systems to ensure that these data are processed securely and are not used unlawfully? And: Can you guarantee that data transfers to the USA are excluded from large corporations? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The use of the data of the E-ID for private companies must also be clearly in line with the GDPR, and I can really refer to the whole, very great criticism of the Data Protection Council, whose opinion has not been reflected. I find it extremely problematic that the Council was not involved at all, and I ask myself quite honestly: Why not? In summary, I should like to stress: At first glance, an E-ID as a further development of the citizen card seems to be extremely practical, honest. On the second Take care: The amendment is incomprehensible, leaves questions open, does not involve the Data Protection Council, and it is uncertain whether it is GDPR compliant. That's why our conclusion: For us there is definitely no agreement for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e22996	Mr Hermann Weratschnig is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23018	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The current novels provide the basis for the further development of the citizens' card concept to electronic identification. In particular, it is a question of laying the foundations for preparatory work and accompanying measures for a pilot project to be launched from April 2021 onwards. What does it need to do? It takes adaptations and additions as far as technology and implementation are concerned; and, of course, as mentioned above, this matter should happen voluntarily and exclusively with the consent of those concerned, that is, I think, very central. This should also be implemented in the case of passports. The innovation of the driving licence law and the motor vehicle law is intended to provide the basis for a digital driving licence and also for the digital licence. So in the future there will no longer be any obligation to join, which should also be a goal. I also refer here to the chapter on digital management measures under the Government Agreement, where we have regulated and agreed. The electronic driver's license is therefore an essential step, a meaningful use of digitalization. We are going with the time, in our conviction, to deal with data very sensitively, to save costs, to facilitate processes and, of course, to allow maximum transparency to be exercised. There was also a debate within the Transport Committee on a request from the SPÖ, by Mr Stöger. After this debate, the Transport Committee subsequently agreed to submit a motion for a resolution by all the political groups on the request of Mr Stöger, who was postponed in the Committee on Transport. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Two sentences on this request: What's that about? – The application aims, in particular, to examine the possibility of extension of driving licences due to medical Opinion on stamp fees and administrative charges to be released. Cost replacements are not affected; approximately 20,000 people are affected, especially people with disabilities. We are talking here, I think, of a very important measure to be examined. That would be the meaning of this request. I would ask for a broad agreement. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[19:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23154	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23183	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we welcome the progress of innovation around the E-ID, especially after some comments have been made in the review. In principle, however, I would like to say a little bit about the whole issue of digitization, because I think that often goes down. Mr Niss mentioned earlier that we are great and that we are third parties in Europe. It is fair to say that not only we as Austria have slept a few things, but also all of Europe or a lot of countries in Europe – except Estonia and Malta, which are ahead of us, which in many steps are really much more important. If you look at how Estonia is set up and imagine where we would be in Austria today if we had been involved at the time: Estonia has already introduced an E-ID in 2002. 18 years ago, i.e., the E-ID in Estonia has been de facto since this year. There you can see how far we are in many things behind. For comparison: In Austria, the registration register was digitised in 2002. Let us look at how Estonia deals with the accompanying appearances of digitization: After all, digitalization is not only to introduce any things or to convert processes to digital processes, but of course there are accompanying phenomena and measures that need to be led in the way, for example on cybercrime, cyberattacks and so on. Estonia has had a major cyber-attack in 2007 and has had to react, and since then it has been the absolute top in Europe, because they are best placed because they have drawn the lessons from it already in 2007 and unfortunately we have not really focused on it yet. Even if you look beyond that, the topic of Blockchain: a topic where we all believe it is so modern and so on. – Estonia has been relying on the blockchain since 2008, since 2008 the blockchain has been an integral part of all eGovernment systems in Estonia. The whole is integrated into the X-Road system. This X-Road was introduced in 2001, which is 19 years ago. In Austria, the Data Protection Act was adopted at that time. You see, we're far from top class in many things. I warn you that we'll be here now and say, Yeah, E-ID, it's finally ready! – Yes, at last it is that far and it is an important step, but there are still a lot of steps to be taken, because in many points we are more than 20 years behind the top; and that is Estonia, and we have to compare ourselves with them from my point of view. Perhaps in general with the AI strategy, because this has been the subject again and again in Parliament in recent times: Estonia has had such a thing since 2019, we are still waiting in Austria. I hope she'll be presented here soon. I hope it's really that far next year, because that's exactly the steps we have to take to really get to the top of the world, and unfortunately the E-ID, as we will decide here today, is not enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23230	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Margarete Schramböck spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23259	Mr President. Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points that have been specifically mentioned, but in principle also that electronic identity, electronic identification, is an important step. Yes, it is a building block that we implement in a digital administration, but an important building block. It is true that the countries, not only Estonia, but others, already have this electronic identity and this proof. It is all the more important that you agree today that we introduce the electronic identity in Austria. I've already started this in the first government I've heard. It is now time to provide this electronic identity to the Austrians. It is also important that it is something you can use, but not have to use, and that the acquisition of the electronic identity is linked to the pass issue and every time, for example, when you renew the passport, you can get this electronic identity if you want it. What is also very important is that we also transmit those who use the mobile signature at the moment. That's over a million people; 1.2 million Austrians already use it, not only once a year, but daily or often, for different services. We also need to give you the opportunity to use this service accordingly. To address some of your topics: The Data Protection Council has been mentioned. We were at the meeting of the Data Protection Council. I can assure you that the Data Protection Council has delivered opinions, we have dealt with them point by point, and these proposals from different areas have been incorporated into numerous amendments to the assessment text. I would like to thank all those who have participated in the video date I have offered, all from the FID Committee and others, where we have been able to discuss many of the open questions accordingly. Estonia has been addressed. – Yes, Estonia has built its solutions, its digital management on the green meadow. We are a country that has a long tradition in administration, similar to Germany and other countries. If you look at Malta, for example, this is also a very small state, you can see that it is important that we also allow direct access to those who are not so much at home in this digital world that the official routes can all be made personally. This is very important to me, we have a large share of older people. Even if, in a certain situation of life, we decide that we like to go personally, then it must and must be possible. This is not possible, for example, in countries that are always mentioned, but which are behind us as far as digital administration, such as Denmark, is concerned. I can assure you that we will not, for us it is always important that the option exists. It has also been addressed the topic of the digital divide. I would also like to address and invite you to this, because we too have such a platform, not only Finland. We have the platform Fit4Internet, where courses are offered for older people, which we have forced. We have even changed to television now, because it is no longer possible for the older generation to be reached in person. To close the digital divide is, I believe, something that unites us and where there are appropriate measures. The security of electronic identity and electronic identification shall be ensured, as it shall be completely different: Nothing is stored in this electronic identity, there are no data on it. The security measures such as the Irisscan or the fingerprint remain on the device, which are not transferred anywhere. What you can do with it is to take office – and that is safer than it was before, because this security is also due to the fact that this electronic identity is issuing an authority for the first time. In that case, it's the passport authority, that's this first check. If you have this electronic identity then you can use it for office routes, but you don't have to. It is not the comprehensive step in a digital administration, but it is a very important point that we pick up here, that we fulfil this point, that we do not go back there and offer additional services to Austrians, so I ask you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23314	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23336	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has developed a very good reputation in the field of eGovernment in recent years. A comparative study, which, I believe, has not yet been made available today, is the eGovernment benchmark, which attests to us that some 87 percent of the digitalization projects have been implemented in the administration and we reach a level of utilisation of about 62 percent. This is a very impressive value that has catapulted us at the top of Europe. But it is clear: We do not want and will not rest on this position, because of course there is much more to do. Especially in the term of office of Mrs. Federal Minister Schramböck, much has happened in this direction, especially in the direction of the digitization of the administration. One example I would also like to take up is the Digital Office, which provides citizens with many functions. With the E-Government Act to be decided today, we are now also laying the foundation for further digital services. We further develop the mobile signature to the e-identity, to the electronic identity, thereby creating more security. We rely on existing security measures that have already been established in other digital services – fingerprint or face ID has already been addressed – without, and perhaps also addressed to SPÖ, accessing biometric data, but we benefit from existing security mechanisms on mobile devices. Similar to data security and data protection, we also create in other areas. We simply use the existing possibilities. The arguments that have come from the SPÖ can only be considered as suggested, because one simply does not want to agree to this law. [[Abg. Kucharovich: That's a joke, isn't it?]] [[Abg. Greiner: These were very good and precise questions!]] Not only in the Committee, but also in an own appointment with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, we have dealt with precisely these points raised by Mr Oberrauner: the issue of the absence of access to biometric data. It is not working with US-American corporations or similar or anything else going on. The technical complexity of the law is also due to technology, because of course the law must also be the technical implementation. Accordingly, it is formulated. I understand, of course, with regard to comments on legibility and opportunities in this regard in the legislative process, but of course the law must also reflect what needs to be implemented at the end of the day. For data protection assessment, which is alleged to be missing: In the video conference with colleague Oberrauner and with the Ministry, it has been pointed out once again that the data protection assessment of course takes place in the course of the implementation together with the Ministry's data protection officer. I would like to expressly mention this, because it has been specifically discussed within the framework of this date. Thank you to the Ministry for having been able to deal with these questions after the committee in which they came up. I believe that we have here presented a good draft law which will ensure digitalisation in the administration and in many other areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23388	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation. Before entering the voting process, I ask whether the clubs wish to interrupt. - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 469 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Andreas Ottenschlager, Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Christian Hafenecker, Mr Weratschnig and Mr Johannes Margreiter, on the examination of the proposed law in 979/A (amendment of the driving licence law) in the context of a review process. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[120/E]] [[20:04:49]] 24. Point Report by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on amendment 1126/A by Mr Peter Haubner, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues concerning a federal law approving the federal law approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location, and the Federal Law on a COVID-19 Investment Premium for Companies (InvPrG) (591 d.b.) 25. Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23491	We now come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Erwin Angerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23521	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! For the third time, we are dealing with the Investment Premium Act – in principle, a reasonable economic promotion. It is a good thing to promote investment. We have also said from the beginning that one can do this – it is also useful – but have always voted against it, because the resolution, like many other aid packages, is not about the Ministry of Finance, but about the AWS. But what you see and also need to see in the Investment Premium Act is that it works. And why does it work? - Because it's the businessmen themselves. The companies that invest are, of course, the companies that make good sales, which are also doing well in the crisis. Many others who are bad are not thinking about investing, but about how they get over the rounds. Unfortunately, they were forgotten in the crisis, they were left alone. Let us look at the aid packages of this Federal Government as a whole: With regard to municipal financing, we have already addressed the community investment package today. Unfortunately, the community investment package has gone completely by the way, unfortunately it does not achieve any effect. 1 billion euros have been made available to the municipalities fictitiously, so far, according to a request from the Ministry of Finance, they have been able to collect 150 million euros from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] So 15 percent of these billions have been spent on investments in the municipalities. These investments are, of course, lacking in the economy. The municipalities are now simply no longer able to set up co-financing or meet these 18 criteria, which apply to investments for which they can use these funds. This is therefore a completely wrong approach, which is totally ineffective, does not come into the economy and will hardly help the economy either. The hardness fund was expected to provide 2 billion euros. 700 to 800 million euros have been paid out so far, which is about 30 percent. So the success rate is relatively low, Mrs Minister. There have been long discussions with the EU on the fixed cost grant until the fixed cost grant phase two has been re-established at all; many entrepreneurs suffer from this, cannot apply. For the first time, sales revenue has helped certain industries quickly – that is true –: Gastronomy and accommodation companies quickly received 80 percent of their turnover. You just looked at the Germans. The Germans are already rowing back because they say the approach of revenue replacement was wrong. You can't replace revenue, but you actually have to replace the profit, the cover contribution and the fixed costs – that's fair. One gets 80 percent of turnover replaced, it's overcrowded, and the other doesn't get anything. Unfortunately, there are many who remain and get nothing at all, Mrs. Minister. You know that, you have been contacted directly by a person concerned, you have also written back to her that they will deal with the issue in the next Economic Committee. It is about a company in Bad Gastein – Mr. Schellhorn will perhaps know it – about a sales shop that falls through the rust that gets nothing at all. The answer that the entrepreneur received from the Ministry after the Economic Committee was – she told us in writing – and unfortunately she won't get anything. She is a subcontractor and is dependent on commercial businesses or on the gastronomy and on the guests that remain natural, of course, has a total loss of sales and gets nothing, remains in the air. This concerns an entire industry – the whole supply area of gastronomy, with the beverage dealers and, and – which is really difficult and gets nothing at all. Your party, Mrs Minister, is always talking about regionalization, support for rural areas, and there is also a subject for the trade regulation – we have already discussed it in the last Economic Committee. The problem of the village shops: Today the village shops are often created by farmers, by self-marketers and then fall into the trade order at once, next they fall into the opening order and, and,. They get problems, they have to lock up again, their products can't sell. What's the ÖVP doing? – As always: She's bringing in a petition. Mr. National Council member of the Ovenauer Association, said that he would help and support them with the petition for the municipality of Neidling in Lower Austria, which has just such a problem with the village shop. I have tabled a request in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to amend the rules of commerce accordingly. That is exactly the demand of the Negotiators who support Mr. Ofenauer, and what you are asking for in your petition, Mr. Ofenauer, with this request at that time in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I am going to bring this back to you on December. [[Abg. Hanger:... Agenda item 24: Investment premium law!]] All the negotiators who may now be watching, and all the others who run the village shops and have problems with the trade order, should now observe how the ÖVP will act with its double-landiness here. I trust to bet that the application will be rejected again today and that you will not agree that the trade regulations will be adapted accordingly. You leave the people in the rain. You explain to them that you support them with appropriate petitions – they then run in the sand. They will be dealt with once in the committee and that was it. That's why I'm making the nail sample today and make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Since this is almost identical in the petition of the ÖVP, by Mr Ofenauer, I assume that you too agree today – in fact, I do not expect it, because you will reject it again. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[20:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23658	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Peter Haubner has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23687	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This item on the agenda is about the investment premium, but since Mr Angerer referred to the economic support and referred back to Germany again, I must say: I don't understand the criticism at all, because at first everything is perfect in Germany and everything works well, we should take it as an example, then we make a revenue replacement similar to the German model – but we made it better, because with us he works very well – and then you criticize it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Sometimes I'm so critical of something, something's already hanging. [[Phone call at the NEOS]] I can assure you, however, that the International Monetary Fund - I think that is a good measure - sees Austria in the support measures in the leadership position. We are spending 8 percent of GDP on spending and tax relief for the economy and therefore also for jobs – the Minister of Finance has already said it today. This means that we are 3 percent above the European average, ladies and gentlemen. I think we are spending a lot of money on the right measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would now like to devote myself to the investment premium. I believe that the investment premium is one of the measures that we need right now that we businessmen who would not normally invest because it is a bit difficult at the moment to support them to invest. The pleasure of this investment premium is that it will be used mainly by micro and small enterprises investing in digitalisation and ecologisation. So that's exactly what we wanted to achieve, and what brings us innovativeally into the future as a location. I am able to report from my constituency that large industrial companies, which have postponed investments over the next three years, are now investing and also contributing significantly to job security, not only in their own businesses, but also in companies that then accompany the implementation of these projects. So it is already a win-win situation: for those who invest, for those who can work there, and it also secures jobs – a measure that could not be more precise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] If you look at the total volume of the last few years, you can see that with these 2.4 billion euros that have been called up so far, investments of around 22 billion euros have been triggered – I think this is a very important point for the economy in Austria. In total, there are 55 000 applications, i.e. 55 000 small and medium-sized enterprises, large entrepreneurs and SMEs; we all reach with this support. This is the right measure for the business location, which is why I ask you to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23752	The next speaker is Dr. Christoph Matznetter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23781	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have already talked a lot about the “plowing, bad luck and pan service” today: Once again, we provide pan-help by, of course, agreeing with the investment premium that this will be increased again. Ladies and gentlemen, who has been listening to Mr Haubner, It has already reached 2.4 billion euros. Why can't you let us go to 4 billion euros now, so that we don't get back here in a short time? - A short question only on the edge. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schramböck.]] As I said, if our pan aid is needed, we'll help. I would like to continue with the aid of the pans, namely on the second subject: We will agree to the Covid-19 measures in professional law, but there is another pleite and panacea there, namely the civil engineers. In the implementation of the government template, which is now in the house, it has not been remembered that, if we involve interdisciplinary societies as a partner, civil engineers in a civil engineering society can in fact no longer have 50 percent of the voting rights and thus will undermine exactly what we want to prevent, namely that we are buying in and then every larger building company has its civil engineer and no longer needs a freelance. Mr President. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm here for this. Let's make a proactive pan aid, then we'll have less hoppalas! A small supplement, Mr Haubner: Yes, sales revenue is more unbureaucratic, but the same entrepreneurs who may have been able to tap this quickly for the lockdown can at the same time apply for the phase two fixed-cost grant for a few days. I recommend everyone to look at the form on FinanzOnline. I'm used to a lot of things from 40 years of tax consultancy, but that's the joke: This is complicated, because you will need a tax advisor!, every time you become reality, is unnecessary. A form in which you check periods up to the future and then have fields where you don't know if they are for a month or a year: Honestly, this is a Sudoku task that you might be solving on Sunday. Rework it! & Again: We like to come to pan help. Continued “Pleate, Pitch and Panning Service” is safe. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[20:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23912	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dr.in Elisabeth Götze is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23940	Mr President. Dear High House! Dear Seers! Mrs. Minister – I apologize for calling you the last time; it's nice that you've been here for so long! 22 billion, we have heard this amount before, and this is such an inconceivable amount that I have made the effort to consider: How much money is that? How can you somehow understand that? I then found: 1 million euros in hundreds of euros – five hundred euros are hardly available, I have never had one – are 30 centimetres. That is, if you actually stack 22 billion euros in hundreds of euros, you would reach both the big glockner and the attic, from the sea level, 6 600 meters. So it's inconceivable! This is the amount already triggered by the investment premium. This is what companies invest because they take advantage of the investment premium. [[Abg. Deimek: How quickly does a Boeing rise to this altitude?]] The incentive to take advantage of this investment premium is therefore obviously extremely high, and what we do with it is that companies are looking to the future for confidence in investing. They invest to a very significant extent in areas where the investment premium is particularly high – 14 percent for environmental investments. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thus, 40 percent, around 1 billion euros, totaling 1.2, 1.3, almost 1.4 billion euros, have already gone into environmental investments, 17 percent in digitalization, and a few investments in Health & Lifesciences. The rest of the investment goes into other investments, which is 7 percent. Yes, we have excluded cars with fossil drive from this investment premium, for example, because we want to promote e-cars more strongly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] An example: The company Mayr-Melnhof has made a huge investment in the Styrian Frohnleiten, EUR 100 million. It employs around 570 employees there and has invested 100 million euros in a new cardboard machine with digital sensors, so that less recycling fiber is needed and the cardboard becomes thinner and lighter. This shows that digitalization in this context is also good for the environment, i.e. less resource consumption. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] This is obviously a very big company that invests a lot. Unfortunately, companies can only calculate the investment premium from a minimum amount of EUR 5 000. I am therefore particularly pleased that, to a large extent, small businesses also benefit from the investment premium. Smallest companies make nearly 65 percent of the applications, which is at least 40 percent of the total requested volumes. This is how we decide on the third billion of the investment premium today. Perhaps, if companies are boldly investing in the new year – by the end of February the application is still possible – we need to improve again. I can imagine worse. This is really well-invested money – money that will be invested in our future, in jobs in Austria and in the future of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e23995	Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24020	Mr President. Minister! My predecessor, Mr Götze, meant that 22 billion euros of investment were triggered by the investment premium. This is basically wrong, because we are talking about an extension of the investment premium, and, Mrs Minister, we have already talked about this extension of the investment premium in the committee about the fact that we believe in principle that this is too short. Even if you went to 4 billion euros, they will soon be exhausted, because it is the most important basic principle to create incentives to invest so that companies invest on the one hand and on the other hand, order the creation of jobs. Mr Angerer has also made an important point – and with that I am now getting away from this investment premium, I just wanted to put it right –: The medium-sized companies, which are not so much concerned with tourism now, have enormous difficulties. There are subcontractors, but there are also quite other companies that have nothing to do with the administration of hot and cold food. Before I come to digitalization: The state apparatus is an area that you need a trade reform. If you create jobs, we also need to think about a trade reform. We have always been on a line with the FPÖ that a trade reform should be made as soon as possible: New trades also create new jobs. I've already been amazed that you've been holding this state apparatus in such a way that you've said we need to bring the old-fashioned bureaucracy in addition to this digital office. I think that's a wrong access, but that's about the same access as the one you've done to your home page, that's about the department store Austria. That's nothing but a company ABC, and you know that. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The amazing thing is what Mr Kopf said here, namely that the Chamber of Commerce did not contribute at all. So, on the one hand, it was obviously the Chamber of Commerce, which does not understand anything about the economy, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Digital, which does not understand anything about the digital – something else cannot be said about it. If the Chamber of Commerce has really not paid anything, you can ask: Then what was it? Nor can it have been competence if I look at the final product. It can't be that you live in the vision with such a product in the digital struma, so to speak, we're the country of digital artists and we're acting against Amazon or anyone else. That's ridiculous, and you know that. It's embarrassing, it's basically embarrassing when you talk about investment premiums in SMEs in digital terms – and we're talking about 3 billion euros – and for SMEs. You have 4.5 million euros in the budget for digitization. That's what I said last time: With the Amazon wakes up and is finished after 5 minutes, advertising campaigns. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You really want to create this digital display window in Austria and say that's great!Unknown term type: "%s".? I believe that we need to get back to the start here and really really need to invest in the digital infrastructure in the sense of sustainability. This has been a subject for a long time, and this has been the subject since 2013 when we talk about the development of rural areas – and again and again we talk about it – and yet we do not have billions available for digital infrastructure. And we're not even talking about the know-how and blockchain, as Douglas Hoyos has said, but we're talking first of all about getting the E on the phone that we might have 5G or anything, but not yet the competence, which AI means. I would like that to be done, and then I would like us not to sit down once again in February and increase the investment premium, but you must remember that 2021 is one of the most central years in which to create jobs, how to create incentives. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] And that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24096	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Margarete Schramböck spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24120	Mr President. High house! Today – and you say it correctly – will be voted on the investment premium. It is very important that we see a clear sign in this, namely a clear sign that the Austrian companies are in such a position to invest in this crisis too, and that we are able to maintain the structures in such a way that investment can now be made and they are investing in this crisis. That's not a company, that's not ten companies, that's not 200 companies, but there are 46 540 applications, of which 65 percent of micro-enterprises. It is therefore not only something for the large industrial enterprises, but also for the family businesses of Austria, which are strong and strong and are particularly concerned at the fact that they now have to invest in order to be more competitive afterwards. We want to support this from the government side. This is a great concern to me with this investment premium, and that is why it is so important and also a good sign that it is used strongly. When we look at whether our incentives, our incentives to digitization and ecologisation work, I can tell you: Yes, they work because over 50 percent of all applications are from this area. This too is good, because we support the digitization of our companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It has been mentioned as an example – Mayr-Melnhof Karton – and for this example I can tell you what the responsible CEO has clearly told me: If there had been no investment premium, they would not have started this investment now. You would have done it in two years – and who knows what is in the competition in two years, who knows what will happen then? That is to say, all the investments that are now being made increase the competitiveness of our companies, and that is also good. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Fischer and Mr Rössler on his work.]] They also discussed the topic of subcontractors: Yes, it needs another solution for the suppliers. Why Do I Say “Another One ”? – The subcontractors of course have access to all the funding that is available – to short work, to fixed-cost subsidies, to others – but of course there is an instrument on which the Ministry of Finance also works and to which we also supply inputs. It is important that we create this by the end of the year and take into account the particular situation of the suppliers you have also mentioned. This is on the radar of the Ministry of Finance, and that's important. Our Minister of Finance has also announced that this will be done accordingly. Now on a subject that you have also mentioned: e-commerce. Let me give you some information and tell you what it is all about and why it is so important. The issue of e-commerce has become a site-related factor and nothing we can leave to individual companies and so we can leave our SMEs alone. I would also like to tell you why: Look at the numbers from China! Its export figures in November and December rise by 21 percent – not compared to the previous month of August, but compared to last year. I'll tell you: These are not only steel and industrial products, they are also a lot of consumer products that Europe buys there on the major international platforms – this is a very, very important point. When we look at the second, how much money Austrians spend on online trade, we see that last year was 7 billion euros, and this year it will probably be 8 billion. Do you know how much of it goes to Austrian companies? - Just 1 percent. [[Abg. Smoking: Because you ruined the economy!]] Look away and nothing to do can't be done. Yes, the Covid crisis has caused us to act quickly, and only 25 percent of Austrian SMEs are in e-commerce today. What did we do? – We have set up an initiative with a platform that depicts two things: on the one hand, to pass on trade in its knowledge of e-commerce, and on the other hand, the often criticised consumer side. Yes, I know this criticism, we let it in, but it is an initiative to make companies and Austrian trade visible. Let me give you three figures: We've been online for eight days. The number of companies there has tripled in these eight days. The number of Austrian platforms that are there has increased by 60 percent. The number of companies that support our dealers in e-commerce has also tripled to 300 – they can be found there, clustered and easily found by our trade. One can discuss individual topics, but what one cannot discuss is that e-commerce is a location factor and that we have to do something in this area. I clearly quote Max Hansen, who says: I can't look away, and we have to do something together. – This is what we have done with our e-commerce initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24169	Mr Andreas Ottenschlager, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24198	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Maybe before I get to the investment premium: Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the SPÖ, because it has already happened in the debate today, I would like to read to you a quote from an article. “In addition to Christine Mayrhuber of the Economic Research Institute (Wifo), the good situation of the Austrians is due to the state support measures – including short work, but also this year’s pension increase and tax reform. The Wifo even expects the net income available to rise by two percent this year.” Ladies and gentlemen, why do I mention this? – Because the debate is constantly being held on whom we may leave behind. We're trying to leave no one behind, but we're trying to help everyone as well as we can, and that's the proof. [[showing the article]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Anger: Behaviourous applause!]] Now to the investment premium, even if, of course, the field of action is being extended in the debate of members of the opposition: I have the impression that this is actually a sensible measure. That's how it is, I think, seen by everyone – that's what you should say. The investment premium – which has already been mentioned – prefers projects, even for the reason that it is temporary. This brings a preferential effect: that projects that might have been undertaken only in one or two years will now be dealt with more quickly – and that is exactly what we wanted to achieve and what this temporary investment premium is for. It also makes it possible for business investment to be limited, and this is especially important now to support the economy and, accordingly, to maintain as many jobs as possible. It has also been mentioned that the higher investment premium of 14 percent is mainly intended for investments in forward-looking projects – ecologisation and digitalisation. The Federal Minister has already carried it out: We can see from the measures that they really work very well. The lever is there, which in about EUR 2.5 billion, which has so far been promised to invest in investment premiums, trigger over EUR 20 billion. I think that's a program that can be seen more than that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24245	The next speaker is Mr Maximilian Lercher. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24269	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I start with a fundamental point that I just want to hold – I've held it many times –: We are not at all against all your measures. On the contrary: All the political groups here in this House have signalled their approval of this measure, which we are discussing today. More: Mr Schellhorn and Mr Matznetter have even pointed out that we would have enabled you to take control of a greater volume, because we are deeply convinced that we will need it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schramböck.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do not always pretend to be against all that you are proposing! We are not, we are interested in honest cooperation, but this is prevented by you in most committees. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schellhorn.]] That is why, Mrs Minister, it is important that we discuss in general: Who is carrying the tax burden in this country? – 80 percent of the tax burden in this country is borne by the employed and small and medium-sized enterprises! We want – and I believe that is legitimate – that these 80 percent of the aid also receive something and that the state is now giving this 80 percent back. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to give an example of this because it has been so answered by the Minister for Finance in the Budget Committee meeting. I asked him if he had planned revenue-based measures, and he said: No, no, no, – And what came shortly after? – You have taken the revenue-based measures for pensioners with a pension-reduction scheme. This is not serious, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This does not strengthen the purchasing power in Austria. What about the caregivers who need it for a healthy economic system? What happened to the salesmen? What happened to the Postlers? Where's the promised Coronabonus? Why can't the people who work all day do a little break? Why haven't the wages been raised? Where does the solidarity of our politicians remain, and where is the purchasing power for the communities? We also want to call for this in the sense of good economic development for Austria, Mrs Minister! I think it is time for us to do the same, because when we talk about all these expenditures that are properly done, we must also ask ourselves: Who will pay for this crisis at the end of the day? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] If it's the ski lifts from Tyrol, is it Amazon, is it Mr. Banker? - I don't think so! It is the daily service providers, in the form of pension cuts, of cuts in the state budget, and we definitely do not want to do so. [[call at SPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we want to relieve the labour factor, that means that we have to tax the income of wealth. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, appreciated greens: We're on your side! [[Abg. Of the kilnauer:... SPÖ!]] Please continue to fight for wealth taxation, Werner Kogler has promised! We will measure you by your actions, for what is to be expected is that the ÖVP will not move in the sense of the real providers of this country. However, this would be the case for solid and honest financing of this crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24352	Mr Laurenz Pöttinger is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24376	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lercher, we are now hearing from Mr Ottenschlager that income is actually developing positively and you are sorry. [[Abg. Stefan: Actually, but...!]] Many people in this country tell me that they can't hear the noise anymore. [[Abg. Smoking: That's right, yes!]] I think we have done a lot with this investment premium, with the increase to 3 billion euros, and I also hope that everyone will vote – I am quite convinced of that. These are – today's figures – already 66 percent with 56,500 applications. The amount of grant requested is EUR 2.4 billion, and that really triggers this EUR 24 billion. This is so – you know that 90 percent of these amounts are of course paid by entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. What is very, very good is that investments with the 7 percent grant represent 49 percent of applications. Ecologisation, supported by 14 percent, accounts for 29 percent of applications, digitalization, also supported by 14 percent, 22 percent of applications. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This means that this funding volume will generate a total of 30 billion euros. That strengthens our location, that secures jobs, that secures our future. 64.5% of applications – and this is a significant sum; Mr. Lercher, you could be careful now! – are applications from micro-enterprises, 9.6 percent are from SMEs and 7.6 percent from large companies. And what's particularly amazing: Many will now believe, okay, the 7.6 percent of the large companies will have such a large volume that in turn the little ones don't have much of it. It's not like that! 57 percent of the funding volume benefits micro- and micro-enterprises. That's great! I think that's a great performance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now I would like to thank all those who volunteerly help to test the Austrian population and the people who live here all over Austria in these days. I think this is great and I also appeal to everyone: Please go test, that helps us, and don't believe those who produce conspiracy theories every day!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24438	Mr Leichtfried has spoken on an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24463	Mr President. Mr. Pöttinger quoted colleagues Ottenschlager as saying that what sometimes happens is that the income of the people in Austria is rising. I'm actually correcting: It's down by 6.8 percent – that's what Wifo found before the last lockdown. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24497	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Petra Oberrauner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24522	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators at home! I would like to take up the thoughts of Vice Chancellor Kogler, who said today: Where we take the money, no matter where the money goes, the only relevant question is where it goes. – That’s exactly what the questions are: Where's it going, and how much is going? Many SMEs and EPCs do not survive the crisis because they cannot cope. This is often not even a topic of funding, but a time problem: until the money arrives, liquidity and so on. Unfortunately, the banks do not wait, and even if the Minister of Finance has held conferences with each bank, there is still Basel III, which means that these rules are still being complied with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] There are also numerous companies, such as bakeries, carpentry and laundry, which are not affected by the lockdown, but are dependent on the tourism industry. That means they get because they have not closed, no replacement, but still cannot work because their clients, the companies in tourism, do not exist. By the way, the same applies to the taxi drivers you set up, they could drive. - Yes, with whom, if no one is allowed to go at the door? I think the workers who still have work now will not afford a taxi. I would like to talk about revenue. If you had regulated revenue replacement like an operational interruption insurance, or just as the Epidemie Act had regulated, namely as compensation for damage, then we would not have the problem with these inequalities. But now we promote luxury hotels and gambling, we promote furniture houses and home markets. The figures that have been researched by companies investigating this state that even at 50 percent of turnover, one still has a 30 percent increase in profits. [[Abg. Obernoster: Where did you read that?]] How is this going to work in a crisis? And: We don't have a return on investment. Due to the lack of reliability from 1.1. on, Germany waives this revenue replacement and returns to the fixed cost replacement. What does it need? – I would like to say: Finally, there is a need for a special levy and a tax on international online giants, which are unfairly competitive over the price and simply take away money from businesses – small and medium-sized enterprises – as well as businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What it still needs is a solidarity levy at a certain amount of anyone who from a certain level simply has more than anyone else in the crisis; and there is a need for a dividend ban. If you take public funds into your hands and then pour out dividends, it's simply not ethically portable, it's immoral. Given all the figures from the OECD, which show us where we are much worse everywhere compared to Germany, I would consider whether I need 200 million euros to make marketing for a product that is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24583	The next speaker was Mr Ottenschlager. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24605	I have to respond to my previous speaker very briefly, because she said that we are also promoting luxury hotels and others. - Yeah, that's right. I also ask you: Don't people work there? Do we not have to secure these jobs? And now I'm asking you something: The city of Vienna even goes one step further, which even participates in luxury restaurants – do we ask that? So I'd be In this regard, you are really asking: Don't make any difference here! It is really important to have all the jobs we can get through such measures. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would also like to address Mr Leichtfried's statements now, because he has made an actual correction here and has himself quoted a Wifo report from before the first lockdown, as he said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] My figures, which we have here, are from now on, from November, and I would like to point out once again that the current figures result because we have short work because we have a pension increase because we have made a tax reform, where we - you know - have lowered the entrance tax rate so that more purchasing power remains. [[Abg. Loacker:... promotion!]] You should say that, too!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24656	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - No, that's not the case. As agreed, I put to the vote on these agenda items at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Energy and I continue to finish the agenda. [[20:51:51]] 26. Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on Amendment 1123/A by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Johannes Juijendschlager, Mr Deutschlager, on a Federal Law amending the 2002 Waste Management Act (593 d.b.) 27. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (476, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Eko-stromgesetz 2012 and the KWK Act (594 d.b.) 28. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (471 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act 2010 (595 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24715	We now come to points 26 to 28 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. MMMag is speaking. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24745	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Now we are dealing with energy issues, i.e. issues of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy. Unfortunately, it is not about the Renewable Development Act – which the Federal Government has not brought together against many announcements in this calendar year – but about smaller areas, which are also very, very important, especially from the title of security of supply. It is about the so-called network reserve. What's that? – Essentially, we need to stabilise the power plant network, which delivers energy very fast and thus prevent the tension from going down and collapsing in the grid and we have a blackout. This issue, which is also very, very urgent, is a matter of concern. I don't want to talk so much about the content now, just so much ahead: This is certainly better than the old legal situation. It opens up more, even smaller suppliers the A chance to participate in this system; industry is also involved, there are shorter contracts et cetera. I am not quite sure whether the provisions on closure and closure pressure, especially for those power plants that do not come to the train when they are offered – but which must then be closed – have positive effects on security of supply. There is certainly a risk that in this tendering procedure too few people will report that we are closing too many power plants and then having capacity problems – but that is what we will look at. I am not concerned with the content, but rather with the procedure, the way in which you have dealt with the opposition on this issue in recent months. First of all, they started the whole process much too late from my point of view, the EAG too late, and then they also had appropriate discussions with the European Commission – since I do not want to assess how much this has to do with mixing the CHP funding regime with the network reserve here in the draft; one or other expert tells me that this is the case and also because of the problems with the European Commission, which has its own specifications. We have then also discussed briefly, and in the discussions that took place in the last week, it has been argued that not everything the Commission has, so to speak, or wants to have, is under the title of security of supply in the interests of Austrian energy policy, but that is the price of the European solution, which, of course, also limits national freedoms of action. You have to keep that in mind. That's a law for which it needs a two-thirds majority, and that's good. That means you need the opposition to this decision – as I said, the issue is very, very urgent. Your behavior in the last few weeks has not been such that I had the feeling that you were very interested in the opinion of the opposition – so from my point of view, we have not been involved in the process at all. We'll have 2 on the 2nd. In December in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, a warning was issued by saying, with us now the opposition, that is, the SPÖ and the NEOS, that we are no longer participating, we are voting against this bill, and see: In the last week, a lot of movement has come into the subject. We are not the ones who then refuse a discussion – quite the contrary, some video conferences have taken place and many improvements have also been made in the law in the short term. We will agree to the law – perhaps it is already recognized by my argumentation now – because the industry concerned is satisfied with the law. That was crucial to me, too. The industry concerned has strongly told us: Please pass the law quickly because it is system-relevant and very important for security of supply that we no longer have a delay here! So we do not jump over our own shadow, but we as the Freedom Party are also making our contribution to security of supply by accepting this law. I have only one request and a request to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and to the government parties. I don't want to threaten at all now or anything else, but I have a request and a request: If you continue to maintain this – this kind of communication, namely, the truth of non-communication – in the Renewable Extension Act, or if you continue to maintain it, it will not end well. It will not work with this large renewable development law if you drive it more or less one week before the planned decision-making process and say: Fresh or dead! - We won't play there! But I have already heard between the lines that, hopefully, you will change and improve this process – communication process and negotiation process – within the framework of the Renewable Development Act. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second point, smaller area: Eco electricity law, agenda item 27. This is actually only a matter of extending time limits, and this is the occasion for us to bring in a matter or a request that was always important to us in the context of an amendment that I am going to read. It is about the automatic exemption from the obligation to provide eco electricity transport costs for those who are GIS-free. We know that about 330 000 households are GIS-free. The GIS exemption is already in the law, so if you are GIS-free, you can apply for it. However, there should obviously not be a lot of work here, because we know the number of these 330 000 households – and these are the poorest of the poor – who should be granted an exemption in themselves, but only about 130 000 of them have made this request. This can be solved simply by saying that this is done automatically, and that is the subject of this amendment because we know that a third of the electricity price to be paid by households is already taxes and eco-electric taxes – in addition to about a third energy price and a third grid price. The aim of the Freedom Party is therefore, in fact, to relieve these 300,000 very poor households and not just 130 000 of them. That is why we are proposing the following amendment. It's a little complicated now. Why? – It is the same text, but once it concerns the eco-current rate and once the eco-current contribution. So the application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm seeking approval. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[21:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24913	The amendment is sufficiently supported, it is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Tanja Graf is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24941	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! I should also like to speak about the two government documents. For the first time, the Federal Act, which amends the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act, in short ElWOG. It really is about the most important law of today. It is about the Austrian network reserve, our blackout insurance for Austria. We want to ensure that our domestic power grid is not overshadowed by the transport of energy through our lines. The Austrian electricity grid is also part of the European electricity grid and its markets. Through the cross-border electricity transit, which is in itself necessary, is becoming increasingly common in the Austrian electricity grid. In order to avoid these bottlenecks, on the one hand, we need bottleneck management and on the other hand large reserves. It is therefore also necessary to lay down in this law the rules for the supply and supply of electricity. Firstly, we want to regulate how many reserves we need, second, as we do when power generation plants are shut down, thirdly, we create clear rules so that a power generation plant cannot simply get off the grid, and there can also be small installations for the first time in the application of grid reserves. Furthermore, we also comply with a European directive: making calls for tenders more transparent and competitive. This is a good legal situation compared to the current regulation. Our Blackout insurance for our network stability and security of supply is thus also completed. I can also thank all the energy speakers for the talks, and, Mr Kassinger, I also agree with you that we can and should speak about the way in which processes are handled. Here I am quite with you that we have opportunities to improve when we sit at a table together. Secondly, to the Federal Act, which amends the Ökostromgesetz 2012 and the KWK Act. The colleague has already mentioned this in detail. It is a question of extending the time limits for the start-up of installations. The Ecostrom Act proposes fixed deadlines, and the problem has arisen that in certain installations due to Corona it is not possible to comply with the deadlines because of the lack of components, and therefore we want to extend the deadlines. In concrete terms, we extend the time limit for the start-up of eco-electric power plants to be funded by means of feed-in tariffs or investment subsidies by 12 months, and for the CHP installations which are supported by investment aid, the period will be extended by six months. In addition, the regulation of support applications for photovoltaic systems, which is also very important and expires in 2020, will be extended by one year. I am also seeking your approval on behalf of the applicants who make a significant contribution to the future of renewable energy, so that they do not lose their contribution indebtedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e24989	The next speaker is Mr Alois Schroll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25013	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! To TOP 26: The Waste Management Act extends a deadline for a Covid-19 accompanying measure. This makes sense and will also find our approval. To TOP 27: Since the government has not yet agreed on the EAG, as the previous speaker has already mentioned, a new revision of the Eco electricity Act and the CHP Act is now under way. The purpose is to extend the period of entry into service in order to ensure that the aid does not expire. That too makes sense. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, if the eco electricity law is already amended, it would be necessary, from our point of view, to lay down the automatic exemption from environmental costs, as Mr Kassager has already mentioned, for low-income, GIS-free households legally. Some 200 000 people benefit from this. We propose a extension of the submission deadline for the promotion of CHP installations until 31.12.2020, so that the projects still planned would be eligible for this year. The amendment tabled by Mr Alois Schroll, ladies and gentlemen, on the report of the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on the Government template: The Federal Act, which amends the Ecostrom Act 2012 and the KWK Act, is already in place and I request approval. To the TOP 28, to the really big crumb, the net reserve: Some things have already been said by my energy spokespersons. I would like to say clearly here that the energy transition – Mrs Federal Minister, I believe that we are very, very agreed – can only succeed if the objective is pursued together, together by the entire National Council in a fair and well-informed discourse. The first stage goal, 100 percent electricity from renewable energy, will only be achieved if we take into account our three cornerstones – security of supply, durability and sustainability – and so on. We need an ecological power supply that you can rely on at the expense you can afford. We from the Social Democratic Party also stand for a socially just and fair system, but also for a functioning system. Of course, that's quite, very important. The network reserve, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring an adequate level of performance in the event of bottlenecks, is crucial for network stability and security of supply, for protecting against blackout. Whoever A says, to 100 percent electricity from renewable energy, must also say B to functioning electricity grids. I think that's very, very important. The opposition should be more closely involved in such important projects, already involved in the process of creation and taken seriously – that is very, very important to us – not only as Mr Kassager has already mentioned, if you stand on the wall with your back. The amendment has made some clarifications about the government proposal since last Wednesday. However, we regret the reduction of the maximum contract term to two years. This is not necessarily helpful for the planning safety of the power plants. We will agree to the request, not with exasperating enthusiasm, but because we do not want to drive security of supply to the wall and the e-branch also needs planning security. For the future, we expect to see more transparency on the part of the Ministry personally – please also with regard to the requirements of the EU Commission. You should know who the third partner is, with which you also have to negotiate. At the EAG there is now a further way ahead, Mrs. Federal Minister. I hope that all those involved have really learned from these recent debates over the last few days and take this with them for the great EAG that is ahead. Parliamentary majority voting cannot be discussed, but it requires a dialogue at a level. For good solutions we are to have, not for swinging. Please take this with you! We're ready to talk, our hands are stretched out, And we're going to send the net reserve on the trip today. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:09]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25192	The amendment has been properly tabled and explained in its main guidelines. Mr Lukas Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25219	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it's a little late: I also believe that this is one of the more important laws we decide today. Today, if we decide by a majority – but it looks good – is an important and a good day for security of supply in Austria. Today, we are adopting an EU-wide network reserve. Why is that important? – It has already been mentioned: Simply put, it's about our power grids not going out of the air. Network bottlenecks arise – you know that – when a lot of electricity is passed through Austria – we are, so to speak, a transit country for electricity – or if electricity production cannot cover consumption. As our networks are very heavily burdened, there needs to be bottleneck management, and with this network reserve we ensure that. We now require the leader of the control zone, that is, the APG, to have a transparent analysis of how much spare capacity will be available next year. On the basis of this analysis, the capacity must be tendered out in a transparent process and sufficient capacities then be countered. It is now new that industrial plants – and I think this is particularly important – can also participate in this network reserve. In other words, it is not only about providing additional power plant capacities in the short term, but also about reducing consumption in the short term. I would like to address the situation in which we were: The current network reserve scheme has never been notified to the EU Commission. As early as 2018, the EU Commission has in principle made it clear that this is an unauthorised aid. That means we really needed action. In terms of content, for example, there was no transparent tender and there was only a limited bidder circle. Since then, in other words since 2018, there have been discussions with the European Commission. These discussions continued even now, after the government template was presented. That's why we got a little stress and time scarcity, so to speak. There has been a need for change in order to ensure that this is truly EU-wide, because imagine this: If we now decide on a regulation that concludes the APG contracts for the network reserve and then the EU Commission tells us that the EU is illegal, then we must re-interpret these contracts! That would be a disaster. That is why I am very glad that we have now found a good solution in this narrow corset, which the European Commission tells us to do. I therefore make the following request, which, as far as I know, has been distributed to you: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to explain the amendment in the main guidelines: The main focus is the redesign of the auction design, which is now limited to the tendering of three different products – a two-year product, a one-year product and a seasonal product – and that is what I think is important, because this is also a cost question and also the question of who can participate – the cheapest combination of the received offers. There are also adjustments to the system analysis, in which transparency and additions can be taken into account as regards the costs incurred in the provision of the network reserve. I believe that this is a very good, cost-effective solution for the network reserve, which really guarantees that our electricity networks will continue to be stable in the future and that they will meet the challenges that the energy transition entails. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to conclude with a thank you: first of all, thanks to the staff of the Ministry of Climate Change, who have worked tirelessly over the last two years, but still increased and condensed in the last week, also on the weekend and on the holiday, to the fact that we now have a good and sustainable solution. My thanks also to our coalition partner, my colleague in the role as energy speaker Tanja Graf, the opposition to the constructive talks – including you, Alois Schroll, a warm thanks for the conversations. I believe that the debate between us has already made this draft much better and that the clarifications that have still existed have also done well with the draft law. - Thank you. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] [[21:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25674	The amendment is properly tabled, enough - - are those five? –, sufficiently supported – counted!; I don't rely on it anymore – and so I'm negotiating. [[Examining the number of signatures on the application]] [[Rejoicing]] Mrs Bundesminister Geessler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25711	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. In view of the advanced times, I have done my utmost today to complete only briefly what has not yet been said. At first, I would like to point out that this law is an essential building block for security of supply in the energy system in Austria and that it is good that we are now getting it moving. It is particularly good that we are now getting it moving, because we have produced some kind of displeasure with the solution that has been practised in Austria since 2018 at the European Commission, the guardian of the Treaties, as Austria's country. That was an unannounced solution. We have now – and therefore really a thank you for this joint act of strength, which we have put in place in the past week – cleared out all the Commission's reservations so far, answered all the questions well, found good solutions, which I hope will now also save us in the final impact infringement procedures. That is why I would like to thank you for your cooperation. Intensive cooperation in the last week especially, but also in the weeks ahead, so that we can bring this law on the journey today! Three points which I would like to highlight: We thus ensure more transparency, not only more transparency in the tender, but also transparency of the need for bottleneck management. We create improvements by extending the bidder circle by involving smaller plants by, for example, involving the industry with flexibility in production. This also creates for the first time the potential for the network reserve to become more renewable – this is an important step. In this way, we will create a scheme that will contribute to making it more cost-effective, more efficient and more renewable in future in the face of potentially critical bottlenecks. That is why I thank myself and hope for broad support for this important building block for the future of our energy system in Austria. The other two agenda items are mainly Covid-related time-limits which meet this exceptional situation in which we are located, both in the Renewable Energy System and in the Waste Management Act. I hope that we will also provide broad support there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25753	Thank you. Mr Stark is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25777	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too may refer to the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act. Behind this bulky title is simply the need to keep the essential basic infrastructure of our country, namely the electricity grids, virtuous, because electricity, as we know, moves, heats, cools, brings bit and byte and simply has an enormous significance in our society. It moves the economy, health systems, the digital world, the control systems of our country, society. Everything depends on the current. In Austria – ladies and gentlemen, you should know that – the time of the non-availability of electricity is on average 50 minutes a year. We are in a global ranking in place seven – worldwide! – that is, a top place, but of course it must also be kept. It is precisely in this notch that this legislative novel, which is intended to ensure the security of electricity and security of supply. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! With regard to this need, however, not only does the law count, for I can also stress that and in this context also appeal to you, Mrs Minister, and also to Social Democracy – it is not only about cheap electricity, but also about the electricity that comes to the households. This means that we will continue to expand our electricity grids over the next few years, when it comes to a lot of renewable energy, and will also provide the necessary resources for all grid operators, so that we can also rely on this very essential and sensitive basic infrastructure in Austria. Mrs. Minister, this is a great step. I think that we are making good progress to keep this place seven in the global ranking or even to improve us. In any case, I am pleased that this point is a consensual matter, and in this sense I am also pleased with the unanimous agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25820	Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25841	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Today we decide to make this temporary relief for the intermediate storage of waste within the framework of Covid-19. Why are we doing that? – There were bottlenecks this year, and there were also failures, for example, entire shift teams have failed. For example, this is about electric appliances, which can be stored for longer and which can only be broken down after that, and so it is a simple necessity to do that. A colleague has just asked me why I am talking to the AWG, so why I am actually talking about waste again. What's the matter with the trash? She asked. I've said I think this is an incredibly great, exciting matter, I think, garbage is something quite, quite wonderful, because the topic concerns us all and we're actually talking far too little about garbage. That's why I'm talking to trash again today. It is simple and complex at the same time. It is very, very complex and, on the other hand, incredibly easy. Most of the companies in Austria in this area are incredibly innovative – I looked at some – it is really future companies that have a vision, environmental companies, and they now need planning security. At the moment, some of them are further sorted, separated, and they don't know what to do right now, because they're hanging in the air: If the pledge comes, doesn't the pledge come, what are they supposed to do? At present, 25 000 tons are going from the system with the yellow bags abroad – to Germany, to Hungary, to the Czech Republic – and nobody is yelling. I thought there was actually no such thing as that, and I did a little research. What it needs now is a clear decision so that investment can be made. It is about investments of 150 million to 200 million euros. They invest it themselves, but at the same time it is the sum that we would have to pay every year for fines. This would now be a unique investment in high-tech sorting plants with metal separators. That's why I brought something with me, because I think today there are the technical possibilities – that used to be different –; we could separate everything together. [[a roll of yellow garbage, decorated with a turquoise gift band and small green Christmas tree balls, holding in height]] We need a uniform yellow system. Computer-controlled sensors already sort everything out independently, i.e. the various light packaging – PET, cans and so on – are sorted. This concept would be appropriate to increase the overall plastic rate, but also the metal dose ratio. It takes a clear decision here now. I believe that neither the Ministry of the Environment nor our House would like to be responsible for it if we do not make it as quickly as possible. That is why I once again plead for a uniform yellow system throughout Austria. I also think you can explain it to people. Time is ripe for that. Thank you for telling our President and the House team that a proposal has been taken up: We had several-way bottles today at the plenary session for the first time. Normally, I figured out, about 1,500 small bottles are thrown away at each plenary session. In Vienna they are not sorted, that is, they have really been thrown away. We now have multi-way bottles – ah, yeah? That's a great thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] A big applause for the fact that we now have a multi-way system! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The solution, as said: We can make simple collection apps. There's no one else against a credit rating system if you're standing next to the yellow ton with an app. There are solutions that would make everything possible. We now have to make a decision quickly to bring about a solution, and for me this is the yellow collection system with collection from all households, a yellow value system for all of Austria. That is how we create all the EU collection quotas at once. We need planning security for the companies. This creates jobs, and we reduce CO2. Of course, we need shorter procedures so that these three to four systems, which it needs, can be built quickly. That would be my turquoise green Christmas wish. Now I have been told that a minister can't be given yellow bags from Lower Austria, so I give them Luke Hammer. [[The speaker handed over Abg. Hammer the previously shown roll of yellow garbage bags.]] Lukas, you're doing a very, very great committee management, very targeted and sovereign. This corresponds to compliance rules because it is not worth so much, but it has an emotional value. That would be my turquoise-green Christmas wish for the Christkind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25932	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is the rapporteur asking for a final word? - That's not the case. [[21:25:05]] Vote on agenda items 24 to 28
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e25957	We shall now proceed to the votes moved. I may ask: Can we vote? – We can vote because of the agreement of the club members. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Draft federal law, which approves the federal law approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location, and the Federal Law on a COVID-19 Investment Premium for Companies, together with the title and receipt in 591 of the Supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This will be the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Draft law concerning the Federal Act amending the Law on Economic Loyalty, the Civil Engineering Act and the Accounting Act, including the title and receipt in 592 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is unanimous. Whoever agrees in third reading, I would ask for his consent. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Matznetter, colleagues and colleagues, on 'The maintenance of the independence of civil engineers'. Who is in favour of this, I would ask for a sign of approval of this motion for a resolution. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 26: Draft federal law amending the Waste Management Act, together with the title and receipt in 593 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. A third reading: How's the voice? – Also accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Draft Federal Act amending the Ecostrom Act and the KWK Act in 594 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Members Schroll, colleagues or an additional request from Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, and colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the said supplementary or amendment proposal contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. This one is given. Members Schroll, colleagues and others have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 2b and 2c into Article 1. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. The Members of Parliament have also tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 2b and 2c into Article 1. Whoever is in favour of the cashier proposal, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also the minority, therefore rejected. Mr Schroll, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few brief remarks on this point. 1 Z 4 and Art. 2 Z 3 and an additional request concerning the insertion of new points 1a and 2a into Article 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who give him the consent, for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes are given. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give them an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I should also like to say that the two-thirds majority that are necessary for the constitutional purpose are given. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees with this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – That too is unanimous. There is also the constitutionally necessary two-thirds majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 28: Draft Federal Act amending the Electricity Economic and Organisation Act in 471 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Graf, and others have tabled a supplementary or amendment. I shall, in turn, vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. As the draft law in turn, in the sense of § 82 para. 2 Z 1 of the Rules of Procedure requires a presence of the constitutional number of Members, because it concerns a two-thirds matter, I note this presence. Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of a new point 6a and amendment to paragraphs 6, 7, 10, 20 and 21. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Whoever is in favour of this, I can again ask for a sign of approval. – I can also expressly determine the two-thirds majority required by constitution. - Thank you. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever agrees with the draft at third reading, I would ask for a sign of approval. – Adopted unanimously. I expressly note the two-thirds majority in turn. [[21:31:32]] 29. Point Report of the Environment Committee on the 2020 Progress Report according to § 6 Climate Change Act, presented by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology (III-206/502 d.b.) 30. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (472 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Emissions Certificate Act 2011 (ECG-Novelle 2020) (505 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26205	We come to the items 29 and 30 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Rauch has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26232	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I start my speech today with the headline on the front page of the “Kurier” of tomorrow: “ÖVP blows back greens”, in the control in the apartments. This is the tomorrow headline of the “Kurier”. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] The same is true of you in the environmental field: They have received a very, very good budget from the ÖVP, although the government as a whole has failed to implement it. If there's a chance from the ÖVP to put someone on the black Peter, to represent him as a black Peter, then that's you. For a very specific reason, you are the Black Peter in this coalition: The negative stories sell her, and the positives sell her. [[towards Greens]] [[towards ÖVP]] That is exactly the crucial factor. Now I come to the 2020 progress report, with data from 2018, where you represent the sectors energy, industry, buildings, transport, agriculture as a CO2 probe. That's what you do. The representatives of the ÖVP look very deeply into their mobile phones and their documents in front of their seats, however, it is about massive, future burdens in this area for the population. They have just tried to create a throw in the area of the NoVA, where one goes here in order to load the “sinkers” – under quotation marks – correspondingly, the SUVs, to tear the asset in front of the curtain and to get more taxes on these cars in order to reduce the CO2 load. What's the result, Mrs. Federal Minister? – Quite simply, the ÖAMTC has sketched it in many broadcasts: In the final effect, families are burdened. Why? – For example, the normal Ford Galaxy or the VW Sharan currently has a NOVA load of EUR 3 344, 2024 a load of EUR 6 560. If this is family-friendly and socially compatible, I wonder what this government has done in recent months and years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another example, because of course it also concerns the economy and, above all, the economic enterprises: What did you do in this area? – Small trucks, let's take the Iveco, a small transporter. NoVA current: zero, 2024 for the same small transporter: 17 630 Euro. What does the Economic Party say about this? Is that all possible? Who's gonna pay for that? – The final consumer, the customer! I wonder, very slowly, what is really going on in your minds, how you want to explain and sell this to people, to citizens and, above all, to small and small businesses. You can't do this because at the end of the day, you'll permanently damage and destroy Austria's economic location. That seems to be your goal, and we are not in it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I very much hope that once again you will come to normality, but to normality away from the corona insanity and your economic burdens and anti-economic measures that you take. Go inside and try to take action with the people and not to burden them permanently and strain them in front of the carts!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26308	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26329	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is always a pleasure to discuss climate policy with you, Mr Rauch. We probably won't agree. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Smoking: But it's up to you!]] - Yes! I accept that climate change policy is quite squandered on you, it is very important to us. [[Abg. Smoking: That's not true!]] I believe that what we need in climate change policy is confidence and courage. This constant fear of what a disaster all of this will bring us, I believe, no further. [[Abg. Smoking: Environmental protection is home protection!]] As Mr Rauch has already mentioned, the climate report is sufficient with the data by the end of 2018, and we must take this into account in this debate. He's not exactly up-to-date, but in the final effect it's clear what it's all about. We are about at the level of 1990 in CO2 emissions – we should have reduced. We were once over, the top was in 2005, now we are about back at the level of 1990. We know that in 2019 we were also above our own goals. This year it will be very likely that we will have quite a reduction in emissions. There are up-to-date estimates that CO2 emissions in the European Union are falling by about 11 percent this year. However, we will certainly not make the mistake of taking out these statistical exploiters, mis-evaluation and false conclusions. We know exactly if we want to reduce emissions in the long term, we need to make much more effort in climate protection. We also know what is the biggest child of concern, as the climate change report clearly shows: Since 1990, emissions in the transport sector have increased by 73.3 per cent, i.e. almost three quarters, instead of falling. I would like to clear up a myth in this context, because it has now repeatedly occurred in the debates, namely that the renewal of vehicle fleets – if you buy a new car – would be an important contribution to environmental and climate protection. That's wrong, that's just a myth. Why? – On the one hand, CO2 emissions from newly approved cars have increased on average since 2016. That is, cars that were bought last year have on average emitted more CO2 emissions than in 2016. This is simply because of the trend that cars are getting tougher and harder. The laws of thermodynamics are now as they are. The efficiency gains in the combustion engine are ending. The cars are getting harder, and that means they consume more fuel. That's what we see on the data. Even if it were not so, even if cars were ever more economical, we know: About a third of the ecological backpack and about a quarter of CO2 emissions from cars are generated in production. That means I have to be on the road for a very long time, about 15 to 20 years, until a sprit-saving car calculates itself ecologically. [[Abg. Deimek:... Batteries?]] That is why the increase in the NOVA that we have decided today is a good thing. So it is in principle a nova, which is designed so that more fuel-eating cars that produce more CO2 emissions are gradually becoming more expensive. [[Abg. Smoking: They burden the families!]] For this, there is a massive promotion of e-mobility next year, which is important because there are still people who simply depend on the car. Our goal, however, is above all that people should be provided with sustainable mobility, which is climate-friendly: We expand the track, we make driving by train cheaper, we build cycle paths – all this should contribute to making mobility more manageable. But it is certainly not a contribution to climate protection to simply buy new cars, and therefore we will certainly not promote that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26425	Mr President, next item is the report (Doc. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26446	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Almost exactly five years ago, the Paris climate agreement was adopted, which was a huge success at the time. What was it about? – One has agreed to restrict the heating of our planet to 1.5 degrees, to a maximum of 2 degrees, in a joint effort, one must say, because we cannot stop climate warming at present. This Paris climate agreement entered into force in November 2016, also for Austria. Let's see what's happened since then: We missed our CO2 reduction targets in 2017, we missed our CO2 reduction targets in 2018, we most likely missed our CO2 reduction targets in 2019 – and the only reason why we will not miss them for 2020 is Corona! This is Austria's balance sheet since we signed the Paris climate agreement, and this is a balance sheet that shows, in particular, the previous failure of Austria to make its contribution to actually comply with this 1.5-degree objective. That's the sad reality, we have to say that. But the question is: How's it going now? Where are we now? – While we are negotiating here, negotiations are also under way at EU level. It is precisely there that we are setting how many CO2 emissions we need to reduce in order to be able to meet this 1.5-degree objective at all. While the representatives of the Austrian Federal Government always attach themselves to the flags that they would be the climate pioneers – whether it is announced in a press conference or written in the form of large headlines in the government programme – you can see that this is not true: On the other hand, the EU Parliament has pursued a courageous decision and decided to reduce emissions by 60 percent by 2030. Countries like Finland have joined and supported this – Finland is a pioneer in this field! Countries like Sweden or Denmark, which still go further, which demand a reduction of 65 percent and also have a plan as they plan to implement it – these are climate pioneers, not the Austrian government that wants to remain in the status quo! Of course, 55 percent are also an improvement, I honestly note. This is an improvement compared to the status quo, but then we are not the pioneers and pioneers, and then you should not attach this to the flags if you can't deliver it. Above all, this should not be done – and that is now the most serious point – if companies like Ikea are more courageous than the Austrian Federal Government, if Austrian companies such as savings are more courageous than the Austrian Federal Government. These have written an open letter and asked us, politics, to be a lot more courageous – private companies that now call on politics to do so! This should no longer be the case in 2020 if we look at the previous balance sheet in this area. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bernhard.]] I come to the conclusion: What we need is a long-term plan. We should not also try to weaken even the 55 percent target, which is also what the Austrian Federal Government is doing. I have negotiating documents that show that one has tried, for example, in the field of agriculture – surprise, surprise! – weaken a few points again. We don't need that! We need a plan on how we can finally achieve our climate objectives seriously! By the way, we do not have any CO2 reduction targets for 2021. I think we are the only country in the EU that does not know how many CO2 emissions it wants to save next year. It's still a few days, maybe something else is happening – but I don't think so. We also need a transformation fund to ensure that this transition is fair and fair in order to support the Austrian industry in order to save well-paid jobs and to ensure that we are environmentally and socially fair in this transition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26506	It is now up to the honourable Member to report on the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26528	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The progress report focuses mainly on the drivers of CO2 emissions, which are relatively fast: In addition to the production-driven industry, it is mainly the areas of mobility, housing – especially the heat energy, which we currently enjoy very much, outside it is cold, inside warm, this is not physically by itself, but must be provided somehow – and nutrition, that is, the energy we need for the preservation of life. Ladies and gentlemen, in all these cases we have seen increases in recent years, and these are not just due to the fact that we are missing something, That we do not do anything that we or the past governments were unwilling. The increase is mainly due to the fact that there is a population growth in Austria, which we should not underestimate. The year 2020 also shows us very much how economic growth and economic depression ultimately affect the CO2 question. We recognize that we can only move forward if we consistently continue to replace fossil energy sources with renewables. We are already a step further in 2020, thanks to the technology, automation and digitalization, and we can use these renewable energy sources much, much more efficiently, whether it is wind power, photovoltaics or other areas. That is the essential step: to look at what we have possibilities. With the Renewable Extension Act, for example, it is precisely in this direction that we can meet our entire energy needs differently. There is the addition of E10 to petrol and diesel, because of course we need a phasing out of the fossils, but we can't turn around immediately. In the automotive industry it is known that in ten, 15 years it will only be more about electric mobility – but we have to get there piece by piece. We see that there are CO2 reduction targets within the European Union – but we also need to know what measures we are taking to achieve the Paris objective. Of course, setting targets is very noble, but measures must also be put in place. However, we must achieve the objectives without nuclear power, even if there are two political groups here in the House, which have not yet spoken out against it, and have found positive words on nuclear power at the top – also active – representatives of these parties. I think that is important, that is what we must address as Austrians, because many countries that have previously been called climate pioneers are because they rely on nuclear power, and that is not a form of future energy. That's where we have to think. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of Parliament for dual farmers and loackers.]] This rethinking takes place not only in states but also in large corporations. If you take as an example the company Shell: Shell has an annual turnover of 308 billion euros – that is huge – driven by fossil raw materials gas and oil, and just Shell wants to become greener. But what does this radical conversion mean? – This means that they are currently at a stock exchange value that has been halved more than half because they are not yet able to implement these steps accordingly. Half of the locations worldwide are closed and every tenth job is lost. But the path is the right one, only we must ask ourselves the social question, also with regard to employment in this country: How can we shape this transformation towards climate-friendlyness, including the economic world, in such a way that we can take people along accordingly, maintain the economy and thus ensure jobs in this difficult time? – I believe that the opportunity for climate change lies in dealing with and in the alternatives, because we have a lot of know-how, a lot of competence. Mrs. Federal Minister, I think that as a government we do not separate somewhere, no matter who postulates it, but go very strongly with each other. That is exactly the strength of this federal government that we take climate change seriously and have economic competence on board. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26600	Mr President, on a point of order, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26624	I am actually correcting – in fact, I would have to make two actual corrections, Mr. Jewellery, jewelry beaters have made several false claims – hits. [[Call to the ÖVP]] First of all, you have put an accusation in the room, which is not true: They claimed that high-ranking representatives of a party spoke out for nuclear power. [[Deputies Hörl and Strasser: Kreisky!]] I do not know a representative or a representative of the SPÖ who has or has ever spoken in recent weeks or in recent years. The person to whom you refer here has no function, no mandate and no possibility of officially representing the SPÖ outside. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] It is a person who has long been excluded from politics – false claim number one. The second false claim would have been that we had not yet made this clear. Firstly, there is no need to clarify this because we have been with each single anti-atomic proposal here in this House for years, and secondly, there is already a clarification. [[Call the ÖVP: Let's see!]] Maybe watch. She's on social media, too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26710	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26731	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Herr has already made the actual correction; perhaps we can say: Whoever says the untruth in the National Council simply shows that he may have fallen home later on of the uncreative idioty – but you don't have to assign that to anyone. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As far as climate policy is concerned, it is indeed true that – and I would like to draw attention to something that is probably not so pleasant to the Greens – we are only discussing this report today because we have saved it in plenary at the request of NEOS. The other political groups, including the ÖVP and the Greens, wanted to complete this climate change report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and then we would not even have had the opportunity to discuss the outcome. The report clearly shows – and that has already been said by my previous speakers – that we are in the reduction of CO2 emissions very far away from our targets – in addition to the self-contained ones, in addition to those of the political communications of recent years, and also in addition to those that we will find ourselves in the future. I do not want to talk so much about emissions and reduction now, but about what lies behind it: He clearly shows what we need to achieve in the future, namely that we have not managed to decouple economic performance from emissions. This means that whenever we discuss reduction in this House, we also talk about how we fail to do things any more, how we do things differently. I think the debate is very short. We need to look much more closely at the fact that we are rethinking what we can do differently as a state in the classification to set the right incentives. To this end, I would also like to give examples: What you haven't delivered, Mrs. Minister, are the big throws. I know you'll say in your speech then that big throws are ahead, but a real ecologisation of the tax system is not, for example, the increase of the NOVA. What the Greens have just done with the support of the ÖVP was that you have increased taxes and taxes – greening, however, means that I raise one and reduce the other. If I have a vision, then it is that the labour income and income of employees are taxed significantly less than in the present that companies are taxed much less than in the present, for example, services companies or tourist companies, restaurants that shop regionally, and also production companies that use exemplary technologies pay much less taxes than today, because they are then taxed after resource consumption, because they can create a completely different world. I don't hear anything about these visions that I had entrusted to the Greens despite many ideological differences. I hear a lot of Pragmatism: We make the one screw small, we make the Fiat 500 a bit more expensive, we see that the small trucks cost a little more, we will take great steps in the future. – But the big throw is still missing! I would like to address another point which I also address in almost every speech about climate policy: No matter what you will say as Minister of Climate Change after that, as long as you have not abolished the environmental and climate-damaging subsidies, what you say here in the National Council is not credible enough. I know there are things in national competence, but there are many in federal competence, and I hear clearly too little. The same is true of the privileges of looking at them: In the case of service weights, in the taxation of diesel there are quite, very large screws that you could turn – these are always in the field of taxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] It is not about bakeing little bread, but it is about – and that was also the idea of Paris – making big rolls, changing society, changing the economy and shaping the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] And that's where I hear the Tyrolean cable car operator. There is certainly also an ecological future for the cable cars, but the ÖVP should take great steps with the greens and not always brake and block. – You are boring, lustless and really from yesterday! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call at the ÖVP:Try it once in Vienna!]] Now I come back to the point: The climate progress report says that we are not making progress. The only progress that Austria is making in climate policy is when there is a global pandemic. The world economy must first collapse or be close to collapse in order for Austria to make progress in climate policy, and that is pathetic. I'm expecting, and that's also an appeal: Come with big steps! As NEOS, we support a vision in which the future looks different from the one currently planned by the ÖVP. – Thank you very much and nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26789	Mrs Bundesminister Geessler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26815	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Later on the climate report, and a few comments from the discussion: The climate report – yes, the data situation is from 2018, we are working to ensure that we can make it available to you faster – shows a situation that shows lower CO2 emissions than in 2017, but we are still 1.6 million tonnes above target in 2018. We now have figures from Nowcast 2019, as we see a slight increase compared to 2018 again, and we have a year with 2020 when emissions are falling, and in total this will provide us with a point landing for the 2020 climate change target – probably, perhaps, perhaps – over the period by 2020. Are we satisfied for that? - Of course not. Replace Crisis Climate Policy? - Of course not. However, one can use the acidity of a crisis to get out of this crisis with climate change policy, and that is what we are doing now. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We are on a climate-political catch-up with a big throw, namely the climate-protection billions. We will only create and secure up to 64 000 jobs in the areas of renovation, thermal renovation, over the next few years – yes, of course, also with a reorganisation in the tax system, this is a central lever that we will, of course, benefit from with a next step you have taken today, and with further steps that will come. I would like to join Mr Schmuckenschlager, but I would like to take one step further: This climate change catch-up we have on our way to climate neutrality in 2040 is not just a chance. I am convinced that it is the only opportunity for Europe in particular. Making our economy climate-neutral, making our economy future-fit, that is our chance in the world market, that is our chance between Asia, Africa, America. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But the chances are this way: They are taken if they offer themselves – and the house mind tells me one thing: Whoever comes too late punishes life. That is why we now have to act, now we have to make climate policy. That is why we are taking all the steps, from the largest climate protection budget ever seen by Austria, to the expansion of public transport in a dimension that Austria has never seen before, with all the initiatives we are taking, from energy policy initiatives to efficiency to the new Climate Change Act, which is now in progress with a technical draft. One thing has been added: Of course, we also have targets. We now have a Climate Change Act by 2020. We now have binding EU-wide targets with minus 36 per cent in the non-ETS sector, i.e. in the non-industrial sector, which is binding on Austria, to which we have committed ourselves and which, of course, we are following with the decision, which hopefully falls in these minutes or hours, perhaps even tomorrow – it is still exciting in the European Council until the last minute – by adapting the European objectives to the need for climate neutrality 2050 at EU level, by adapting to the needs of the Paris climate agreement. That also means improving with our government programme means being ambitious, but above all, it means taking climate policy seriously in every concrete action. This is what we are doing, from the investment premium to the economic programmes, and in this way we will all continue together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26885	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26906	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There is also another agenda item, the TOP 30. This is about the EZG-Novelle 2020. At the autumn summit 2014 of EU Heads of State or Government, climate and energy policy targets for the EU were already defined in 2030, including a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 percent compared to 1990. By mid-2015 the European Commission presented a legislative proposal for the amendment of the Emissions Trading Directive, which was primarily in line with the methodical continuation of the existing trading system by 2030. In terms of content, the revision has been closely in line with the framework conditions agreed at the autumn 2014 summit, such as the design of the reduction path, the determination of the total quantity and the protection against deportation. The EU legal act is then at 8. On April 8, 2018, a national implementation would have entered into force until 8. ==References====External links== The novelle has also been introduced in this time frame, and then it was in review in about a year. I referred to it at the Environment Committee in May. You told me in about two or three weeks you're going to put this novel. ==References== It took us November until we got the novelle presented. It is now here, and it does not actually say much, because it is simply the implementation of the EU legal framework. For me, what is not contained in this novel is far more exciting, and that is probably the reason for the long delay, namely the question of dedication. It is not included in this novel. The government programme states: ‘Assessing the intended use of auction proceeds from the trade in certificates [...] as additional resources for climate protection and climate-right innovation’, and your Council of Ministers’ proposal includes the decision to establish, on the one hand, the legal basis for an instrument in the first half of 2021 to support important companies in adapting the CO2 targets – that is to become effective in 2022 – and, on the other hand, to take measures for low-income households, in particular in the case of heat generation and renovation. That is to say, the government has apparently been unable to agree on a model for ten months in the use of funds. I have the request: Promise me that this will finally come in two, three weeks! As long as two or three weeks last, we now know. In other words, in the middle of next year there should finally be this use of resources, with which we really want to see a fair distribution between industry and households.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26952	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e26974	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present progress report documents the national emission values of greenhouse gases in 2018, the achievement of the Climate Protection Act and the additional, reinforced European Union requirements. In 2018, economics was a good year, ecologically – that is what you have to admit – the goals were not achieved. Depending on the level of achievement, over 0.6 million tonnes of CO2 were issued and 1.6 million tonnes of CO2 respectively. Nevertheless, in the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, the target values were lower, and even if there is an additional corona crisis, we will achieve quite precisely the overall balance sheet, which can already be seen in the report. The Corona crisis, which we are so often discussing, will concern us for 18 months, the climate crisis will definitely last for decades, and that is a much, much bigger challenge. The Austrian Federal Government – that is to say, because it is criticised here, especially by NEOS – is truly aware of this responsibility, and we, as a government group, are not making an old, vague policy, but we are very clearly involved in making Austria with this ambitious goal in the government programme climatefit. The European Union is also required. We need CO2 tariffs, quite simply also in the sense of competitiveness for Austria, for the Austrian companies. It's not all negative. In the building sector, for example, 38 percent reductions in CO2 emissions were recorded in 13 years. We've taken a short look at this. This corresponds approximately to the area of Burgenland to forest, which is bound to CO2 in the year there. So that's already a huge step that's succeeded. This has been achieved by the thermal renovation, which has succeeded because in the new building in this country low-energy houses, passive houses, zero-energy and plus-energy houses can be produced. These are houses that may already produce more energy than they consume. There is Austria's silent market leader. The people who have been dealing with this area for decades also have a praise. Austria is a European leader and at the same time has an export product that is accepted by many other nations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The whole is complemented by the transition from fossil heating energy, as Mr Schmijsschlager has already said, to renewable energy. The 5 000 Euro-Raus-au-The-Oil-Bonus is an example of this. Since yesterday, there are also 3 700 euros in Styria. This is all really a great incentive to launch a trend change. A second issuer is the waste sector. An appeal to the NEOS – Mr Bernhard is not here – is there! – as you are now in the government: [[Abg. Bernhard: Yes!]] Increase the recycling rate in Vienna! There are additional CO2 issuers with 110 percent increase in the area of waste burning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard]] If it is better recycled, we can also make a significant contribution to climate protection in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are the biggest challenges in the transport sector. There's a lot to do, too. I'm now fast quoting the German anthem twice. The first quote is: “You lie in the midst of the earth. ” – This has to do with the fact that Austria has a lot of traffic and also a lot of transit in the middle of the European continent, and of course the fuel exports also account for a lot of CO2 values, although the CO2 emissions do not take place in Austria. There's a lot going on. The Minister has already mentioned all the measures: Railway infrastructure, promotion of e-mobility, active mobility. But this too must work in such a way that it is possible for all, not only in urban areas, but also in rural areas. Many goals could be achieved, we will need new goals. Of course, this will take a lot of courage, and it will not succeed in advocating an end-time mood or apocalypse. Now, for the second time, I quote the German anthem – and this is perhaps also a driving force in how we can cope with the climate crisis: ‘Sooning in the new times [...], working and hopeful’.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27030	Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27052	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers at a later hour! I need to add a supplement point. It is also on the agenda the novels of the Emissions Certificate Act. This innovation focuses primarily on the administrative framework for the next period, i.e. 2021 to 2030, but – Mr. Keck has already highlighted it – the groundbreaking new instrument can be found in the Council of Ministers' presentation. I would also like to stress this once again, since it is actually the result of a long-term intensive debate in Austria and we as the Federal Government have now committed ourselves to creating two new instruments in the first half of 2021 – that is at the time of time. First of all, this is a new instrument that we want to support the decarbonisation of the industry, especially the energy-intensive industry, which is important for the Austrian site. What the Voest has already shown, namely that a new technology from Austria can be used to determine the world market, we now have to do this for a second time: to become the world market leader in this technology with emission-free steel production from Austria. We're gonna do that a second time now, but we need support for that. That is why we have already launched this in the Council of Ministers for a concrete Voest project, but that is why we need an instrument of support, which will enable us, above all, to raise funds from the European Union, to lift the European Union's innovation fund. We need an instrument that is designed in such a way that companies that think in investment cycles of ten, 15, 20 years and longer can use this instrument, especially in steel production, which is therefore designed in the long term and is also becoming more creative in support. So we also need to talk about how we – Tag Contracts for Difference, a discussion that we already have very intensively in Germany – can also provide support as long as the climate-friendly product is not yet the most competitive. There we move, but for this time we need a support. The second instrument, which we want to launch, is seamlessly linked to a part of the economic package that we have equipped with EUR 100 million. It is a support for low-income households in Austria, for which energy costs are a topic. This is also an instrument, particularly for low-income households, the investment measures taken in the renovation of buildings, in the boiler exchange, cannot vote on its own initiative – i.e. on a different level a similar problem. This also helps us to replace the consumption of fossil energies and, above all, to reduce operating costs, to reduce current costs and thereby also to relieve household income in mobility as well as in the heat as in building insulation. This is the second instrument we want to launch in the first half of 2021. I am convinced that this is the result of two important building blocks in this large project: Austria's climate-neutral until 204, Austria's future-fit and climate-friendly starting from 2021, can be set in motion. I wanted to underline it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27103	Members of the European Parliament have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am speaking today about the novel of the Emissions Certificate Act. It is overdue, it is necessary, but it also comes at a very unfortunate time. You mentioned it yourself: The Council is currently meeting in Brussels and there is also the UN Climate Change Conference in these days. The rumors you hear are positive. I fear we are talking about currently 200 million purchased certificates, and the rumors go towards 600 million when the targets are massively increased. At the voest you mentioned, we might be talking about a tenfold increase in the allowances. You're right, of course, it's a very big project, the hydrogen project at the Voest, which will take a decade. However, we are talking about the three-fold annual budget of the federal state of Tyrol, i.e. from 10 to 12 billion euros. I would like to congratulate you if we can get something on there. If you hear all of this, then the word "immigration protection" comes into your mind because we also have jobs to keep there. But now back to this novel: It regulates the allocation of emission certificates for the next period, regulates the right to free allocation of emission certificates, also makes separate arrangements for the inclusion of new market participants – very important – administrative adjustments are made; and what is very important to us: the commitment of the Austrian Federal Government to create an instrument to support energy-intensive industries, because this is urgently necessary and serves to protect jobs. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Last year, there was quite excitement in the coalition negotiations. In your circle, you also discuss how to implement the certificates on the traffic. When I – naturally – take the cable cars: There was enormous excitement, because Ischgl bought certificates for 150 000 euros, a relatively small sum. There you have set 40 hectares of cymbals, 100 percent of green electricity in the cable cars, global heat and photovoltaic systems, and then you have bought certificates for 150 000 euros and the ski area has been presented as climate neutral. During the coalition negotiations there was a huge excitement at the clubman of the Tyrolean Greens. That's what I'm wondering, of course: Does that also apply to ski resorts? Is that indecent or not? – I do believe that this is also acceptable. I say to you, Mr Bernhard: Don't worry about tourism! There is a study by the Federal Environment Agency, which clearly and clearly points out that: is that the holidays hiking and ski holidays – even more – have the lowest ecological footprint. We speak of 21 percent of a flight to Spain: 21 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions of a flight to Spain is a week's holiday in Austria; if you come by train, even 7 percent. So don't worry about it! In addition, I also have a very great statistics Six days of skiing causes an equally large footprint as half an hour of jet skiing on the sea. [[a bar chart showing]] I think you can continue to work there. We are negotiating with the ÖBB – with Riljet to the snow, with Nightjet to the snow – so we continue to work there and are proud that we really brought something together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] For me, ecology is undoubtedly economic in the long term. I am in favour of a gradual approach, step by step, and for attainable objectives in terms of location and jobs. This is very important for us, because our industry, our economy, is the engine of our prosperity. We must never forget: Austria causes 0.02 percent of the global climate problem, Germany 2.2, the European Union is 10 percent and pays 40 percent for the solution, so we should not forget the relations. I think a green deal will not be feasible without technical developments and innovations, therefore: If we don't put up the horse from behind, we first ensure innovation, for development, then we also do easier in the climate goals. Mrs Bundesminister, you will not believe that the cable car industry can be a model for you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27212	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I put the vote on these agenda items to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on the Environment. [[22:17:37]] 31. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (406 e.g._Other Organiser Amendments to the 1998 Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution on Persistent Organic Pollutants (503 D.B.) 32. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (467 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Chemicals Act 1996, the Federal Criminal Law, the Fluorated GHG Act 2009 and the Biocidal Product Law (504 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27255	We come to points 31 and 32 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. I call on the rapporteur, Mrs Rössler, to present a pressurised correction to point 31. - Please. [[Abg. Rössler: Mr President, do I have to go up there?]] – Usually above, but you can speak from the speaker's desk today.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27287	‘I present the following pressurised correction to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in 503 of the supplements: 1. In the narration part of the current committee report, the word ‘union law’ shall be replaced by the word ‘non-union law’ respectively.’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] ‘2.: Point 2 of the Committee's proposal reads as follows: 2. The non-union part of the amendments to this State Treaty is in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 50 2 Z 4 B-VG by passing laws.’
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27317	Thank you for the execution. There has been no oral reporting on point 32. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27344	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Minister, you've been strapping the house's mind. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: Now comes a praise!]] – Now comes a praise, just as it is. The house mind is of course very, very crucial for politics, for people and also for advertising accordingly. But what would the house mind do? So the question is always: What's the house mind doing? – The house mind would move transit traffic from the road to the rail. What else would the house mind do? – To use the transport billions, he would do that. What else would the house mind do? – To advance the expansion of renewable energy, he would do so. What else would he do? – He would implement the 1-2-3 ticket. These are your announcements. Now, after this time of government – from the beginning it is more than half a year, a three-quarters total, that is, almost a year now that you already had – the house mind would put it into practice once. And it's missing. Why is there a lack of implementation? – Quite simply because you have a coalition partner who thinks quite differently. That is the crucial point. He thinks differently, acts differently. It is also noted by Mr Hörl's remarks. This is positive – I congratulate you on this great speech that you have given here – but that nevertheless does not fit with your attitudes, Mrs Minister. So there's a convergence. In all honours, you are very well equipped to budget. Now it's just about how you can use this budget at some point. That will be the difficulty of this story. We will, of course, measure you by how you implement this. The decisive thing is how socially acceptable this budget is. With the NoVA Novelle, with this NoVA law you have proven that you are not socially compatible at all. They burden the families, you burden the companies and you endanger the business location. This is the problem of this story, and you have to take note of it. They burden the people, the citizens much more, and that cannot be done in this way of thinking. You have talked about budget discharge – I would like to stress that this is a good approach. This would be really important, especially in this corona crisis, in all the measures that have been taken. People are, of course, unsure of what this government has done in recent months, and they are also uncertain about the future. It is therefore very, very important to relieve households accordingly and, above all, to give perspective to families and citizens. This is the decisive thing, and I have little confidence that you will take it seriously after this measure you have now set with the NOVA Novelle. I'm still going to another agenda item today, that's the Chemicals Act. We will, of course, agree to this law, because it is a good measure in this area. This concerns workers' protection and illegal trade in fluorinated greenhouse gases. We shall, of course, vote in favour of this. At other points, we unfortunately have little overlap points.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27381	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27402	I continue on the point where I ended reading the correction earlier, because from the amendment of Union law/non-union law one can already conclude that this is actually in an international context, and therefore it is not enough to regulate this issue only in a Union-law, so to speak, European-law, but rather, as far as possible, worldwide cooperation. These are far-reaching, cross-border, air-polluting pollutants, which are actually dangerous to health. This is already based on the 1979 Geneva Convention, and it is very specific about health protection, which is important in relation to highly toxic, highly toxic air pollutants. This Geneva Convention, with its eight follow-up protocols, is part of the subject we are deciding on today. Following this, there is still the Stockholm Protocol of 2001, in which at that time the twelve most toxic and harmful persistent organic pollutants were listed and banned. Why do you need such a thing? – What is hidden behind the abbreviation POP is in fact a very serious and important issue. It is highly harmful, long-lasting, long-lasting pollutants that are resistant to degradation processes and can therefore be detected in the environment for a very long time. They are very volatile and can be tolerated in gas and dust particles over long distances, that is, you can find them practically already on earth. They are not biodegradable, they are not water soluble and therefore pass through the tissue in animals and humans. They are proven in human and animal breast milk and harmful to human health. They are carcinogenic, they lead to immune defects, they accumulate in the body of animals and humans. Therefore, international agreements are urgently needed to eliminate precisely these harmful substances, eliminate and stop products and their use. There are products like DDT among them, which is certainly the most famous and many from earlier times a term. Today it is PCBs, these are polychlorinated biphenyls, which are still present in capacitors, hydraulic fluids, plasticizers of surfaces, seals and varnishes and are therefore still present. In the event of the demolition of buildings, where defects occur in such plants, there is the highest risk, at the highest risk. There are safety rules that allow the use of PCBs in inhabited areas, including schools and hospitals, to take all measures to prevent electrotechnical disturbances that may lead to fire. Installations shall be checked regularly for leaks. This is therefore a serious and important issue, so I would like to ask the Members of the Freedom Party once again to agree to this request, because it is a matter of urgency. to the very important health protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27442	Mr Ecker has been mentioned in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27463	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! Persistent organic pollutants are hard-to-degradable substances, which can easily penetrate the human body and cause severe diseases there, as my previous speaker has already said. As part of the Stockholm Convention, a list of the most dangerous POP substances was drawn up for the first time before the turn of the millennium and a ban on these substances was imposed in those countries which ratified this State Treaty. This agreement can certainly be considered one of the most important international milestones in climate protection. As new substances are constantly being added and newly discovered, it became necessary to adapt the list of dangerous substances. With today's decision, we ratify this current list in Austria. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, when this agreement was negotiated and the first POP list was drawn up, there were twelve substances on this list. These substances are still called the dirty dozen. It is interesting for me that the dirty dozens are largely plant protection products. This steep template is for me as a glowing fighter for a total ban on glycosate of course water on my mills. Once again, it becomes apparent how important it is to curb these dangerous substances, and above all, how important it would be to finally launch a total ban on glycosate in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even if we have already taken two decisions in the House for a ban, it will not be implemented. In addition, I had to tell the media that Minister of Agriculture, Köstinger, in the plane to Brussels, would like to forget her bond, which she had received from the Federal Council, and would not want to know any more about the opposition to pesticides. – Mrs Minister, it cannot be in your sense that a colleague of yours is lobbying for pesticides in Brussels! It's actually a scandal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That was not the parliamentary mission we gave it! No, on the contrary! I remember the round table to which you invited, which was very, very constructive and where we actually discussed something quite different. Finally, I would like to say that the Stockholm Convention clearly states that it is to be fully researched for alternative substances that are harmful to humans and organisms. I am therefore also surprised that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry voted against my request, which was aimed at researching alternative plant protection products. I'm very sorry. This is where ÖVP and Greens stand behind the chemical companies, Mrs. Minister, and my house mind tells me: This is not good for the environment and it is not good for the health of the people in our Republic. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27512	Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27539	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Rössler has referred to the POP Agreement, which is, as it were, only a term of initiation, but at the same time is proof of how progress in environmental policy has been made over the years and decades. These persistent organic pollutants are really very dangerous substances, as we have heard. They are also very dangerous for humans and animals because of their durability. The leaping point is that these substances are spread over long distances. They are probably produced in industrialized countries but are found in remote parts of the world, such as Antarctica, where such substances are not used at all. This shows once again that global action is necessary in this area, just as in climate protection, and this is also happening through this POP agreement. Of course, there are various substances involved. Sidestep to agriculture: The farmer depends on science, and science must say whether a means is usable or not. The farmer is not the chemist who analyzes this, but he has to be able to rely on a means to go through an authorisation procedure, as in the case of vaccination, as well as an authorisation procedure at the end of which one can say: Yes, you can use it – or not. Nobody stands behind the plant protection industry. The fact is that we are in a competition and we also use plant protection products to be competitive – both organic farmers and conventional agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] But that's not what I'm talking about, but it's about it being right: If substances are dangerous, they must be removed from the market. This is set out in this law. The second draft law has the content of changing several laws – the Chemicals Act, the Federal Criminal Law and so on – because it concerns the market surveillance of dangerous substances, which may be illegal in trade and which may also be dangerous to workers. Examples: Such substances were involved in the massive explosion in the port of Beirut, even in connection with the terrorist attack in Vienna, such explosive substances were illegally traded. The aim is to prevent such substances from being acted on and dangerous situations arise. If we are talking about hazardous pollutants and also about cross-border air pollution, of course we also need to talk about greenhouse gases and climate protection as a whole. I am concerned that we here in the House are discussing these things emotionally and objectively. The Minister and the Federal Government are striving to promote climate change and have higher targets in Brussels. That's good. But then you have to take ideological scrambles and approach this topic like this: How can we really get away from these fossil energy sources? If the honourable Member says that Finland and Sweden are models of climate protection, then I welcome this, because Finland and Sweden, like Austria, are operating a sustainable forestry industry for centuries, and we are using less forest than growing annually. You might be able to imagine a football field. In Austria, 4 700 football fields grow every year on forest! That's almost incredible, but that's fact. We grow in about 30 million solid meters of wood, and we use 26 million solid meters. That is, in Austria more and more forest is growing. Es Of course, it is important to protect biodiversity, to operate species protection, but also to maintain and use the forest. My urgent appeal to the High House is: Wind power yes, photovoltaic yes, geothermal yes, but don't forget the biomass! Do not forget it; whether it is extracted from residual substances, whether it is extracted from the waste management, or from substances of agriculture and forestry. How should we use weak wood, damaged wood differently from heat, electricity or other renewable energies? To implement the gas in the Renewable Extension Act would be a major concern – you know – but also to produce wood gas and wood diesel. The latter release less CO2 than fossil natural gas when it comes to combustion. Biofuels are also a topic. We discussed a lot about traffic. My conclusion: Of course, cycling and walking is good, even the abandonment of the car is good – we have propagated this for years, and electromobility is certainly a perspective – but many people will still drive the car, and therefore it is useful to make the fuels more ecological and also to mix biogenic fuels. The biofuels report says that we save around 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 by attaching biogenic fuels to fossil fuels. So we produce E10 or B10 and we use pollutants for it! It is not about sprinkling high-quality food, but we often have corn that is brushed, which cannot even be used as a feed, and this can be used for it, or old fats, old food oils. Austria is a technology leader. Let us take advantage of this, this is my appeal to all the parliamentary parties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27606	Member of Parliament Michael Bernhard has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27630	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! When we hear that there are hundreds of thousands of deaths from lung diseases in Europe, when we hear that there are economic losses of billions of euros, and when we hear this in 2020, we think of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is true, however, that we already accept much longer what causes these hundreds of thousands of dead people and this economic damage to billions each year: Air pollution. This has been much worse in the past, in previous decades, but it is really so that air quality in Europe is not yet good everywhere, and depending on the weather situation or other circumstances it is different. We cannot yet say that we have created a system – an economic system, a mobility system, an energy system – that keeps our population healthy. There are federal states in Austria that are more affected by air pollution – such as Tyrol or the Greater Graz region – and there are others who are less affected. International agreements are intended to reduce, reduce, restrict and prevent those persistent organic pollutants that are really toxic. They are concerned about how we can do away with various pollutants in the future and are extremely important because they take the world community. Of course, they are only the tip of the iceberg. When we talk about the question of air quality, we talk about classical environmental policy, industrial agriculture, industrial processes, tire abrasion – whether of an e-car or a car. one with combustion engine – we are talking about quite a lot of things that we need to improve step by step. We know that children in certain regions of Austria, in certain regions of Europe, today have an increased likelihood of developing lung disease because the air is worse there. From our point of view, the view of NEOS, this is not a state that is acceptable. We have to work every day to make things better in the future. If you do, Mrs. Minister, you have our full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27670	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27691	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Chemicals Act will, as already mentioned, implement, inter alia, Union law. Of course, our focus is on worker protection, especially improved equipment for chemical inspection and labour inspection. The close coordination between the Minister for Climate Change and the Minister for Labour is also very important. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change and environmental protection in general are not only the biggest global challenge of the future, but inseparably linked to the social issue. Of course, climate issues are also social issues. Climate protection will have to penetrate all areas of life, but always with regard to major economic changes and the pace of digitization. Climate protection must be a leader for all of us in order to achieve and maintain the necessary acceptance in society. There are opportunities such as green jobs, but also risks such as more of the same balance and balance, while climate policy taxation with an eco-social tax reform must remain the objective of our actions. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Global warming and climate disasters are moving ever closer and take a noticeable course on our planet. It would be negligent and irresponsible to all the living beings on this globe. It is no longer enough to think in alternatives, it must now also be done – in Austria, in Europe, all over the world. However, when we honestly reflect, we often stand in the way of ourselves. An economically established and global consumer society – from the philosophy of a disposable society – does not act or far too little sustainable and environmentally friendly. Over decades, prosperity has been propagated by the proliferation of goods, without regard to resources, a lot of human misery has been created in production in so-called developing countries. A new action in economic relations must also be accompanied by serious climate change protection. Untransparent, non-taxable corporate structures will probably not save the world, but will only make the shareholders happy. – Therefore: from discarding to repair, from the Group profit a few less to fair trade for the many! Five years of Paris' climate agreement: It was five years of age. For the next five years, we will decide whether we will finally get into the right climate change trail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27740	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27767	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Government's proposal to amend the Chemicals Act focuses primarily on more effective ways to combat illegal trade and other violations of the regulation of fluorinated greenhouse gases and on contributing to the Austrian and Union-wide reduction plans in order to be able to implement them. FCKW are mainly used in air conditioning, cooling equipment and so on. Although they are present in much smaller quantities, they are much more dangerous than other greenhouse gases, such as methane or CO2. If one compares 2018 figures concerning the illegal import of CFCs into Europe and calculates this to CO2, that corresponds to a value of 16 million tonnes of imported CO2 or, in other words, to the emissions of four coal-fired or 4 million cars. In Austria, for example, 5 million cars are allowed. For this reason alone, this law is a very important step in the right direction. A second aspect is the improvement in the circular economy so that these products and materials can be recycled in the future and thus can also produce clean products, say products in which these chemicals are no longer used. One of the main components of this package of legislation is to make access to explosive raw materials more difficult by the introduction of an authorisation system. These raw materials, such as hydrochloric acid or hydrogen peroxide, are suitable for the production of explosives by simple means. Unfortunately, they are used again and again by criminals and terrorists. In the future, there will be a documentation requirement for companies providing raw materials to other companies. Suspected transactions, exits and theft shall be registered in a national contact point established by the Federal Criminal Office. – This is an essential area. When we remember that criminal and terrorist activities have increased worldwide, this part of the law is an essential step towards greater security for our people. If we take climate protection seriously, then we must do everything we can to use the existing biomass resources in Austria in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27807	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[22:45:13]] Vote on agenda items 29 to 32
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27831	We shall now come to the vote on the reports tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before entering the voting process, I ask if it is possible. – Well, it's been signaled ready. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the 2020 progress report, submitted by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology, III-206 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Draft EZG-Novelle 2020, title and entry in 505 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I can ask him for a sign. – This is also the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 31: First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Amendments to the 1998 Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution on Persistent Organic Pollutants, in 406 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. I would also like to vote on the request made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as proposed by the Committee on Civil Liberties, according to which the non-union-law part of the amendments to this State Treaty as defined in the nature. Paragraph 50 2 Z 4 Federal Constitutional Act is to be fulfilled by passed laws. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Draft federal law amending the Chemicals Act, the Federal Criminal Act, the Fluorated GHG Act and the Biocidal Product Act, including the title and entry into 467 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. [[22:47:40]] 33. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 1031/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues on food waste (501 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27945	We come to item 33 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Petra Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e27975	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We deal with food waste at a later hour. Food waste is a major problem and a concern that I have also dealt with in my professional career. Over many years, I was employed in a social facility and began to cooperate with regional dealers about 20 years ago in order to collect food that is left out of use and to cook in the day center for the homeless, or to provide food to the residents of an emergency place. At this time we were pioneers and real idealists, largely the only ones who were concerned about what was a concern and who made this effort. In recent years many good systems have developed. The collection of food surpluses through social markets and tablets has established itself, and this also enables people who cannot afford to buy in a normal supermarket to provide themselves with the most necessary in these markets. This use is very important at many levels, because we are all responsible for being role models and to live that food is worth something even after the expiry date. It is important to raise awareness that each consumer can contribute to reducing food waste with its own purchasing behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to all these efforts to make the best possible use and consumption of existing food, the focus must also be on agriculture and production. It cannot be the solution to continue producing in such a way that one third of the food ends up in the trash. Even in all the social markets and tables in the world, this quantity cannot be used – many things have to be disposed of again by them, and that is not the goal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The delivery of surplus food is not the only solution. One has to realistically look at the entire value chain from the beginning to the end – only a whole action plan makes sense in this area. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! We want an active approach to food waste, we want concrete measures and steps, we want a concrete plan of action. In the original request of Mr Peter Wurm, these are clearly and clearly explained, and they find our full approval. Unfortunately, as government parties, you are also making a request again this time, which is mainly a statement of intent and does not take concrete steps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will not vote in favour of this proposal as SPÖ. There is already enough data and evaluations. What we need now is a concrete action plan and concrete action. You can surprise us positively with this – we are not convinced of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28041	Mrs Fischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28063	It is the question of whether we can still get attention at this time, but I think that already on the subject of food waste, because this concerns all of us, because we all want to do something together. [[Abg. Worm: You got mine!]] Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! When we start on the subject, we have to say that we can only do this together: together with trade, together with producers and also together with our farmers. I think it's right to look at certain areas. For example, we do not know exactly how much waste we actually produce in production. We do not know exactly how value added works for farmers. It is important that there is a data analysis. It is important that there is an action plan of charitative organisations, of manufacturers, of dealers, so that we can do something together against food waste. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to highlight a small but important action. [[Keeping two small bottles with the label ‘bio’ in height]] Some Members have, let us say so, talked to the President of the National Council, and together our canteen has been implemented that local products are to be obtained. That has a great advantage - - – everything good! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schellhorn and Mr Rössler.]] - We can only make it together. That's the power of small steps, because we don't convince everyone in one day – that's it. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] What it's all about: For example, if I buy in a village shop and the local farmer, the farmer, so the one who sells, it has produced in his place and I buy it, then I deal valuablely with it and it is little thrown away. I think that's what it's all about. If we go to a discounter and see the black bags at 7:00 p.m., we know it can't go out like this. We need to see food again as food and recognize that foods belong to the plate, are valuablely withdrawn – in the refrigerator, in the cellar – and not in the ton. We are now in the Christmas season: Please let us give, let's share, let's cook, but let's not throw so much away. We can all do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28121	Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28143	Mr President. Minister! High house! Perhaps once again what we are talking about today on this item on the agenda: It's about food waste. To make the figures tangible again: We speak of an estimated 1 million tons of waste food annually in Austria. These are in about 30 000 truck loads of food every year or just over 80 truck loads per day, food that will be thrown away, but which in principle still have a value and are therefore actually thrown away pointlessly. To explain again why we stand here today: We of the opposition have made a fixed request in the Consumer Protection Committee, and the government parties – that is already the accusation to the two colleagues from the ÖVP and the Greens – have written themselves an order to the government to do something similar, however, with a lot of hot air and without concrete measures. To explain this briefly: We have or I personally have written the first request in 2016, which was, in principle, made together with some NGOs. There was a red-black coalition back then. Minister Rupprechter has made the first attacks, and then is very, very much asleep. In order to address this problem of food waste, it is simply necessary to put in place concrete measures. Of course, the material is missing and, and, and, but everything you demand from the government now is a call to yourself. There should be more to move one step further. As I said, it's a huge problem field, and you also have to make it clear: The greatest waste is in principle the household, the private consumer, who causes about 50 percent – we always only talk of estimates – of waste. So about half of this waste takes place in the budget. That has many causes, you have to say it honestly. It has, of course, changed a lot, and today, for example, many do not know how to make a good meal out of rests, I say, of food. This would begin in schools that one also explains the value of food and cooking with it. As consumers, we have a lot of guilt on these issues too. 20 percent of the waste about occur in food production, then we still have 15 percent in agriculture, 10 percent in food trade and 10 percent in gastronomy. We have made some concrete proposals, or I have made some concrete proposals, and we must say again, Mr Weidinger, that you are required. We should really change the laws currently applicable to us in Austria as quickly as possible, so that this waste can at least be recovered for animal feed – this is not permitted for farmers in Austria. You already have a responsibility and access. It used to be the famous Sautrog, that's what it's called. That is to say, there are foods, high-quality foods that could be used in animal feed – in hendln, in pigs. The rules and laws you have made by the ÖVP prevent this, and that is really when you look at the quantities we are talking about, a crime to nature. You need to change this quickly – and not write a request to yourself, that you evaluate it and that you put together with all stakeholders, as it is so beautiful. It is necessary to take concrete action, in conjunction with, I say consciously, with the agriculture that is with you, and also with the Chamber of Commerce, there is a lot to be done. These things have to be driven forward. At the moment, for those who don't know, it's going to be like this: In the gastronomy, for example, you have to pay money as a gastronomy for the disposal of still valuable foods, so that they are then gassed in the biogas plant. So you can't actually use high-quality foods any more, in principle – that's almost a sluggish word in that case. There are simple measures to be taken by the ÖVP. The Greens should put a little more pressure on the women's ministers, who are otherwise very committed to climate protection. Mrs Minister, you know the studies – even there are estimates: If you calculate global food waste, this is the third largest CO2 issuer in China and the USA. So this is also a huge area in climate protection. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'm just talking about using food that makes sense, and that's where you really have to look and change laws. Please don't be angry, but we can't agree to your request because he's really hot air! However, I am happy to be ready – I believe, also all the other opposition parties – and this is my call for us to make a concrete programme of action with each other and then call on Mrs Ministers to implement it. That's how it's a lip confession. There are many, many useful things that have been done – the colleague from the SPÖ has said it – but you also need to know the relations: In the social markets, not even 1 percent of edible food is passed on. Not even 1%! That means that this is a drop on the hot stone, the rest is wasted pointlessly. We should do something together. In this case, a friendly call to the government parties: Please really work with us! Then we can actually improve something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28206	Next item is the report by Mr Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28230	Madam President. High house! Dear sisters, dear Seeher! I believe – and there was very clear evidence in the speeches of the previous speakers – that we are aware of the problem. We have a problem-conscious awareness that around 1.3 billion tons of food are wasted worldwide, unfortunately not fed to consumption, but man throws it out first and, in fact, gives a value that we have created from nature, not the dignity, namely not the dignity and the food itself, the care it would have deserved. That is why this is really a deeply understandable social policy issue and concerns. On the one hand, I am somewhat saddened by the rejection of this request by Mrs Wimmer as well as by Mr Worm, because it is an important common issue, but I have heard from both previous speakers that we are all aware that we can only create it together. For this reason, we have clearly formulated a proposal here that this action plan should be jointly designed and developed, namely with the economy, with agriculture, with the consumers, with consumers, because this issue can only be solved in a common sense. We have also discussed today that we attach particular importance to the United Nations' sustainability objectives. To this end we also confess ourselves fully. I would like to remind you that in Austria 2017, the Food Initiative was initiated and launched, which has voluntarily joined very, very many food and, above all, trading companies, social enterprises, in order to make a contribution to bringing food to a meaningful use. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] One very important point, ladies and gentlemen, is that food is also appreciated and a fair price along the entire value chain. The objections you have raised to agriculture, Mr Worm, will then be addressed in detail by my colleagues on the part of agriculture. It is necessary that we have a consistent common line and understanding from the farmer to the seller. I would like to remind you of one thing that happens again and again in everyday life: that very often the expiry date is spoken of, which is confused with the minimum durability date, that is, unfortunately, very, very much food simply throw away unattended, because one or the other opens the fridge, takes out a yogurt and then sees: Aha, okay, the yogurt has actually expired! This is very bad and an assignment to all of us that we are again creating awareness for consumers that you yourself trust in your own home mind. You just open up the yogurt, smell it and notice that yogurt is a lot of joy, enjoy it, you can still enjoy it, you don't throw it away. We have presented here a structured plan with the establishment of a national coordination body, with an improvement in the data base, because we are clearly committed to a scientific work. To this end, we also need to develop evidence-based figures, data and facts. We hope that we can all win you here in the House as a partner for this important initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28288	Next speaker: Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28312	Madam President. Minister! Dear Seers! Yes, that's the problem with the ÖVP: The problem is there, but you're not doing anything. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] As often as the government is caught in the inactivity, you reject a request from the opposition and then make an unspeakable request, a blend grenade. So you have more time to continue your inactivity. In Austria, up to one million tons of food are thrown away each year. The numbers are terrifying. This happens along the entire value chain, from the farmer to the consumer, much of it would be avoidable. However, it should be noted that weitems are most often thrown away by consumers. In Austria, bread and pastries, followed by fruits and vegetables, as well as dairy products are most frequently disposed of. With a share of more than half of the total weight of food waste, households are most sad. In Austria, 33 kilos of food waste is generated annually per person. This corresponds to, if it is converted, about 250 to 800 euros per household, which land in the garbage every year. There is an urgent need for action – yes, Mr colleague, it is necessary to take steps – and that is why we also propose: [[towards Abg. Weidinger]] We call for a national strategy and a “Austria-wide implementation plan with a view to halving food waste by 2030”. In order to avoid food waste in households, an extended list of foods that do not require a minimum durability date would be useful. This is where we would put on the biggest pieces and avoid waste. But in agriculture too, a lot could be changed and waste prevented. Thus, an accurate analysis of the market barriers to keeping fruit and vegetables away from the market by standards would be carried out. It may also be necessary to consider whether it is really necessary to import cheap food from abroad, especially in the main harvest season, when record harvests are announced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] An update of the Austrian action plan, including the preparation of a national strategy against food waste, taking into account the The entire value chain has long been overdue. So please help us avoid food waste! Mrs Minister, please address this to the Minister for Health and Consumer Protection: It is high time to act!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28382	Next speaker: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28404	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Many of us have seen the film “We Feed the World” by Erwin Wagenhofer. The film begins with the comment of an Austrian farmer on the death of small farmers, on the consequences of agricultural subsidies. Then we see how a grain field is mowed. We see how the raw material is transported and then large quantities of bread on the way to the collection warehouse for disposal. The bread, although edible, is heated in a power plant for heat production. Now, with my 28 years, I am not a child of a generation of war and, unlike many people in the millenniums of human history, but also with the 600,000 people in Austria, who are very likely to suffer hunger in their lives, have not yet been hungry in my life, but the scenes in this film have been burning on my hard disk. They're supposed to shake all of us up. My Upper Austrian countryman, the great musician Hubert von Goisern, sings: ‘But hoazen toan ma woazen and de rubn and the kukuruz when ma long so further hoazen burns there Huat’. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we heat bread, the hat burns! This is not a bread-reduced problem. Our trade chains, which have guaranteed us such exemplary food safety in critical phases in the crisis, throw good and usable food into the trash every day. This applies not only to the trade chains, but also – it has already been mentioned – to many private households in Austria. I am therefore grateful for the fact that the FPÖ – Mr Worm – has brought the subject to the House with its request and that the government groups have then decided in the committee to give this matter a go. I am convinced that in Austria we should actually strengthen our efforts in this regard – not only because I and we think NEOS waste and destruction of edible food per se is morally wrong, but also because we have seen in France that it is very possible to go a long way that people living in poverty are even more supported. All of this has to be thought-out, and it must also be accompanied by the relevant actors from the entire production and distribution chain, because it doesn't make sense to create a red tape sample from the ivory tower of a ministry, which then, at the end of the day, does not show any effect or perhaps even leads to liability problems. I am convinced that it is possible to reach a solution on this point across all party borders. I am convinced that it is good and right is if we support this together, and it is also good to start with an action plan and a process together with all stakeholders because something needs to be done. It is really embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, how many people in Austria actually suffer from food shortages and hunger, while we continue to throw food away. I wish the Federal Government and all of us good and good luck in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28465	The next speaker is Mrs Astrid Rössler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28486	No book has been presented today – perhaps a little bit later to relax: This is the new book “Do Not Throw Me Away – The Food Saving Book. ” [[Keeping that book in height]] It is called “The Food Saving Book” and contains more than 333 sustainable recipes and ideas against food waste. It has a seasonal calendar on the back cover, so you also know what you're looking for. It is a wonderful reading and also to give to Christmas, because it shows that you have to put on the topic in the household, of course. To all those who say that you have to put on at all corners of the entire food value chain: I share that 100 percent. The Action Plan is also aimed at trade at first sight. If one reads more precisely what was decided unanimously in the Consumer Protection Committee, one realizes that it is, in fact, a matter of course aimed at trade, but also at the producers, the processing and the charitable organizations that are currently doing valuable work. Mr Hanger – I don't see him now – we've talked about this before: We both work in tablets and know from practice what it means to collect and distribute the food or to process it, as Mr Wimmer has said. A lot of good things happened. I also share the view of Mr Eypeltauer that we should not simply create a new system from above, but we must also include the charitative organisations currently active. A few days ago, a first round table with the tables and social facilities took place in Austria to ask once the needs in this area. Information and awareness raising are very important components, especially when it comes to avoiding waste in the household, because there is indeed a great waste. I think the package is very good, and it is ambitious in that it is addressed to all those involved. Half the amount of food waste is the goal, and this is also one of the sustainability goals that we have already mentioned today. The Action Plan has a social dimension in supporting people affected by poverty, because discarding and destroying food is simply unacceptable. We as a society must not allow us, if there is still need, to destroy food. The action plan and the rescue and use of food also have a national economic dimension when it comes to cultivation, production, Processing and finally packaging after delivery should not be allowed to land in waste, because this is unacceptable too. There is also a very important ecological dimension – land use, resource consumption – and, last but not least, climate protection is a very important area. I wish that the topic here in the House is still very busy with us, including progress, and that perhaps some of it will be in favour of this book. I'm giving some of them to Christmas this year.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28545	Next, Mrs Alexandra Tanda is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28566	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This speech is an appeal at a later hour, so that everyone wakes up – an appeal to us, to you, to the listeners, if there should be any at this time, and an appeal to reason. We all know that food is valuable – we have heard it many times today – but do we personally act after that? Mr Wurm said that half of the waste is in private households. These are all of us, these are the people outside, those are the spectators. When I go to the supermarket at five to seven in the evening and see some hot bread in the shelves, which is certainly no longer sold, I find this worrying and negligent for the environment, also to the fellow human beings. How can we solve this problem now? – In order for something to change, it takes two pillars: a legal framework that we create together today – which unfortunately will not all go along with – and awareness-building and behavioural change among consumers. I guess that's possible. We have heard a lot of numbers, but I would like to mention other numbers: We produce food and CO2, and then we throw some of the food away – and produce CO2 again. On 28 percent of all agricultural land, food is produced that is disposed of unconsumed. In Austria alone – a smaller number now – 175 000 tons of food are in waste. This number, however, only comes from large kitchens and large businesses. If these numbers are too plastic, I would like to make this smaller and illustrate the example of the city of Innsbruck: In Innsbruck we, the Red Cross Innsbruck, have been running the team Austria Table for two and a half years with about 55 volunteers. 25 volunteers collect food from 15 to 20 participating dealers every Saturday with three transporters in four tours. In the last two and a half years, 230 tonnes of food have been supplied to those in need. 9 600 pickups took care of themselves and their families. A total of 30,750 people could be provided in this period. What's left? - Bread. Four to ten full banana cartons are delivered to the farmers every Monday. That is why I would like to ask the question again: Must a large selection of hot pastries be available in the shops at five to seven in the evening? - I don't think so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28611	The next item is Mr Clemens Stammler's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28636	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! We've heard a lot of numbers, and I'm going to mention other numbers: There are 521,000 tons of food that the households throw away. There are 175 000 tons that are thrown away in the gastronomy and in the hotel industry. Retail and wholesale discard 89 000 tonnes, in agriculture it is estimated at 167 000 tonnes. In total, the 952,000 tons – or how Mr Worm has rounded up: 1 million. Around 40 percent of the calories produced for consumption in Austria are in the ton. This is a waste that hardly exists outside the food sector. That's about like buying six pieces of winter tires, mounting four and simply throwing two away. That's 40 percent of ammonia produced for nothing. As we are on climate protection and are talking about climate protection: We discuss ammonia production in our committees, we risk a infringement procedure, we try hard to reduce the percentage, but 40 per cent we throw in the ton; we discuss nitraduction – 40 per cent of the nitrate we get into the ton; Pesticide reduction: 40 per cent we get in the ton; We get 40 percent of the transports in the ton. At the same time, we are discussing the deaths of farmers. We could pay 40 percent more for food without losing quality, it went out! I think we are actually taking the first step in the right direction today, towards dignity. We get the dignity back and, above all, we bring back the dignity of farmers. This is in the form of the products they produce, and of which we reach 40 percent. I think it's time to move forward. In a highly developed society, it may not be so difficult to bring a little bit of logistics into your own refrigerator. That's why an appeal from me, especially in the Christmas season, about the Christmas holidays: Buys less, buys better quality, buys organic quality and enjoys it until the last bite!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28673	Next speaker: Mr Josef Hechenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28694	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Especially valued, however, spectators! On and on, today is a good day, as we want to debate the issue of food waste widely in the House and find ways to reduce the waste or waste of food in the future. On the one hand, we already live in an interesting time: Food has never been as cheap as it is now, at the same time never so many foods have been discarded. In 1970 the average household expenditure was still 35 percent of the household income for food, and in 2019 it was less than 10 percent. On the other side Page is the awareness that foods are produced with high standards, unfortunately, in recent years God has been lost, and I think that also discount actions in the food markets, according to the motto: Number two, take three!, contribute to food being thrown away carelessly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is, we throw about 587 000 tons of food into the trash a year, that is, we throw money into the trash. That is why I am very pleased with this request, which is the initiative. It is the first step to raise awareness, but we must take further steps, and I would like to mention the work of our farmers particularly positively. They go to kindergartens, to the classes of schools to create them Awareness among future consumers and thus raise awareness that food needs to be more important. That's why: My sincere thanks to our farmers for this very valuable work! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, everyone can make a contribution. Let's buy as many food as we really need! It costs less, we save money and save the environment because less resources are wasted.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28749	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word? - That's not the case. Before we get to the vote, do I ask the clubmen whether we can vote right away? - Then I'll go like that. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 33. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report - it is the 501 report of the supplements - on the resolution 1031/A(E). Whoever agrees to take note of the matter, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on ‘Active action against food waste’, which is annexed to the Committee’s 501 report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[121/E]] [[23:26:10]] 34. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (470 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Railway Act 1957 and the Accident Investigation Act (547 d.b.) 35. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (477, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the cable car law 2003 (549 d.a.) 36. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 636/A(E) by Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Diplômé, Mr Diplômé, on the rapid implementation of ÖBB electrification in the 2020-2025 ÖBB Framework Plan (551 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28837	We reach agenda items 34 to 36. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Deputies Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28864	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mobility is freedom – freedom for people to move – and public mobility is freedom for all people because they have access to public mobility. Public mobility, however, is also environmental protection, is climate protection and makes people less stressful than individual transport. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the railway is the pillar of public transport in Austria, and it is therefore so important that we today co-design and adopt a railway law that allows for the strengthening of rail transport. If we manage to bring traffic from the road to the rail, it is a benefit for the whole society. Mrs Federal Minister, I am not going to congratulate the fact that the government structure has succeeded in coming to the state governments from all the regional teams. I think that's right, such an area in rail transport is important. I would like to thank everyone in the railway industry for transporting us in the Corona era. These are not only the people in the ÖBB, they are also those at the private railways as well as those who transport us in buses, in the mailbox. The cable cars don't have it easy at the moment. They have little perspective, and therefore it is good and right that we remove a barrier with the change in the cable car law. Now is the right time. I did not understand that the government parties do not support our request for the electrification of the railways. I think you can do more. You got it in the government program, we wanted to support it. Finally, to the next item on the agenda, to the motion for a resolution on the fact that disabled people have no disadvantage if they make the driver's licence and have time limits. I think this is important and I would be glad if we could work together to find a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28905	Mr Hermann Weratschnig is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e28926	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is railway country number one. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] 1 500 kilometers per person lays down the railway drivers in Austria, which means we are number one. We are clearly in front of France, Sweden and Denmark. Right around the size ratios vote: In Austria we have 1,749 kilometres of motorway and we have 5,640 kilometers of railway network. The way to today's novice of the Railway Act has a long train ride behind it – not always comfortable, but it was all on board; especially, I believe, very important: the social partners and also the Consumer Information Association. On the essential contents of the Railway Act – it has already been mentioned –: The areas of responsibility for interconnectors were transferred from the district authorities to the heads of state, resulting in a reduction of 100 authorities to ten authorities. Second point: There is a significant improvement in safety and technical status. I believe that this is a step further towards the development of a common European rail area, at a time when we are just before 2021, the year of the railways. A very important area is a mandatory service exemption for 72 hours of heavy-accident railway staff and also the obligation to provide psychological assistance to staff. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a milestone of the law, especially in the knowledge of the load that is a rail suicide for drivers. There are 2 500 to 2 800 railways across Europe, and there are 90 to 100 cases per year in Austria. Lokführers have to expect two rail-successors in one professional life. This is an incredible burden, a lifelong burden, and also those accidents that happen at railway crossings and other occurrences. Despite this burden, one must continue to work, so I believe that it is a very important area that we also decide on this 72 hours exemption. At this point, thanks also to the 42 000 ÖBB employees, to all employees of the Westbahn, to the employees of the regional railways and those of bus and train. I would also like to take the opportunity to make an amendment on the subject of the authorities – and I will go into it shortly afterwards – to: [[Quoted print version removed]] The application was distributed. In essence, the content of the amendment is as follows: The ECJ has confirmed under paragraph 796/19 of 12.11. that there may only be a single safety authority, which is therefore intended for drivers in terms of driving licence, and thus the competence of the SCHIG shifts directly to the BMK after a four-month legisvakance. – That is what the amendment proposal provides. I'm looking forward to broad approval. With this draft law, today's step in the Austrian Parliament, we are strengthening the modernisation of rail transport across Europe. Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[23:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29121	The amendment was distributed to all Members, also explained in the broad guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29149	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! One of my well-known drivers described the following situation to me: He has had night shifts on a freight train and has seen a person standing on the gels in the headlight of his locomotives. He immediately started an emergency brake, and he told me. I cried out: Shut up, jump away, but that didn't happen. He has lowered his head and is still opposed to the train. He only heard a damp hit and came to the stand a few meters later. Of course, he looked at what happened and found only more parts of the body of this person who committed suicide. He then had to wait many minutes until rescue forces arrived because, as he said, that was in the middle of the wilderness. That was many decades ago, and there was no psychological care. He says: I think about it many times now, and I find it even more often in sleep, how it stands on the gels, lowers the head and runs against me – i.e. the train. At that time it said: Only the hard ones are going through, and he has had to continue his service. After some time, he left the job as a locust and took on another job at the train. I think that the most important achievements of this law are for me the inclusion of a mandatory exemption of railway staff for 72 hours after major accidents – that has not yet been done – and – very important! – the obligation to offer and carry out psychological assistance to staff. The case of this driver has shown me that it is quite, very important that a human component is finally being carried and that these innocent locusts are said to come into this distress, because they can really be helped so that they can also process it for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29189	The next speaker was Mr Gerhard Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29210	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In my contribution, I refer to the changes to the Railways Act, which are designed to make it easier for trains to drive from one country to another. What is it like in reality? – Let’s say a producer in Munich wants to transport various workpieces to Verona, let them work there and then back in his own workshop. What will he realistically do? – No matter what we have here today on the subject of environmental protection and so on, he will load the whole thing on a truck, the truck will pass through the well 400 kilometers to Verona, the workpieces will be processed there, and, let's say, after a week the 400 kilometers will be returned. This is easy, everything regulated by law, very simple. How does the railway look? – Especially the area of Italy – but also Germany has not been without it – is complex. Complex is just a simple word against what really happened. After tough fights and pressures, we are so far today that a locomotive type – let's say a very flat-rate locomotive type: the Taurus or this Siemens-Maffei Lok – can drive from Hungary via Austria to Switzerland or to Germany, that it can now also drive in Italy, that it can drive in Slovakia, in the Czech Republic and that it can also drive in Croatia. But that was not just like the car that makes a place, but it was a highly complicated process. And if you know countries like Italy or France that protect their market on the most penable, you know, then it comes on red stripes, silver shields on the side or anything else where we don't get over it – not a month or two months, but for several years. That is why I am very glad that we are implementing this law with us today, but, Mrs Federal Minister, please see that at last the other EU countries are implementing these things too! It's not fun! I mean, the weakness of the EU has just been seen by the fact that it has failed to achieve this interoperability in its Member States over a long period of time, and that the whole thing has yet to cross with the ETCS. That was the joint project – but that was only part of it! That would be like saying today that the cursor is the uniforming part in the car in the various countries. But the sign is nothing at all! We start with the engine, the drive and the various safety devices – but the locomotive has not yet been talked about. - That's it. And what is the ‘ fun ’ of it? – Fun but under quotation marks. Switzerland, which is actually not an EU country, is most widespread with the global introduction of this ETCS. Mrs Bundesminister, please work to ensure that this is implemented as quickly as possible. Finally, a comment on the request that we have received at 8 p.m. today – and this is not about any kinkerlitz, so on behalf of the EU you move functions from SCHIG to the new railway authority. Mrs Bundesminister, no matter whether the request is good or bad, the best thing can be in there: That's not how you deal with the opposition! If we get an amendment at 8 p.m. and now it's about three-quarters twelve, we're not going there. You can get involved or anything else, that's unscrupulous, and that didn't deserve the Ministry of Transport or the BMK. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And something else: If it makes sense to electrify routes, for example, as is the case in Stäger's application, then you can think about whether you make it really comprehensive or selective, but then stick back somewhere and then at the same time have electrical plans in the drawer, which is at least as serious as sending an application at 8 p.m. Mrs. Federal Minister, come to the right work! Turn over signs on the highway is not a work, that is just a reflection of work. We needed many, many measures in the transport sector, especially in the rail sector. They're coming. Not to the actual work, you do papers from left to right and move places from A to B. That's not work. Please take care that Austrian trains can drive in other EU countries without any technical problems!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29280	Now Mrs Federal Minister Geessler has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29301	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Believers, if someone else watches us at such a later hour! I begin at the last point because what Mr Stöger from the SPÖ Group calls for with this request, namely the electrification of a whole series of routes, happens! These are the good news we have provided in the ÖBB Framework Plan, which we have also discussed in this House: Each of these routes is electrified. Why? - Because we do exactly that: With the ÖBB Framework Plan, we invest as much money as never before in the Bahn system in Austria, a total of EUR 8 billion in new projects, of which 3 billion in this framework period. So so much money, so much support for the train, from the infrastructure to the ticket to the issue of liberation from the own electricity charge for the rail current, as much as in the last ten months there has never been for the railway in Austria. [[Abg. Deimek: The ticket's on? But the transport associations say something else! I don't think the ticket's at all!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I may come to the cable car law or the railway law for a short time. The Novelle to the cable car law is an adaptation due to the current location: Covid. We would like to avoid that already granted concessions will be cancelled due to delay in the construction process or that limited operating time will result in public transport not being recommissioned in time. Around these two themes, this novelle is moving – a Covid novel that we are getting on the way here. A much more weighty novel is in fact available with the amendment of the Railway Act. I am very glad that we are hopefully getting this package of laws on the way today with broad support. We are therefore implementing, in a dry manner, the technical pillar of the so-called fourth railway package internally. This fundamentally changes the distribution of roles between European and national authorities in vehicle registration, vehicle approval and also in the issue of safety certificates. Of course, we are also using this implementation to bring things into the way that help us in Austria. On the one hand, Mr Stöger has already mentioned this, it is the transition of competence for the interconnectors from the district authorities to the head of state. This is not only an administrative simplification, but also a quality assurance measure, which was also desired by many district authorities. We reduce double-tracks in training, we create increased transparency, we also increase the monitoring powers of the railway authority. But also for me, one of the most central elements of this novel – why this novelle is so important and so correct – has also shown the example that honourable Member Keck has also brought to the Transport Committee – is the point of the exemption from duty of drivers after serious accidents and the provision of psychological care. This is a provision that makes a real difference in the lives of many people. That is why I would like to thank you very much for supporting this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29344	Next word reported: Mr Klaus Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29368	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We will accept the law as SPÖ; it is a law that is totally in order. For me, as a staff representative of the Austrian Federal Railways, this is very important, especially with regard to the drivers. I've already felt this in my own body, if you're dead when you're on a train, that's really not easy, and then you have to go on. This is certainly a very, very heavy burden. I think this is particularly important, as is the regulation on technical matters in Europe. Mrs. Federal Minister, I can congratulate you. I would like to make the proposal that you perhaps take over the Ministry of Finance because I see a great heart for the communities. If the ÖVP has made a request today that the communities will be helped, I would like to see such a solution as you now have at the Bundesbahnen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The opposition has been saying for three-quarters of a year now that the communities have to do something – and this is really addressed to the address of the ÖVP mayors – but nothing is happening, and now comes a two-liner, a few days before Christmas, where the communities have to make the budgets. I think that's a cutback. Are you really sleeping this or don't you want it? And then if Mr. Obernosterer tells me that the opposition is always a pity – yes, in such a thing as you are putting it into practice, what else should we do there but regret? That's no different. What do you really think about how to do this in the future? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So I would like this to be done just like you, Mrs. Minister. Unfortunately, the Greens don't have so many mayors – or for us Social Democrats Thank God – but I would like to: Take over the Ministry of Finance in the future, then it will work!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29417	Reported as follows: Mrs Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29439	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will allow myself to speak on the subject again, unlike Mr Köchl. It's about the novice of the Railway Act. This innovation implements the technical pillar of the fourth railway package internally. The Members have already said that this will shift the distribution of roles between the European Railway Agency, ERA, and the national authorities. The responsibilities of: Vehicle approvals and safety certificates are issued to the European Agency, so to speak, and the national safety authority needs to carry out more supervisory activities. This change of responsibilities has the great advantage, I believe, of a colleague from the FPÖ, that the approved vehicles have now been approved for Europe as a whole and do not have to be sought for their own approval for each country, which is a really important first step towards a European railway area, but only the first. Josef Urschitz recently wrote in a “Presse” article of December 4 that “rail and national government belong together like bad luck and sulphur.” – Unfortunately, one has to say, perhaps not so much about Austria now, but it has already been a bit right in relation to the EU. It is still true that there are many weaknesses in the large European context. There is no single European rail system. Numerous different signal, security and electricity systems make it impossible for a train to pass from Vienna to Stockholm, for example. Lok- and driver changes slow down and expensive the transport. There is no single communication language and bottlenecks in the trans-European networks. That is why, as I believe, it is clear to us all here, especially in the coalition: There must be a reorganisation in this area. Something has to change, and Europe has to decide: either a successful shift from transport to rail or 25 different national railway islands. From our point of view, the next five years are crucial to whether the rail can make its contribution to the Green Deal in Europe. We need to launch the Single European Railway Area in the European Year of Rail 2021, and not only do we need massive investments in infrastructure – which you have secured with your budget, Mrs Minister – but above all we need a profound reform of the railway sector in Europe. The obstacles to cross-border transport that have been artificially created for decades must be radically reduced so that real competition with the road can finally take place. Only in this way can we bring more people and more goods from the road to the rails, making rail transport in Europe more efficient and manageable. I believe we have really found ourselves in this House and also in this coalition. [[Federal Minister Geessler nodds.]] Mrs Minister, I wish you a lot of strength in the implementation and in this part that Austria can bring into the EU! You certainly have with us a reliable partner who is at your side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29493	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29514	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm now trying to set up a nice feedback sandwich for you. Let's start with the good: This is really an important law, a good law. It increases interoperability in Europe, which is something very important – we in Tyrol know exactly what we are talking about: If we drive 30 kilometres on the Brennerbahn, it says: Stay, Lokwahl et cetera, et cetera. In 21. In fact, this is one thing that should not exist. That this law is now taking a step in the direction that this story is being increased, that is good at all times. Railway safety is also important. I think of this every time I go with the Rainjet – which is of course very often the case now: The Rainjet rides at 230 km/h, and if you paint what would happen if, for example, a axis breaks, you don't want to think about it. This gives a good feeling, a sense of security, that the legal framework for railway safety is created here too. However, as it is part of a feedback sandwich, I have to say critical words, of course – I join Deimek – that is: Although the review process was exemplary, I still have to say: ==References== A meeting of the Transport Committee was held on 11 December. ==References== That we do not make the appropriate arrangements in a timely manner so that we can prepare ourselves here, and then, two hours before the decision-making process, submit a motion for amendment, in which it is a massive intervention, insofar as the authority's competence is now transferred from the rail infrastructure company to the ministry, without being able to make sure in all the details that the conditions have been created everywhere, that is of course already regrettable. I think that is something that should not be done if we are to ensure that we can make really sound decisions in this House. In addition, I have to express my concerns again: I know you mean it very seriously and you really want to create the mobility turnaround, and there is, of course, the railway on the front line, but I have always been concerned about whether this is happening with the coalition partner, because – I have mentioned it before – the ÖVP as a climate protection party, which somehow does not fit. Therefore, I would like to give you a warning or a warning about caution: If you hear it somewhere, then it's not a locomotive that's going to be modern, but maybe it's also the ÖVP you're trying back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29560	Next speaker: Mr Johann Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29584	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by referring to Mr Stöger's request for the implementation of ÖBB electrification. I must say that this request was already made in June 2020, and we can now – and I am very happy about this – discuss a framework plan that is very much based on an ambitious electrification strategy. By 2030, the electrification of railway lines with a length of about 500 kilometres is planned. We have now electrified 71 percent of the total distance, with these 500 kilometers it will be 85 percent. I am also convinced that in the next few years more powertrains will also be developed for the railway, so to speak, up to the standard maturity, so I do not think it is so desirable to make a 100% electrification now. I'm just saying, Let us also give new developments a chance! Ladies and gentlemen! In the next six years – the Federal Minister has already mentioned it – 17.5 billion euros will be invested in a modern rail network. Projects with a total volume of around 8 billion euros have now been incorporated into this framework plan. This means a huge investment boost for the train. I may add: These expenditures were jointly decided in the coalition and these investments will also be set in motion. There is no need to worry that there is a different view between the EIA and the Greens. What are the measures to be taken? – In all federal states, the regional railways are attracted – often addressed, an important aspect. The expansion of local transport in the conurbations is being forced, and digitisation and efficiency are being driven forward. The further expansion of the infrastructure for freight transport is also not lacking. Ladies and gentlemen! This programme will make rail transport much more attractive, it will make an important contribution to climate neutrality, and, Mr Stöger, it will be heavily invested in electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29626	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29651	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hörl has already presented intensively today the successes, the advantages and the achievements of the cable car industry. It is now about changing a pass in the cable car law, which is to regulate the automatic inhibition of scheduled runs. This would have to be done by means of regulations. Overall, we should mention that the cable car industry in Austria generates 5.9 billion euros in value added for GDP, that it ensures 17 000 jobs and that more than 9 billion euros have been invested in quality improvement in recent years. It can be claimed with fug and right that the Austrian cable car industry is the most modern world-wide. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weratschig.]] Our cable cars are currently standing. We hope and wish it was possible to start with Christmas. In January we should hopefully come to a certain farm if it happens under restrictions. I think it is extremely important for our country that we support the cable car industry with this passage today. It is simply a question of achieving value added and job creation in summer, especially in winter. Therefore, we should make a common shoulder closure. Finally, I must mention that this passus is valid for one year and limited to 31.12.2021. On behalf of the colleague Franz Hörlal's cable car speaker, I can invite everyone: Take advantage of the offer of the local cable car industry! I think value added in the country, work in the country is important especially in these times. Therefore, on behalf of my colleague Franz Hörlalle, I may invite you to use the Austrian cable cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29705	There is now no mention of this now. The debate is closed. Would the rapporteurs like a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the presentation of the Committee on Transport and continue on the agenda. [[00:01:12]] 37. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (473 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Chancellungsgesetz 1996 (548 d.b.) 38. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (464, e.g._Other Organiser Change in road transport regulations 1960 (550 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29748	We come to points 37 and 38 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29776	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In fact, we have hoped that we will be able to conclude this issue positively today. I also say the motivation, which also determined that two weeks ago only 1 400 Vienna taxi operators protested. These have been suffering for years under the situation that there are no uniform conditions of competition. Just what is so difficult to make clear to the British – if you have free trade and trade in goods, the same rules must apply – must also be achieved there. It has looked as if we were able to combine a solution with the single industry, which makes it possible to combine new business models – including those that practice the young people, that they can once book, have and drive a fixed price – in such a way that the crucial points can be prevented from taking advantage of the drivers and, in fact, they are only on the road for hunger wages, as we see in many cities on this earth. [[Abg. Schellhorn: The taxi centre also takes 30 percent!]] - Yeah, I'll come to the guys, we'll do that later, Sepp! The aim must be no matter who is behind it: There must be decent working conditions, and there must be a situation where dumping is prevented in any form – that ends with tax and social dumping. I have believed that after the failed government template a few weeks ago, we are on a good track to find a solution on the main taxi market in Vienna, which is what this means by setting a minimum price for the pre-ordered journeys, which is based on the taxameter tariff, and a maximum price to prevent people from working in self-exploitation. And logically, it is not according to the method of the citizens of Schilda. We have said and also made it clear in the Committee on Transport that we agree when three things are taken into account: firstly, what is stated in the explanatory statement, namely that a range can be defined by law; secondly, to allow the head of state of Vienna to be ordered by means of an official map material, because the Eich and Survey Office says that one cannot take any card; and thirdly, that this, of course, must enter into force together with the single trade. What the government parties are doing now means: ==References== January, the single market will enter into force without a new tariff. After that, two months later, a state captain can only adopt a tariff at all. And why are you doing that? – Everyone should know that, Sepp said in the intervening call: Those who have slept the technology and the development, the radio stations, sat in the neck and wanted it to enter into force because they hope that Uber and Bolt are now on 1st. They must disappear from the market and then act as in the previous decades in the oligopol alone. We do not join Uber, and we do not participate in this template at all. Choose it alone! I believe that on this basis there will be no decent tariff, and not the head of state in Vienna will be blamed, but ÖVP and Greens. You have not been ready for a minimum of expertise in the last few days. By the way: The book about the shield citizens was published in 1598, Peter Haubner, and I think after 422 years it should be enough. Unfortunately, I don't feel that yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29842	Mr Hermann Weratschnig is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29863	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Matznetter! What do we want now? What do we want, Mr Matznetter? Sometimes in your speeches, I feel that I have been resettled, and there was a beautiful TV show – “It’s the time” it was called – that one talked about at the time. At the time, 2019, there was a decision here in the House, one has united taxi and rental weights. This harmonisation shall enter into force at 1.1.2021. The entry into force would have been planned for September, and we have moved it for good reason. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You've got to turn it all around!]] The economy can depend on it – that was, I believe, a good reason – and has also insisted that on 1.1.2021 change, it is unified. Mr Matznetter, what we want are fair conditions and no one to remove from the market, not the rental weights, not the taxis, but we want one to live up to the digitization of our time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We do not want to take the scope for design, we do not want to limit it, we want to make it possible, and we do so with this innovation. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was a Council of Ministers' presentation and an intensive debate in the Transport Committee, including an intensive debate on the amendments and, of course, as mentioned, protests. I have to say quite clearly and clearly: We have heard the drivers, the car drivers and taxi drivers on the road, and in the future it will be a trade, and they will be represented together. I wish that the taxiinnung would represent everyone together and that there would be no longer the cone between these two groups. With the law and with the innovation we will do this and make the possibility available today. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The key points of this innovation are: A fixed price must be defined in advance for pre-ordered journeys via a communication service – so that we can clarify it again. The national leaders are given the opportunity to define a price band with minimum and upper limits. Therefore, the price can be determined flexibly according to objective criteria. That's the goal we're going to do. Where minimum or maximum charges or surcharges are fixed in the regulations of the countries depending on the length of the journey or the length of the journey, it may also be established that these indicators, namely journey duration and journey distance, are to be determined. It is important – I say this here in the House also for the interpretation of this innovation – to: The lower limit for the total price of pre-ordered journeys shall not be higher than the charges of the tariffs – should they be present in the countries. That is, I think, a very important area. You get in – you've pre-ordered, you know the price – and you don't need a taxameter. This is the principle in the pre-ordered journeys. The second point is also an important one: Other passengers may also be picked up from other places on pre-ordered journeys or transported to different destinations. That's what we call taxi sharing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus opening up a large window of opportunities: flexibility, ecology, efficiency, and cheap travel for passengers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I wish I could say that taxiinnung is fighting for everyone in the future and working for everyone. I hope that the industry will soon be good and that good business will be done. We are ready in the federal states when it comes to the regulations of the countries – of course also the city of Vienna – that we stand by the Council and act and support in the preparation of these regulations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I wish there were taxi companies and car rental companies that support public transport as a micro-oil, which is a very important goal. I would like us to be able to provide support and create a good mix of public transport, individual traffic and taxi and car rental services in the modal split. Finally, I wish at a later hour all those who also need it today that they come home well with a Vienna taxi or car rental. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29931	The next speaker is Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e29952	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! One thing has already been achieved in this brilliant debate: They've been moved up after the ghost hour. Before that, a comic amendment - I am still talking about it - has been made to ensure that the demonstrations of the taxi drivers stop, but let's proceed in a row. What was the meaning of changing the traffic law? – Quite simply: merge the two commercial taxis and rental cars with – under quotation marks – “weapons equality” into a trade and ensure fair opportunities for all. A great desire from us was of course also to ensure a corresponding increase in service for the customers. From our point of view, this is not the case with the first amendment or, more specifically, with the first regulation. In fact, this German obligation, which we still set out at the time, has been largely avoided, and therefore we are in fact back to the previous state. Then there's something else going on: You actually wrote the draft law, as it is available to us today, for Uber and Bolt, that is what you have to say – even that was not in the sense of the inventors. Mr Ottenschlager has put down a 180 degree drive, which is breathtaking. A pattern can be identified: We have, in turn, tried to leave Parliament outside and not to discuss too much, as is already the case on many points today – and now you have managed to have us discuss it after midnight. In fact, this is now a debate that may still be due to parliamentary order, but in fact you have no interest in talking about it. What happens to such a thing then? - The puss that is present today! If the new traffic law is to enter into force with 1.1.2021, the drivers will have a three-month transitional period for which they will have to introduce taxameters to comply with the provisions of the Chance Traffic Act. There's already the first discrepancy: Why is a draft law being passed today under pressure with all Drum and Dran, according to which the drivers have to drive around three months with a taxameter, which has no meaning three months later? That's where I'm looking for your answer. I don't think you were honest with the taxi drivers. Although there is now this amendment: It has actually changed nothing, and that is typical of the ÖVP. They say again: Well, then we'll shift responsibility to the heads of state! I think colleagues. Matznetter really is that perhaps one is still talking about it in Vienna, the main taxi market – but I am fully convinced that this will not be the case in the West, where you present the national leaders. It will not be the case in Upper Austria, it will not be the case in Lower Austria, and it will not be the case in Styria. The following will happen: that the heads of state do what you say, and that is under the line – you lied to the taxi drivers – that Uber and Bolt will be ahead of us. That's what the whole thing's going to do. I don't think you told the Greens the truth either, because I don't know if the Minister of Transport is aware that she is actually a compliance assistant from Sebastian Kurz, who traveled to Silicon Valley in his chancellor-free time, met the CEO of Uber and said there – I quote – that: “A flexible pricing is not a crime per se.” – Mr. Kurz said this in his chancellor-free time to the CEO of Uber. Now he's a chancellor again, and now he's obviously delivering. I am really excited, Mr Ottenschlager – in the committee you were still angry at me when I said it, but I repeat it again –: For how many silverlings did the ÖVP sell the taxi industry in Austria? – I would be interested. Next week, there will also be an advertisement at the Public Prosecutor's Office for Economic and Corruption, which concerns exactly this statement by Sebastian Kurz to the CEO of Uber. I really want to know what is going on in the background and how your national leaders will bow and, with the help of the Minister of Transport, prepare a law that will actually erase the taxi industry in Austria. That's what you'll do with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where I'm excited about how it's going to end up. We already have a nice committee of inquiry, which is about buying law. I'll tell you one thing: This is, in my view, a real purchase of law, and the Greens are involved, as in many other things too! [[Abg. Mr Hörl: Madam President!]] Mrs. Minister, I've already told you a couple of times: You're going to get more mint sometime and then notice what the ÖVP used everything for. For example, this is one of these points – in a few years we will talk differently about it, you can be insured. [[Abg. Mr Hörl: Madam President!]] I am eager to see what the economic and corruption prosecutor's office is doing in this regard. I think it's sad, Mr. Ottenschlager, that you've made such a turn, that you've betrayed the taxi drivers for a few silverlings. It introduces an amendment that represents a chuzpe and in fact does not change the situation of taxi drivers, ensuring that wage and social dumping can continue in the car rental sector. These are all things that you can really be proud of – I would generate for the whole story. Now perhaps one more word on road transport, Mrs Minister: This too is a chuzpe, if you present us with a draft law – which you rarely do anyway – which will ensure that you can remove weekend driving bans – no idea what you are doing in the shield. On the other hand, it's about you being able to expand your Covid-19 pedestrian zones – I'm saying so now salopp – so you don't have to deal with the High House after midnight. These are some funny ideas that you're kind of incubating – I can't understand them, so we're going to vote against them.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30023	Mr Hafenecker, for the statement “you lied to the taxi drivers”, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Thank you!]] The next speaker is Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30066	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If one repeats such accusations over and over again, they do not become more true, but it repeats an enormity, that is, this understatement, which is constantly being put into the room, and I can only reject it to the very extreme. I can also give you a proof. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weratschig.]] If we go back about two or two and a half years, the discussion has begun: How do we deal with the two different industries that have different conditions but do the same in the final effect? – After many discussions – because the whole thing is relatively complex, as we know – we have decided to put together both trades and create fair conditions for all those who move within this industry – in the truest sense of the word. In the summer of 2019, there was a broad majority in the House for a decision. You said earlier that Mr Matznetter should decide for whom he is actually speaking here – now I also ask: You're worried now, all at once, what in these two months between 1. January 1st and January 1st. March with companies like Uber, Bolt and Co? So what now, are you worried about this now or not? I don't understand. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That only shows how unable you are to make a law!]] We have made a real effort – Hermann Weratschnig and I, as well as Mrs. Minister with her cabinet – to talk over the last few weeks to find a meaningful and fair solution for all those involved. Now comes the jumping point: I think you are no longer talking to the representatives of the taxi drivers, who are now welcoming this novelle! They say: Okay, that's all right, they're fair conditions for everyone. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Because they have to!]] This contradicts what you here claim of any law purchase – I would think very strongly if you did not take it back! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Yes, it means changes for all companies that are moving in this industry – for all. It's not all 100 percent happy, but everyone said: Yeah, we're good at dealing with this. – In the end, it was always that way – and we do not change anything there, all of you who deal with the subject – that the design of tariffs, the price ranges that are now possible are country-related. We can discuss carefully whether this is going to be changed. But no one has actually taken this initiative and said: We are making a uniform federal arrangement for this. [[Call the NEOS: Don't vote!]] What we are doing here is to create a framework for the federal states, a kind of construction box, so that they can arrange tariffs for their regional circumstances accordingly, introduce pre-order systems and form price margins. They have freedom, they have a large building box, so that they can create a real target for their federal states, for each region the right framework from its point of view. – Nothing else we are doing here in Parliament. If you want to change this, then this is another debate – it has not been conducted. So that's what we're doing here: We create fair framework conditions for all, we give the federal states good opportunities to develop, by means of regulations, a fair framework for this industry – and that is the answer. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What you're blaming us here has nothing more to do with this. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's right, yes,... what you're doing there... about you is an insanity!]] [[Further call to the FPÖ.]] . I think you are too much influenced by the Committee of Inquiry, because this has nothing to do with the matter at all. We thus create a modern way of developing this industry forward-looking – and nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30168	The next speaker is Mr Alois Schroll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30192	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! To TOP 38 – Change in road traffic regulations 1960 – I would like to do the following: The weekend and holiday ban is a very essential issue for me especially in the current climate and environmental debate and in connection with the quality of life of affected residents, I believe I do not underestimate. Now, in the course of the Covid-19 Act, there is the possibility of abolishing this scheme by means of a regulation by the end of this month. The amendment before us now calls for an extension of this Regulation for a whole year, until the end of 2021. Why? – Because according to the Federal Government, the current deadline would not be sufficient. But please explain to us, ladies and gentlemen, why the Federal Government says that this change of law only allows us to abolish this weekend and holiday ban, but at the same time it sees no need to make use of this possibility in fact! I do not want to talk about the environmental aspect at all. According to government, we have a record budget for climate change and environmental protection. We hear slogans and goals, which we do not want to achieve, but at the same time we allow traffic on weekends and holidays under the cover of the Corona pandemic. I believe that we should also consider what other road users say about what railway operators say about what this means in general for road safety when more vehicles are on the road during the weekend. What contributes to the objective of ensuring the mobility of people and goods, taking into account environmental, social and economic sustainability, is really obscene to me. Just from your side, from the Greens in the government, I would have expected something else. That is why our side will definitely reject it, because we simply consider it to be excessive and too long-term. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30230	The next speaker is Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30251	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We see this law as quite positive, because we believe that competition – and not only can we think of competition – is basically positive and contributes to innovation and to the improvement of solutions. In this sense, one can expect from the really present withdrawal – from the fact that, in connection with the merger of the two trades, one has come to realize in good time that this will not work so well – that this model will work. We must be aware that there will be much more digital links between supply and demand in the future. If such things occur, this has also led to defences in other areas. But that doesn't make any sense. One cannot resist this, one cannot build walls against progress. I can tell you, I'm in contact with taxi drivers in Tyrol, and they don't see this solution so negative, they say: Yes, this also offers us opportunities to transport guests with fixed pre-arranged fare! – So they don’t just see this as a problem. The situation is, of course, that this law is already at the moment, because the taxi industry is currently in bad shape. One has to imagine this: no Christmas celebrations, no events, nothing at all, since sales break out to a large extent – and there we should act from the high house. I also ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, that you in the government make a strong contribution to the creation of revenue for taxi companies, because they are indirectly affected. You can't just finish them and say: So you're not locked, you're allowed to drive! - So much for it. But I still have to make an amendment because I have read the text of the law carefully. When the heart is full, the word processing Uber – ah, goes over. In the draft, therefore, a “over ” has gone too far. That is the point 3 in the previous sentence: ‘nearer to the order process, as in particular’. So there is a “over ” too much. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[0:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30347	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Julia Herr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30372	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Yes, the hour is late, the topic is hot, I just say at this point. It may have been noted – to all here in the hall, who are already hanging through, I mean, it starts the 16. Time of this meeting –: All those who have always said that the 12-hour day and the 60-hour week are so canvas, should now look here in this room, as one should still be as concentrated after so many hours of work as at the beginning. I would also say to you that this is no longer the case if you work through so many hours. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But it's actually about the taxis. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] – Yes, yes, the 12-hour day, the ÖVP is fully applied. If you work here in the first district and take a taxi from time to time and get into the parliament or in front of the Hofburg, then it can be – and not only has this happened to me – that one of the taxi drivers or taxi driver asks if you have something to do with politics. When I answered with Yes, my taxi driver asked me where we really are, how it can be that he is driving with his registered taxi exactly at the negotiated taxi fare with the taxameter in the car, no longer asking for a cent to pay his taxes every day on the daily routes, really never has a cent room, as it is that this applies to him, but to others apparently not, and how it can be that someone comes here and says: Hi, I'm Uber, I'm completely new and innovative, for me this just doesn't apply! He asked me if he was there. Only he did not use the word stupidly, but another, and asked me how I could justify it as a politician. My answer was: Not at all! I don't see why a taxi driver has to stick to a negotiated taxi fare, have no room for play, and the others can just drive cheaper. What you make possible here is social and wage dumping. – You have to say that at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The colleague of the Greens has explained exactly what it will be like: The taxi fare does not apply to the journeys you ordered in advance, but there is an upper limit and a lower limit. Yeah, but what does that mean, an upper and lower limit? – It can then easily drive cheaper. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Sieber and Mr Haubner.]] You know what, before you get upset with your salary, with the salary we all have here: Taxi drivers and taxi drivers have an extremely low profit margin. There's not much left. They have to see that this is going to happen. If you're here Let there be a further aggravation, then it will become even more difficult. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, yes! Okay, Boomer! I'll come to the end, too. At this point it is said: I'd ask you, slogans like: Whoever works is not allowed to be stupid! or: Performance must pay off! not to use in the future. I have already recommended this to you when you have shortened the pensions to the people who have worked hard for 45 years. Also at this point it is noted again: It cannot be that the people who work every day and drive with the taxi are exposed to immense competition and pressure. It's just not fair. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30462	Next speaker: Mr Joachim Schnabel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30486	Madam President. Minister of Finance! High house! Mr Matznetter thinks that we had too little talk with him because the SPÖ would probably have gone along with this law. I am no longer sure that this would have been possible, following the speech by Mrs Herr, who is actually asking Diametrics for the comments made by Mr Matznetter. Actually, I am convinced that this would have been impossible, because you have even split up what your opinion is. Perhaps you would have voted differently, but it would never have been possible to make a regulation with you! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weratschig.]] I am no longer referring to the details that many of my previous speakers have already mentioned as regards the integration and the single trade, but I would like to highlight a sub-area which Mr Weratschnig has taken out, and that is the area of micro-oil, the collective taxi systems that exist in rural areas. When Mr Hafenecker says that the federal states are not adopted, or only limited individual provisions: As one of the few Landerlanders, Styria has a comprehensive taxi tariff regulation, and the State Councillor is now innovation it so that there are corresponding rules with 1.1.2021. But we have also discussed the Transport Telematics Report in the Transport Committee, and two things that work together have become clear to me there: Digitalization is available in many projects. It is unsustainable by us and will make a lot of change, up to autonomous driving, sometime also in the taxi industry. There are many regions that are already implementing the micro-oil system with digital support. What is digital support in the micro-oil system? – Driving wishes are combined, optimized and booked with fixed prices for the users. The software in the background, however, combines and correlates the data with the data coming from the traffic information Austria, thus allowing public participations for rural areas as well as the connection to public transport with a first and last mile, and the medium-term hopefully with a ticket. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weratschig.]] To the software itself: It doesn't always have to come from the USA or Asia. I alone know seven software providers from Austria or Germany, and they do not offer small computer solutions, but products that include, among other things, the post office, are used by the Graz-Köflacher Bahn and Deutsche Bahn, i.e. by giant companies. What does that mean? – You always resort to Bolt and Co, but there are also marketable, European, Austrian alternatives – you just have to make them known and use them. That's why: We also benefit from digitalisation as an opportunity in this area, both in urban and rural areas! Let's sit on the native software forging! There are also modern alternatives.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30550	Mr Christoph Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30574	Madam President, I know the rules. Mr Schnabel, whom I first observed here, said that there is such a contradiction between the honourable Member and me that we cannot expect an agreement to be reached. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] – I’m actually correcting: We have both declared ourselves against a ruinous dumping competition and for secure conditions for the people working there. This is the exact opposite of what you have said here, Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30607	The Rules of Procedure have been somewhat strengthened by this actual correction. The next speaker is Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30635	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the subject has been taking us relatively long. We have already led debates to that in 2019. When I look back on what we discussed then, I have to say: Well, late on, reason has returned to the ÖVP, and you have again begun to believe in the market economy, which I would almost call a miracle after the last debate. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] With this innovation, at the last possible time – not just today’s time, but in general – we are taking the step of averting the catastrophe that would have come upon us, namely that we would have buried the car rental industry or the platforms, the intermediaries and the innovation that goes with them at the end of the year and caused them to die. The open competition we now allow at least on certain routes – I also say quite openly and honestly, I would have taken further steps there, and I also believe that this is not the optimum in the case of Weitem – it is this competition that has allowed innovations over the past few years and decades. These are mediation platforms, which are ways of making taxi sharing, as it was addressed, all of these opportunities that have come through innovations. If it had not been – I tell you that quite openly and honestly – then the taxi industry would still be stuck in 1950. That's exactly what it's got to do. Our task as politicians is to fight against it and develop it further. Of course, it needs fair rules of play. That is quite clear, and we have always known this in this debate. It takes quite clear and fair rules to create the same conditions for all. We are going one step further, I am glad, but, as I said, I think one could go a lot further. I'd like to clean up with a Mar, because here comes again and again, it's just about Uber. It is about quite, quite a lot of companies and entrepreneurs in Austria, many small car rental companies and many more innovative companies. Holmi, for example, is a new, future intermediary from Austria, who has signaled willingness and has also developed further and enabled new forms of transport. In addition, there are a lot of others inside the car rental industry, which now do not offer this classic transport service, which is always called taxi. These are health transports and so on, all of which are affected by this construction. Accordingly, I think it is very important that we continue to take further steps in order to develop this industry and to avoid this development, because I believe that this would be very bad at the end of the day for all, for entrepreneurs and, in particular, for consumers. There are a lot of people who will still be using this today, here in the room. I wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30689	Mrs. Geessler has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30716	Short! – Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can understand it, it is late – nevertheless, I spoke in the Committee on Transport at the end of this debate, I do it again now. First: The rules for package travel, as they have so far been in the law, as they have been last decided, were not practical. This did not happen to us in the ministry, which was a request, among other things, from the conference of national economic experts. They said they could not operate with what has been decided and asked for clarification. This clarification is now being made, and we have been able to clear out very, very, very many of the misunderstandings that have arisen for all those involved, certainly also for colleagues, Matznetter, very intensive discussions. Because such misunderstandings still exist in the debate, I would like to clear them again. There are uniform rules, taxis and rental cars are combined into a fully uniform trade from 1.1.2021 onwards. The same rules apply to all except the same rules. All drivers need a taxi ticket, all have the same training, all have to meet the same quality standards, all are subject to the same rules for travel prices, all are subject to the same rules if they want to offer pre-ordered journeys, all are subject to the same rules if they want to drive with taxameter. There's no difference. We give the countries better opportunities to do exactly what they call for, namely, for pre-ordered journeys, price bands, which are based on objective criteria such as likely journey duration and distance. We are opening them up exactly this opportunity. We have been able to eliminate very, very many misunderstandings in the last few weeks, so today, after intensive debates, we are launching a novel that will enable us to make innovative and digital offers possible, but also give security and improve the ability to act in relation to the previous decision-making process for the federal states. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] A keyword to the second government template, amendment of the STVO: This is an extension on the one hand. Colleagues Schroll takes them too long as I've heard. But today we cannot estimate how long we will have this exceptional situation. There is the possibility to remove weekend and holiday bans. That doesn't mean we have to make use of it. I would also like to stress once again in this context: We observe the situation very closely. There is currently no need for this, but I would like to be able to make it possible to travel home if the handlemen are back on borders. This novel is also used for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30762	Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer, you will speak next. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30786	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Inputs: The NEOS can prove in the Vienna coalition how they implement liberalisation. On the comments of Mrs Herr: Since you are putting the 12-hour working day here to debate, I would like to say something to you. My grandfather was one of the first taxi drivers in Imst – this is a city in Tyrol. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] This would turn around in the grave today in view of how to speak here of taxi operators and their employees. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I do not want to talk about social dumping, because I consider the accusation in this context to be a groundless cowardice. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to address another issue: Trucks are a very bad word for you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and for many here in this room. Many also say: In this crisis, we have shown how important the transport industry is in order to ensure security of supply. I am glad that this change in road traffic regulations will enable us to suspend the ban on night and weekend driving, which is very, very important for the industry. Mr Stöger said in the Committee that this is all crazy, because you don't need to drive in-the-night, they should just drive more during the day. You might want to think in a circle rather than in a linear way. It is also necessary to process the goods that are delivered. Temperature measurements must be carried out properly, and much more. Just to say, you don't need that, I don't think it's quite right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to give you something along the way: The truck brings food, the truck brings wood, the truck brings many goods we need every day. The bad truck – no one wants it, but everyone needs it. - Good night.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30864	Mrs Ulrike Fischer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30892	You'll hear what it's all about: It's just a small thing on your own. We have spoken here today of the importance of combating food waste. In the canteen there are still fresh pastries, fresh alarm clocks. They're still fresh today, but they're gone tomorrow, unfortunately. You know where they're going. Please get them! In the future, we will organize this differently. Please get the alarm clock, otherwise I'll have to take everyone home.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30916	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I still have to ask you a little attention. There is now no one to speak in this debate, so it is also closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. [[00:47:16]] Vote on agenda items 34 to 38
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e30943	We come to the votes and I ask the political groups whether we can take part in the voting process. – That’s the case, so I’m going to do the same. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 34: Draft federal law amending the Railway Act 1957 and the Accident Investigation Act in 547 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an additional or amendment tabled by Mr Ottenschlager, Mr Weratschnig, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Ottenschlager, Mr Weratschnig, Mr President, have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would also ask for a sign of approval here. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in the third reading, I would like to ask for a sign. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall vote on agenda item 35: Draft federal law amending the cable car law 2003 including title and entry into 477 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this bill, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 36: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 551 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 37: Draft federal law amending the on-the-spot traffic law in 1996 in 548 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Margreiter, fellow Members. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Margreiter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on paragraph 3. Who is speaking out for this? – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 38: Draft federal law amending the road transport regulations in 1960, together with the title and receipt in 550 of the supplements. Who is in favour of this bill? - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:51:28]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e31079	We come to the vote on the request by Mr Stephanie Krisper, colleagues, to the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on motion 1018/A(E) for a deadline to 14. to be set up on December 2020. Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. [[00:51:56]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e31108	I would like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 9, 12 to 28, 30 to 32, 34 and 35 and 37 and 38 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: Agenda item 1: ‘The amendment Annex 1/2 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 516 of the Supplements, shall be adopted in a separate vote in the second reading, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 1/3 and at third reading [...].’ Agenda item 2: ‘The draft law is adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 509 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for an Supplement 2/1.’ Agenda item 3: ‘The amendment Annex 3/1 is rejected [...]. The amendment Annex 3/2 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 517 of the Supplements in second [...] and third reading [...].’ Agenda item 4: ‘The amendment Annex 4/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 587 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 4/2 in second [...] and third reading [...].’ Agenda item 5: ‘The amendment Annex 5/2 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 588 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 5/1 in second [...] and third reading [...].’ Agenda item 6: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 510 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 7: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 511 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 8: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third reading, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 512 of the Supplements, in the presence of the intended number of Members [...], with the required two-thirds majority.’ Agenda item 9: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 513 of the Supplements, in the presence of the intended number of Members [...], with the required two-thirds majority.’ Agenda item 12: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request, in 507 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 13: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 508 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 14: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 486 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 16: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 489 in accordance with the Committee’s proposal. Agenda item 17: 'The conclusion of the State Treaty and the Protocol shall be, in accordance with the Committee's request, in 490 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 18: ‘The referral request Supplement 18/I is rejected [...].’ ‘The amendment Annex 18/3 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 492 of the Supplements, shall be adopted at second reading in separate vote in the second reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 18/2 and at third reading [...].’ ‘The motion for a resolution Supplement 18/4 is adopted.’ Agenda item 19: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 488 of the Supplements at second and third readings [...].’ Agenda item 20: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 491 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a supplement 20/1.’ Agenda item 21: ‘The referral request Supplement 21/I is rejected [...].’ ‘The amendment Annex 21/2 is rejected in a natural vote [...]. The amendment Annex 21/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 493 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’s proposal.’ Agenda item 22: ‘The referral request Supplement 22/I is rejected [...].’ ‘The amendment Annex 22/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 494 in accordance with the Committee’s proposal.’ Agenda item 23: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 495 of the Supplements at second and third reading [...]. The motion for a resolution Supplement 23/1 EA is hereby adopted.’ Agenda item 24: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 591 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 25: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 592 in accordance with the Committee’s proposal. Agenda item 26: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 593 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 27: ‘The amendment Annex 27/1 is rejected [...]. The amendment Annex 27/2 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 594 of the Supplements – in the presence of the planned number of Members – is adopted in second [...] and third reading [...] – with the required two-thirds majority.” Agenda item 28: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 595 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment Annex 28/1 – in the presence of the proposed number of Members – in second and third readings [...] – with the required two-thirds majority.” Agenda item 30: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 505 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 31: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request, in 503 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved. Furthermore, in accordance with the current Committee’s application as amended by the pressurised correction [...] Supplement 31/1 [...], it is decided that this State Treaty within the meaning of Art. Paragraph 50 2 Z 4 B-VG by passing laws is to be fulfilled’. Agenda item 32: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the proposal in 504 of the second and third reading supplements [...].’ Agenda item 34: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 547 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 34/1 in second [...] and third reading [...].’ Agenda item 35: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 549 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 37: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 548 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 37/1.’ Agenda item 38: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 550 of the Supplements in accordance with the Committee’. I ask you whether there are objections to the version or content of these parts of the Official Protocol. – That does not seem to be the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[01:01:13]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-10-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00069_d8e31407	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 1130/A(E) to 1159/A(E). I call the next meeting of the National Council at 1.01 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
