ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e806	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall open the 16th. Meeting of the National Council. I'll let you on this extraordinary day, 15. March, welcome you and remind you once again to comply with all the hygienic measures and precautions and also to use, among other things, the disinfectant donors at the entrances. I also ask the employees and, above all, the media people to do so in the same way. I welcome the representatives of the Federal Government, at the head of German Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors, and I warmly welcome the spectators at home. I should like to say once again that, as in yesterday's sitting, we are sitting in an extended distance and that we will be brief in the places at the end of today's sitting when the votes take place. Ladies and gentlemen are present at the gallery or in the adversities in the house. Deputies Kira Grünberg, Franz Hörl, Andreas Ottenschlager, Ing are reported to have been prevented for today's meeting. Markus Vogl, Nurten Yılmaz, Dr. Susanne Principal, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Petra Steger, David Stögmüller, Mag. Nina Tomaselli, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer, Fiona Fiedler, BEd. I can announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 11 a.m. and from ORF III to full length from 11 a.m. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e883	In order to be able to negotiate items 1 to 4 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 1 to 4 are reports or reports and requests from the Budget Committee on the request 396/A of MEPs Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues and colleagues concerning COVID-19 Act, 102 of the Supplements; on the draft federal law amending the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses and the Federal Act on Vocational Audit, 103 of the Supplements; on the draft federal law amending the Criminal Procedures Act 104 of the Supplements; and on the draft federal law amending the Law on Economic Chambers, 105 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of this, I ask him to set a corresponding sign; the Members in plenary by standing up and those in the gallery by handsigns. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e912	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 to 4 of the agenda be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e934	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure have been agreed that the speaking time per club is 30 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure will limit the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club to 5 minutes in today's debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on speaking time. I'm allowed to ask for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We are therefore going into the agenda. [[09:13:44]] 1. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Request 396/A by August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, BA, colleagues concerning a Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on the establishment of the COVID-19 crisis management fund (COVID-19-FondsG) and a federal law on provisional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 (COVID-19 Act), as well as the Legal Budget Provision 2020, the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022, the Federal Act on the establishment of a Degradation Shareholders' Company of the Federal Government, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the Labour Market Service Act and the Labour Contract Amendment Act (COVID-19 Act) (102 d.e.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses and the Federal Law on Vocational Mature Examination (103 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the 1975 Criminal Procedure Code (104, e.g.) 4. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the 1998 Chamber of Commerce Act (105, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1011	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1040	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! We meet today at a time of challenge, at a time of crisis, in a situation where it is important that we all stand together. The spread of the corona virus does not surprise us, it does not meet us unprepared, but nevertheless this virus confronts us in Europe and in Austria with a hardness, as many of us cannot imagine. We must bear in mind that our whole neighboring country of Italy is quarantined, that there are dying people there who can only say goodbye to their families by telephone, because the risk of infection is too great that there must be doctors to decide who they are treating, because the capacities in the hospitals are no longer sufficient to treat everyone who needs help. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not telling you this to spread panic, but I am saying this clearly because in the last few days I still have to deal with people, even in politics that is impoverished, who do not want to see it true, who cannot understand it or do not see the seriousness of the situation. I have already announced, together with the Federal Government, that from tomorrow on, our social contacts in Austria will have to be reduced to a minimum that Austria needs to be run down to an emergency operation. This means that schools will no longer be taught; care will be taken for all those who need it urgently. Businesses remain closed with the exception of the necessary supply of food, medications and others. In addition, the decisions to be taken today will allow us to take further decisive steps to control the virus. Meetings will be completely forbidden in time. Furthermore, freedom of movement in our country in the public area is severely restricted. This means that sports courts, playgrounds and other places of public encounter are closed. The Austrians are invited to isolate themselves, which means that they maintain social contacts exclusively with those people they live with. After the original concern of many people about the food supply God has relaxed in the course of the last day and we can see that the number of ham-supply purchases is decreasing, the restaurants will be completely closed from Tuesday, as the food supply will be guaranteed via supermarkets and delivery services. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Austrians, it applies: Stay home! There are only three reasons in the future to leave the house: First of all, professional work that is not postponable; second, urgently necessary supplies such as food or pharmacy; and third, if you need to help other people who need your support, such as those in need of care or people with disabilities. If you feel the urgent need to represent your feet – I am often asked – then do this exclusively on your own or with the people you live with in the apartment. Hold on. Distance to others and don't meet people you don't live with! Since there is a special situation in the federal state of Tyrol, Landeshuptmann Platter will announce further steps for the state of Tyrol, which are particularly valid for this state. Dear Austrians! All of us in the Federal Government are aware that these are massive restrictions for each individual, but these steps are necessary in order to defend the health of the Austrian population and in particular to protect the older generation in our country. These measures are not about us as young people, they are about protecting our parents' and grandparents' generation. We all have to put in place these measures together to starve the virus. We must ensure that the spread slows down, so that in hospitals there are the necessary capacities to provide the population of Austria. In order to support these consistent measures domestically and to prevent further introduction of the virus from externally to Austria, entry regulations are further intensified. In the future, passengers from Great Britain, the Netherlands, Russia and Ukraine will no longer be able to travel directly to Austria, flights to these countries will be stopped. In addition to the task of slowing down the spread of the virus, security of supply must of course be ensured in Austria. I can guarantee all Austrians that this is also the case. This applies to supermarkets as well as to pharmacies; this applies to everything it needs for daily life. However, to ensure that this is also ensured in the long term, I have instructed the Minister of Defence to stop the forthcoming removal of ground military servants and to establish the willingness of some units of the militia. They will support the police and thus be a necessary strategic reserve for logistical challenges. In addition, I have mobilised Minister Elisabeth Köstinger’s efforts to extend the service period of existing civilian servants and other civil servants who have been actively serving in the health and care sector over the last five years, so that potential bottlenecks in the care sector and in the 24-hour service can be avoided by supporting civilian servants. I would like to thank all the young men who are needed to get ready now if the service to the Republic and in particular to the people of the advanced age is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! This crisis, of course, also leads to enormous economic challenges. Many people are concerned about how their jobs continue, and many entrepreneurs are rightly concerned about how to proceed if their business base breaks away at least on time. So today, together with you, ladies and gentlemen in the House, we want to decide on a comprehensive corona crisis package to support the location and the workforce. The package of 4 billion euros builds on three pillars. First of all: Job security through special care periods, short-time work and other measures; secondly, the liquidity of companies through credit guarantees, bridge credit and tax subsidies; and thirdly, in cases of hardness, in particular with EPCs and family businesses. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would like to express my thanks to you for allowing today's meeting and giving you the chance that this aid package can be decided and that we can also put in place the necessary legal measures to protect the people as best we can. As a Republic, we are also capable of action at this difficult time and can support entrepreneurs, but also workers as much as possible. I would like to thank Vice-Chancellor Werner Kogler in particular today for the excellent cooperation and the truly trusting relationship in this exceptional situation. I would like to thank the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior who bears the main responsibility for medical care, but also for public safety in our country. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Labour and the Social Partners for the opportunity to negotiate and initiate an economic package as quickly as possible. In addition, I would like to thank all Austrians who will be making an important contribution to the fact that the virus will not spread or at least slow down its spread in the near future by abandoning and conscious acceleration. I know from my own family how difficult this is for some people, I know from your own family how much persuasion was needed and necessary, but believe me, it's the only way we have. I would like to thank all those people who are currently overhuman. These are all those who do their service every day in this difficult situation. These are the employees in the health sector, in the care, the police, the workers of the federal army and the civilians. However, it is especially the employees in the supermarkets and in the pharmacies who are currently struggling with special stress situations. I thank all of them for this invaluable contribution to Austrian society. [[General condolences.]] Dear Austrians, it will be challenging, difficult and painful weeks, a critical time in which we will have to stop and slow down the spread of the virus with all our strength and consequence, in the hope that we will be able to rise again to Easter socially, economically and socially, and continue our lives as we appreciate and love it. But one thing we must be aware of until then: We are facing a task that no one can handle alone. We face a task in which everyone has to stand together, we face a task in which everyone has a responsibility, and we face a task in which everyone has to make his contribution. As a team, as a team of Austria we can also meet this challenge, and I ask you to support it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1135	Mr Kogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate spectators at home! We experience not only crisis-like days, but also dramatic days. I would particularly like to speak to the spectators today, because we in the Federal Government are seeing and supporting the proposed measures to be put forward, and also the appeal to the voluntaryness of your behaviour. Thank you for your cohesion in the Federal Government too. But first of all, thanks to those who have already been addressed: to the helpers – I deliberately start – in the health system, the nurses, the doctors, the nurses and nurses, also the teachers who are still helping in the school business – which is quite different – who are there, so that those who need to be still in work know their children well. It is so often spoken of by the supermarket cashiers, now also, but again different: I believe that in these difficult times, when it is called holding together and helping together, the much stressed and apotrophic supermarket helpers are, in truth, the heroes of everyday life of our days, and for that they really deserve affection and thanks. [[General condolences.]] I can only join the appeals: In essence, it will help us to reduce the so-called social contacts – the topic has become famous now, perhaps it is too abstract for some; we have already received evidence about it – to a minimum. I do not want to repeat all of this now, but those who have to be necessarily in contact, also in the shops for supply, in banks, in drug markets, in the trafiques: Keep your distance! That's what helps most. We may not all have understood it quickly enough, we try now. Please stick to it! Just make the most necessary out of your apartment, and then, if you need to get out, don't be in smaller or larger groups! Why do I say that? . We took up reports of observations very consciously and had to hear again and again until Friday and yesterday afternoon – in the evening the situation was different, according to reports – that many of us have obviously not fully understood this and that large groups in the parks, on the Mariahilfer Straße, are pressing straight. That can't be it, and I'm saying, That can't be anymore! We will do everything we can to stop this if it is not voluntary. I also have a resort, the sports resort. I don't want to bore you there, I just want to say what I mean when I say we're wildly determined: Until Friday, news has reached me that sports clubs – the smaller ones below – still want to hold training units for children and young people – but hello!, wake up! – with the thought behind it – because it becomes particularly fragile – that the children and the young people may not even have symptoms or any particular illness. – Yes, this is completely perverse and absurd! It must be about it – and everyone must have understood it now – that we stop the carriers from spreading the virus, and that is of course precisely the children who carry it through their social behaviour, precisely to where it is least part, namely to the elderly and to the health pre-loaded et cetera. Whoever does not understand this, I tell him – I can only speak of the sports clubs now to give an example; I have no authority to order –: We will look at this, from the big associations down to the bottom, and whoever does not comply with it from Monday, that is from tomorrow, he can say goodbye once for years of funding – of which we pour enough – both the associations that organize these companies, as well as the sports venue operators who stand up for millions to expand and rebuild sports venues. [[Congratulations on Members of Greens, SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Intercessions by Mr Martin Graf and Mr Wurm.]] I'm serious. Everyone should stick to it, and those who do not stick to it may also expect consequences. [[Abg. Kickl: But it also needs clear specifications!]] – If you are speaking from the FPÖ, I can tell you: We're wildly determined. [[Abg. Kickl: Clear rules!]] – Yes, of course, because of clear specifications! [[Abg. Kickl: But it didn't exist!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, clear specifications, but also support!]] We just heard: There will be no more training sessions from tomorrow. That's quite logical, we just heard it. This is really my concern: only the most necessary thing to do outside, as we have said! As far as employment is concerned, in this sense also an appeal to entrepreneurs, who are crucial according to the current legal situation: Please consider and make sure that only the most necessary services and productions are provided so that as many people as possible can stay at home. Again, the motto: Now it's called holding together and helping together! Why is that so important? – Because this is certainly the most targeted measure. At present, the most effective measure, which concerns as many as possible – and it has been expanded – is not to maintain any further social contacts due to the means of transmission that are not necessarily necessary. We people obviously have the problem – and evolution has not yet been enough – that we do not know what an exponential increase is; I say: exploding increase in cases – you might rather understand. If we think we have 1,000 cases in the next days – Monday or Tuesday – then the further increase is as follows: [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It's 800 today!]] Some people have this so in mind that it will be 2,000 cases in a given period, then 3,000, then 4,000. That's not the way it is. There is a doubling period, which is currently about three days. If we do, that means: 1 000, 2 000, 4000, 8 000, 16 000, 32 000, 64 000, 128 000. – These are assumptions, yes, I just want to make it clear once. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It's 52 hours! Two days!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, but that's wrong! Two days!]] – Yes, if the doubling period is shorter, then it goes even faster. In any event, in this respect, we would have torn the 100 000 mark at the beginning, in mid-April. Now I think and think that from the back to the front: It is about the capacity limits in the health system, that is the decisive thing! We must prevent the collapse or the fusion of intensive medical care. If we have 100 000 cases, we will see what this means for the most serious disease, which is, of course, a small part of it, and those who need to be treated intensively. We want to prevent conditions like in Lombardy or in Bergamo. Read the reports from the doctors there! Rudi Anschober, who, I think, is still speaking now, always says – I can quote him at this point – that it reads like situation reports from war zones. That must drive us to do all we can. I would like to focus briefly on the employment, economic location and further job security assistance package. The order of resources to be used is: to protect first health – this will also cost a little – second employment – that is to secure jobs, to support entrepreneurs – and thirdly to give hope for reconstruction, for restarting, perhaps there or there for a start-up. We connect this with the 4-billion-euro package. What does it mean, when it is said, to create liquidity, to secure jobs and to help in cases of hardship? – We have several instruments available. These 4 billion euros are, moreover, fresh money, unlike elsewhere, and we will take exactly the following measures: Entrepreneurships should be brought about by the fact that they have the corresponding liquidity. This can be done by supporting taxes, social security contributions et cetera, by guaranteeing loans, providing direct loans, or by providing fund payments. We consider this important from the principle: If we help the individual, we also help the whole because this does not dry the economy out. If we want to maintain the blood circulation of the economy, then the money must remain in the economic cycle, and if the individuals now get money, then it remains there as a whole. Of course, it will not be possible to keep the budget, it is quite clear, but a balanced budget is totally subordinated in times like this, of course; I see it exactly as the Minister of Finance. However, we will need further measures that will also cost money to get out of this crisis and to make appropriate investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1294	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1316	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies, gentlemen! Dear Austrians! It is a special feature that a National Council meeting and a Federal Council meeting will take place on Sunday to decide on a very important legislative package, a support package for people in our country, for workers, for businesses and for the population as a whole, so that we can best survive this crisis period. At this point, I would like to thank the Federal Government – especially the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor, especially the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Interior, who informs daily the public, honestly and transparently about the effects and spread of the Coronavirus. I would also like to thank you very much for all the measures that have already been taken and will come that have already been announced by the Federal Chancellor today, because it is simply necessary that we reduce all our social contacts to a minimum. I have the impression sometimes that this has not happened everywhere. I do not want to recall the pictures from Italy again, but it is a very challenging situation in which our neighboring country is located. The corona virus is spreading rapidly across Europe, and the situation is therefore to be taken seriously. That is why I support all those measures that will be taken with all the effects they will have. The top priority, ladies and gentlemen Mr President, it is to preserve the health of the Austrians that all these measures are to be supported. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] From tomorrow, the operation in Austria is going down to a minimum, one could say, to a kind of emergency operation. It is difficult for many people to understand this, I also notice it in my environment. But it is necessary to do this so that we can flatten the curve of the rise of people infected with the corona virus so that we do not have to reach this summit in order to simply infect fewer people. This is only possible if we really set the social contacts as best we can. It remains the security of supply in Austria, we can guarantee that. In terms of shopping, supermarkets, critical infrastructure, medical care, safety in our country: All of this remains upright. I would like to thank you very sincerely, at this point, all those who work in these areas; they are doing a job whose value we will probably be able to evaluate so correctly only after this crisis: all the salesmen who are in business every day, the police, the entire security staff, the entire health staff in the hospitals, in the nursing homes, which it does not have easily in these days and weeks. I would like to thank them all very much. – Without you, ladies and gentlemen, which you are here for us right now, it would not be possible to maintain this farm and ensure the security of supply to the population! [[I would like to congratulate the ÖVP and the representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] We have a first package here today, and I express my express thanks to all the groups of the House. We have set aside all the deadlines, all that else has to do with the Rules of Procedure, because it is necessary. – Really, thank you very much for allowing us to link a 4-billion-euro package within one day – we started yesterday at 5 p.m., and I hope that the Federal Council will be able to take the relevant decision at about 5 p.m. today – to support easily: so that the jobs of our employees will be preserved, secure as best as possible, so that the liquidity of the businesses will be maintained and secured and that we can also best handle hardship cases. We know that this is very difficult times for many people in our Republic – whether they are employees, whether they are entrepreneurs – that is what we are fully aware of. – Please carry but also Let us take these measures completely, it is about the health of our people! We agree with this package, I thank you for it, and this is a first step in this very, very challenging time. Of course, the Minister of Health is also concerned about building up Lazarette in the federal states so that we can prepare ourselves for possible bottlenecks in the hospital beds, at the best possible for intensive beds. Dear Austrians, ladies and gentlemen, stay at home! Stay home! I can only put this to your heart once more. Go shopping if you need something! Those who have to work must, of course, go to work. We also need you, ladies and gentlemen. Help those people who cannot help themselves, that is also important! But otherwise: Decrease Please contact all social contacts, including within your own families! It's coming Easter: Please stay at home – especially the older generation! There should not be family meals with 30, 40, 50 people at home. because you can't go to the hosts at the moment! This is not the right thing now, but the right thing is to stay alone as far as possible, even once alone or with the people living in close surroundings, going outside and representing their feet – that is no question. We must do everything we can to reduce the spread of this virus to a minimum. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again for allowing us to decide today! I wish we and you all a good time, hopefully we can best deal with this together. I assume because in Austria we have always shown, even in difficult situations, that we stand together, stick together and see that we also master difficult times together best possible. – In this sense a warm thank you once again!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1391	MEPs are speaking on behalf of Mr Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1412	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What we have experienced in the last few days, in the last few weeks in Austria and in Europe, has not yet been there. We are experiencing one of the biggest health crises in our continent. It was six weeks ago, 30. January this year, when the World Health Organization declared the international health emergency. The situation is serious, it is very serious. When we look at Italy, we have to say: The situation there is dramatic. Therefore, we must do everything we can to ensure that what Italy – its population – is going through at present does not happen in Austria as well. If many may not be able to imagine that the Italian situation could also occur in Austria, I say: Let's not cheat! If we do not take measures, it would even be very likely that we will have similar conditions to those in Italy. Yes, Austria has decided largely to: Measures that will lead to severe restrictions, measures that will be difficult for many people in Austria, but I say to you: From a medical point of view, there is no alternative to these measures. Only in this way can the spread of the virus be successfully slowed down, it is about protecting our health. The question is often asked: Are these measures necessary? – Yes, they are necessary. – Are you sufficient? – No one can say this with certainty at this time, and no one can rule out the need for further action. – Is the danger restricted, is it banned? – In response there is only a clear, loud, clear No! The danger is not prohibited – today’s stand. The risk of infecting with the virus is very, very big. An infection means a very great danger for a certain group in our population, namely for our older fellow citizens, and can be very complicated. I can only appeal to everyone, especially to our older people: Be careful, be sound and disciplined and keep your social contacts to an absolute minimum! Meeting You don't have to meet anyone anymore! Stay at home if it's possible! Especially now it is so necessary that we look at each other so that we protect ourselves, and above all also our fellow human beings, that we not only protect our older fellow citizens in this difficult time, but also provide them not only by themselves, because many are now afraid to be alone. It is important to be with them and care for them when it comes to purchases, pharmacies, and even when it comes to walking with the dog of these people. These are concerns and fears that many older people have. We, ladies and gentlemen, must act together when it comes to combating the social and economic consequences of this crisis. What it needs is a shield; it needs a protective shield for the workplace and a protective shield for businesses. The 4 billion euros made available by the government are a first step, but from our point of view it needs more, it needs more for small and medium-sized enterprises. Let us not forget the micro-enterprises, the entrepreneurs and their employees. Nor do we forget the art and culture creators of this country. We carry the package, but our group firmly believes that solidarity is needed for everyone in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Solidarity for all: Especially in a crisis, it is necessary and important for us not to – nobody! – leave behind in Austria: Women who have to care for relatives and are now emotionally double-loaded; Single parents who are required to take care of their children all day long now, but are afraid to lose their jobs, on which their existence and their children depend; Hairdressers, hairdressers, hairdressers, hairdressers, hairdressers, Coffee house owners – all have to be sure of our help during this difficult time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, forget You do not call on all these people and all of us in Parliament to give confidence and security to these people in this difficult time. The situation is serious. I mentioned Italy at the beginning and I would like to end up coming back to Italy. I would like to make an urgent appeal to all those responsible for government in our country, whether in the federal or in the countries: We must learn from the experiences of Italy. We need to take advantage of the time, the little time that remains for us, before the number of cases increases even more extreme and thus, above all, the number of serious diseases and deaths will also rise significantly here. This will be a real stress test for our hospitals, for our health system, and for this stress test we must all be prepared. There's no time to lose. It is urgently necessary to upgrade the hospitals throughout Austria: with breathing equipment, adequate protective equipment, but also through targeted training for the entire hospital staff, not only in three, four weeks, but now, and that in all hospitals. It is important to prevent doctors and nurses from becoming infected and subsequently fail. That would be more than fatal in this situation. This happened in Italy, ladies and gentlemen. At this point, I would like to thank all those who are fighting the front line against the virus: the nurses, the doctors and doctors, the staff, but also the people in research who are on the verge of finding a substance, and all those who in these difficult days ensure our basic supply in the supermarket, in pharmacies and in public transport. Thank you all! They are the heroes of our time, as Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor have said. [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The next few weeks, probably the next few months, will be hard, very hard for all of us. The Federal Government is in charge, but also the social democracy as the largest opposition party in this country takes responsibility at this difficult time, because the protection of our health and the protection of our lives require a common effort, a pooling of all forces. I wish us all strength, I wish us all health for determined, successful and solidarity. It's about very, very much! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1497	Klubobmann Kickl is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1518	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! But above all: dear Austrians! The term Corona stands for all of us, whether we want it or not, for things like uncertainty, uncertainty, abandonment, danger, suffering, pain and death. No matter where we are employed, no matter where in this beautiful country of Austria we live, no matter what age we have, no matter what gender we have, he has drawn us all in one way or another into his very, very negative spell. Now we are facing a huge task. This task is to break through this negative spell, to strip it off. This requires a great common effort. We must make sure that we associate Corona with very different things, that we associate Corona with confidence, with confidence, with success in dealing with a great task, with cohesion, with protection and help and ultimately, I would like to say, with a victory of optimism, that reason in combination with an indestructible will. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the big one. This is the great community that each one of us can feel and experience in our country, everywhere in the population, no matter where you look. This is also the joint link between all the parties in this House, whether they are government parties or opposition parties. Let's not forget. Today is the first day on which this Parliament takes actual decisions in the fight against the virus. We have jointly – and this has already been mentioned – found a way to enable this meeting within a very short time, and we have jointly agreed to reduce the process of legislation to an absolute minimum, simply because we all know together that time is the crucial factor. Time is the crucial factor in the fight for health and for the lives of the particularly vulnerable group, the parent and grandparents generation that this country has built up. Time is also the crucial factor when it comes to preventing, as far as possible, negative effects on workers, the EPUs, the self-employed and businesses, whether for small or large. All of this is an expression of this great national epaulment, which we need and to which we, as the Freedom Party, also make our contribution. We will therefore agree to the support package for the Austrian economy of EUR 4 billion, and we will support the present measures, which will contribute to a rapid reduction of the new infections. Ladies and gentlemen! For us, Corona is all the absolute new country, for all of us alike, in Austria, in Europe and worldwide. If you enter such a new land or if the state ship is stranded on the coast of such a new land, no one can claim to know from the outset only the best, the fastest and the safest way through all the possible dangers and about all the possible obstacles that may arise in this way. To use that in itself would be measured. But what all those who want to cross this new country without unnecessary loss and suffering without unnecessary suffering must claim for themselves is to contribute to the finding of the best way to the decision-making of the entire team, whether it be knowledge or experience from comparisons with other areas, whether it be feeling, intuition or some of the instincts it needs to survive. That is exactly what we have done in recent weeks, ladies and gentlemen, when, for example, we have proposed a rapid and comprehensive closure of all our national borders as an effective safeguard measure, because there are good reasons for this. In the same way, in our view, there are good reasons to be determined to set up a whole package of measures and not to lose valuable time through a tactic of the point-by-point. Let's not forget. Time is the crucial factor. We have made these proposals, even though the government sees some as different. That is exactly what this effort to the best, to the most secure, to the fastest and most comprehensive way to protect the health of people, the life, the economy and the workplace, we have also demonstrated about the state of this package, which is being launched today. Ladies and gentlemen! We are convinced that it is only fair, in addition to the large companies that will now benefit disproportionately from this package, to give full support to the small and the micro-enterprises, the EPUs. We are convinced that it is fair to provide the economic sufferers of the bans with a right to fully compensate for their damage. This package is missing. We are convinced that it is necessary not only to take over a third, but to make the entire payment by the state. We are convinced that it already needs far more than the 4 billion euros that are being set up today, simply because the time as the determining factor pushes so much and because in other cases of crisis – I mention the banking crisis – we have seen that it is possible to set up 100 billion euros within a few days. Ladies and gentlemen! To this and much more, we have a lot of freedom. We are now doing this in the form of requests which are still being made in the context of this debate, just as we have done before. Today, the government parties will reject each one of these liberal proposals as false, just as they have rejected our actions in the past. Nevertheless, we will go along with and support the other way they have proposed, simply because we have to move forward in this great end of the shoulder, which I have addressed, because we have to cross this gloomy and dangerous coronaneuland and leave it behind us. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Unfortunately, there is no withdrawal. In life, there is not often the situation that it is difficult or actually impossible to say from the outset: What's right, what's wrong? What's good, and what's better? – This knowledge can only be gained if one sees whether the path taken will actually fulfil the purpose he is to fulfill. I wish all of us that the measures adopted today are sufficient and that they are fast enough to protect the health of vulnerable people and to preserve the system of economics and jobs alive. Because today I heard again from a resurrection to Easter: Well, we have to die first, and that's what I don't want. We do not want to die and be dead to rise again, but we want to live and live on. That must be the goal of our great effort. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Finally, I just want to express the desire that all our hopes we put into this package may be fulfilled. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Austrian people, whom I know she has great understanding of the necessary measures that she is prepared to give up and sacrifice. We owe her – vice versa – to great gratitude, because the Austrians, whether they go into domestic quarantines or whether they are police officers, in the supermarket or elsewhere where they have a position in these difficult times, are the heroes of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1576	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1597	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens at home! I hope you're home. I ask you: Stay home! The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will only be in this Chamber today, which will actually make speeches. We're actually 183. We're sitting here at intervals today. Of course, we are all following the session, but for good reason, the votes on this day will be blocked at the end of the session, so that we too can ensure that the risk of infection remains as low as possible. We have a responsibility here, we also have a model effect here. As politicians, we are responsible for protecting the inhabitants of our country, ensuring that they are well cared for, that they have work, that they are healthy, and that they remain healthy. It is also our responsibility as politicians to ensure that the weakest in our society, those who have the worst conditions, are protected in particular that they are picked up, that they are particularly supported. In the case of Corona, the worst conditions are those that are over 65 years old, those who have prediseases, but also those who will feel the economic impact of this massive crisis most clearly: These are smaller companies, micro-enterprises, individual companies, many artists whose events were cancelled, that is the individual graphic artist who sits at the end of the chain because she produces the flyers and the layouts. We can't leave anyone behind, we have to help everyone. We decide today at this meeting to take immediate action to ensure that risk groups are best protected and supported, ensuring that our economy does not collapse, which will ensure that people can keep their jobs. Today, we create a legal basis for the fact that the business and the locals – apart from the business that is necessary for daily supply – can remain closed. We create a legal basis for the Minister of Health to ensure that as few social contacts as possible can be done by means of a regulation. We know that reducing social contacts by 25 percent reduces the risk of infection by 50 percent. I'd say, 25 percent are too few. We should reduce them even more. The situation is serious. We must all work to ensure that the risk of infection is as small as possible not only for ourselves but for the others we come into contact with. We ensure that in the evenings not thousands of people sit in bars and restaurants and spread the virus. At this point I would like to make an urgent appeal to the students of this country. Yesterday the bars had been open, there were a lot of people there. There are a lot of housing communities in Austria. I would like to expressly ask: Guys, don't come to the stupid idea of holding WG parties because nothing else is open! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] This is totally irresponsible to your fellow Members, to older people, but also to you yourself. It is not true that young people automatically have a much milder course in a coronavirus infection. There are also cases of severe history despite very young age and although there are no prediseases. Today, with the 4-billion euro fund, we are taking a first step towards economic suspension. We decide on a short-term model to ensure that people will not lose their jobs despite this extreme challenge. We decide on the partial payment of special leave for those who need to care for their children. We must ensure that the many small companies in our country do not break this crisis. We will allow payments to be made to social security and to the financial office. We'll make bridge credit possible. We will have to create funds for cases of hardship in order to reduce the consequences for the people concerned. Never has a law been passed here in this House at such a speed. It is a completely extraordinary situation that we are deciding in meetings yesterday and today laws that will enter into force tomorrow. . Thank you to all the political groups in the House who are involved and involved and who are also involved in these measures. I know it's a big challenge. The laws have been written overnight, there have still been amendments to this day that are necessary. I thank you for your understanding and also for your cooperation. We will also include certain points from your requests. The laws get better when several people look over them, definitely. I would like to ask all spectators: Be solid! Stay home if you don't have to! But also help old people, the neighbor who doesn't have anyone who cares about her while shopping, so that she doesn't have to put herself at risk of infection! Help each other with childcare if possible! Corona will accelerate our lives in the next few weeks, and this too will be an interesting experience for the country. Read a good book! Do the Things in the apartment you've been pushing for ages! I have this for my part, it's enough around. Please don't go into crowd anymore! Stay at home to keep you healthy, and above all, so you won't be a danger to others! I would also like to thank people who have not yet been thanked. Of course, our thanks also apply to the entire medical staff, the police, all the people who make sure that our daily life remains secure. Groups of people who have not yet been mentioned are the cleaning forces and the waste disposal. They also ensure that we can live well in this extremely challenging situation and that the framework conditions are given for a safe life. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on Greens, ÖVP and NEOS.]] The next few weeks will inevitably be a huge challenge. We need all of our joint effort, all of our common contributions. I am convinced that this crisis will make us stronger and will bring us closer together, even though social Distancing has now been announced, at least in solidarity and in the fight against this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1675	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1697	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home! Dear media representatives who are gratefully here today! Today is an extraordinary day for the High House. I think we all wish that this day would not be necessary in this form, but I would also like to say at this point: I am glad about it, and I think it is right that the legislative body, the people's representation of this Republic, of our Republic of Austria, is operational and shows this ability to act today. I have already said clearly in recent days that this is a phase that requires enormous responsibility and, above all, self-responsibility – personal responsibility of every individual, of every individual, but also responsibility for each other: looking at each other, being cautious and going this way, but at a distance. People take responsibility for other people. Of course - it has been said many times - it is particularly about the people who fall into the risk group. These are elderly people, those are people with cardiovascular disease, with increased blood pressure, with diabetes. These are all risk factors that are very widespread in the population, as you know. This look-up and together-through-this-crisis-goes, for example, when children go shopping for the elderly and hang the Sackerl on the door, is therefore something whole, quite necessary. I would also like to express my thanks at this point – I hope that I do not forget a group now, there have already been so many groups – especially the people in medical professions, doctors, doctors, nurses, even officials who have worked so much in the last few hours, the people who work in the supermarkets. I saw on Saturday the pearls of the ladies and gentlemen – many ladies – on the cassava and the empty shelves that reminded us of times that we thank God even have not experienced it. Thank you to the police, to all those who are now caring in some form for the maintenance of the Republic, though in a downturned form. I would like to thank the media very much, especially those media – I would like to expressly mention public-law broadcasting – which, with a lot of care and care, go through this phase and offer truly comprehensive information. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with NEOS, ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] I have also said that there is now a need for a national epaulment regarding these urgent and very serious and incisive measures. That's how I see it. We have to stick together. And I also said clearly, already on Wednesday, that the government in us NEOS has a reliable partner here to set up these incisive measures and this shoulder closure. There's nothing small about this. In the next few days and weeks, it is about limiting the personal freedom of people, including businesses, entrepreneurs, children to an extent that we have never experienced God in our lifetimes. You know that, as a political group, which is so important to freedom, we do not easily carry out measures that are designed to cut these freedoms so gravely. But we believe it's right, it's important and it's certainly not too early in the whole. But we also give a great deal of power and therefore also responsibility in the hands of the government. You know, we have been committed to making it clear at least today that this special law is not going to continue for all eternity, but has an end date. If we insist on it, we will have to look at it again by the end of the year, then we will be able to take appropriate measures. But I think this is important as a signal: The rulers, who now get so much power from the law-making body, have to deal with it damnally because it is about very many fundamental and freedom rights. But now we also have to – and now there is something where I am giving feedback – to ensure clarity and security, clarity and security, especially for those concerned. I would like to point out that many people say that this salami tactics, one makes another incisive action every day, is understandable, because people also get used to it, or one sees that they do not stick to it – as we have seen in the pictures – or have not understood what that means when they go shopping in masses or celebrate parties – then we see that you have to do something – but that does not create this security and clarity that is necessary. Clearness also means that as a sports centre, as a business, as a restaurant or as a hairdresser, you get immediately reliable information: What does that mean to me now? I can tell you that the telephones are running hot with us, there are also questions from people who would expect this information from the government, but also from the Chamber of Commerce, where, to date, nothing has yet to come. So do not take this as a criticism, but as a constructive feedback, but there goes even more, ladies and gentlemen, dear. The economic impact will be massive. I would have written a guest comment tomorrow, warning of a review. I will consider how I formulate this, because I believe we can see that it is going to be very hard times economically. Who has been on the road in the last days – my club director has told me – knows: You'll be in the snake in which you're in Supermarket is forced to witness how people are being canceled by telephone – not scarcely, not scarcely! So what has landed in the last few days on calls or on letters from bosses to the people, from waiters, from gastronomy workers, from hotel industry, but also from retail trade, from hairdressers, this is dramatic. I probably don't need to say that to you or hopefully not. We all know the victims. That must be perfectly clear to us. Health comes first, but now we also need to look at the economic future. There is one thing for us quite clearly – even if this is a sign and of course we carry it; I would also like to say here that we carry it –: These 4 billion euros are a lot, far too little. I think we need another way here, even in order to create safety and clarity for the businesses, from the larger and medium-sized enterprises to the EPCs, to the small farms, which sometimes have such a low level of equity that they tell me that within a week, at the latest, within two weeks – these are well placed enterprises – it is not possible anymore – it is no longer possible! These are days that now decide on existence, ultimately also those of workers. That is, our proposal is – and we will bring it in today – as follows: Let us go the way from Germany and make a clear commitment to an unlimited acceptance of liability and guarantees for liquidity! Economics now also needs confidence, workers need confidence, and that would be a strong signal I have missed so far. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] SMEs, EPUs, who are at the limit of their existence – and perhaps they are already over it in a week; therefore: immediate automatic payment of taxes, taxes and social security contributions – our proposal would be: for four months – and one should not have to apply for it, but it should be automatically that way. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] I think it's really time for the state to say – because zero deficit, I think we don't have to ask the question anymore – that it's now time – that's quite clear from our side – to take money into its hands, and I honestly tell you, whatever it takes, whatever it will be necessary. [[towards Vice-chanc Kogler]] In any event, this is Germany's access, and I can tell you that this will also be the ECB's access in the next few weeks. Therefore: Tax, taxes and social security contributions automatically hours and then only in certain steps make repayable. It really needs maximum security and – this is important to me too, because I know that a lot is also decided by the Minister of Finance on the way of the regulation – please minimal bureaucracy. You can't believe the small businesses are going to experience a redundancie now, where you can apply for funding somewhere, at three or four different places – a job, unbureaucratic, fast guarantees and liabilities, and put off the taxes and social security contributions now! [[He welcomed NEOS and SPÖ, as well as representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My colleague Schellhorn will then address this further, of course there is also a very urgent appeal from our side to do something in the insolvency law so that we can do something about it that managing directors don't have to get into liability issues immediately and apply for insolvency immediately. I would like to give you a view which, as far as possible, should be positive: There was a time – not too long ago at all – here we have NEOS, which is reasonable and Science and education are very important, quite a lot of fights against promises of salvation, superstitions and also against those who have said: Don't listen to experts, don't listen to elites!, et cetera, fought. – I am so grateful that we have so great scientists, researchers and researchers worldwide and especially in Austria, who are now working on high-tours to get medicines that have the worst impact on Covid, or who may even develop a protective vaccination. Those who have read interviews in the last few days know that it has never happened so quickly, even thanks – you have to say – to a very careful approach by the WHO, because after the last Ebola crisis, building block systems were created. Trust in science and research needs support from us all over the world, and in the fight against superstitions and fakenews I also demand an shoulder closure. I look forward to the fact that, as a human being, as we have done so many times, we are going to deal with this crisis. It'll be hard. I say to you that everyone and everyone in any form of it will be directly or indirectly affected, but we will march through what we can, based on science, and hopefully at some point we will also be strengthened. Look at you and look at each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1821	Federal Minister Anschober has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1842	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people living in this beautiful land! Economy is important, but the most important thing is health! – I think we have heard this sentence many times, but for decades it has not been as correct and as important as in this situation and in these hours. It has actually happened: From a regional epidemic has been a global pandemic in recent days: 156,000 people worldwide, now over 5,800 deaths worldwide. Europe is now in the epicenter of growth. In the next few months, our life will have to change dramatically so that we can actually starve the virus. What is it like in Europe? – The worst situation still exists in Italy, with more than 21,000 diseases, with more than 1 440 deaths, and every day it becomes more. There is a similar dramatic development in Spain, a bad development in Switzerland, dramatic increases in France, Germany and also in Austria. We cannot put this country under a fall in glass, we can only put in place the measures that are important and right. To the figures – just to show how the development is –: On Wednesday in the morning we were in Austria at 206 diseases, on Thursday this week at 302, on Friday at 428, on Saturday at 602 and today, Sunday in the morning, at 800. - We can stop that, I'm convinced. We can handle these increases. It is in our hand, in our all hands, and in our common responsibility that we manage to starve this virus. Now everyone and everyone is asked and demanded. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] There are two key strategies and areas. One is social contacts. It has already been said that we are now talking about solidarity with the particularly vulnerable. This is the moment of solidarity, in this situation also of the disciples with the older ones, who are now healthy with those who may have already been sick. - That's the first point. It's very important, but it's also important: It is about protecting the hospitals so that they are fit for the great demand that will come to them in the next few weeks. That's why we've committed a ban on visitors so that we don't drag the virus in. We have also agreed that medical treatments that are not strictly necessary will be postponed so that we have the necessary resources. There are currently 800 diseases in Austria: With ten people, intensive treatment is currently required, 98 are in the hospital, and most – and that is also encouraging – 85 percent, can be maintained at home and wait for them to get healthy. – From this point on, I say to all those who are already affected: Good health and good recovery! I am deeply convinced that if we all stick together in this situation, if we all now contribute with commitment, with solidarity, with a real cohesion that must and will exist in this country, then we can create it, then we can actually cope with this serious crisis. - Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1894	Minister Nehammer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1915	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, who are now following this meeting! The cooperation between the Ministry of Health, the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of the Interior, the other important ministries affected by the respective challenges, and the federal states runs intensively, well and trustingly. The police themselves, the police who are currently serving, feel obliged to protect, help and, if necessary, secure a motto. Allow me, as an interior minister, to serve the police who are now in service, who are preparing for the next service, who are now at the borders, as well as in monitoring the quarantine measures in Carinthia and Tyrol, a great thanks for their commitment, for their sensible action and, above all, for the willingness to always be there when it comes to helping citizens! [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] The Federal Government has made it clear from the outset that the development in relation to the corona virus is ongoing. Since the situation in neighbouring countries has unfortunately developed very dynamically – if you look at Italy: dramatically – and since there is now a very dynamic development in Austria too, it is necessary to put in place incisive measures to counteract the spread of the virus. We do everything, as a security ministry, so that security and order in the Republic can continue to be maintained even in demanding times. I thank the Minister for Defence for the excellent cooperation. The Federal Army is the strategic reserve of the Republic, and already in use as part of many assistance services, such as the support of telephone hotlines to give people security when they need information. More than 3,000 soldiers are available for further assistance. In addition, we are so far in the planning of the police that we can guarantee multi-month sustainability in conjunction with all departments, all police inspections, and also schools; in order to clarify to the Austrians: Your safety is provided 24 hours, seven days a week. It is crucial – and this is important to me now – that: Security cannot alone create police, federal army and civil service, which is also there to do enough to ensure social security, but we need to work together, a cohesion of the population; we need the cooperation of the Austrians. Because it often sounds so technical, if it means reducing social contacts, I would like to make it clear to my example: Both my parents and my parents-in-law are great grandparents, who make a significant contribution to our family support and family life. But now it is our job to protect them, to limit their contact, to stop meeting, because each of us – including in my family – has the power to contribute to the fact that they do not infect. We can do all of this. We are all invited to communicate this also to the population, to implement it together as Austrians – as a team of Austria, as the Federal Chancellor has called it. We have a chance. Let us take the fight against the virus by means of cohesion in society, by mutual trust and above all by actually disciplining ourselves and restricting the social contacts together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1966	Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e1988	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! Dear Austrians! We are in fact in a very dramatic situation. Mr Bundeskanzler and also individual members of the government were very intrusive about the situation. Of course, such a dramatic situation also requires drastic measures, measures which we have not known so far in this dimension and intensity, but they are necessary in order to control the spread of this new virus, that is, as has already been said, to reduce Austria to an emergency operation. There are now a number of bans, and of course we are calling for all of them to be fully respected. But there are also a number of appeals, recommendations, regarding which of us all in Austria, no matter what activity we carry on, where we have responsibility, simply and simply reason decisions need. Everyone and everyone has the utmost caution to decide what he/she is doing in his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her environment. There are, of course, groups that are particularly required; medical staff, nursing staff, rescue services, security forces, in the broadest sense employees who ensure the supply and supply chains to only a few. However, almost everyone and everyone in the population is required in any way. However, companies, entrepreneurs and their employees are also particularly required. You cannot imagine what is happening at the moment at the Infopoints in the various Chambers of Commerce, with us in the WKÖ, in the state chambers, in the district offices, but there are also thousands of telephone calls from entrepreneurs at the hotline. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, in this context it was really impossible to accuse us, the Chamber, or the government here, of not being informed. Our employees have not deserved this, they do enormous things, they provide incredible advice. [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Now stop being so offended! ... how many have called me?! It's ridiculous!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I'll tell you one thing: In this situation, in which new instructions are given every day, of course, each instruction also creates a number of questions – that is logical – and of course they also need to be answered and clarified and cannot always be answered ad hocly. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Do you know what? ...! Already very relieved that... talk to businesses!]] Entrepreneurs are accustomed to solving problems directly and together with their own employees and employees in as many cases as possible. At the end of the day, it is about their livelihood, about their jobs, and it is often about life activities that are at risk of entrepreneurs, but also about employees. Let's not forget. The economy is the basis of all our outcome! That means that it is now necessary to secure this – of course also for the post-crisis period. All that is now being threatened or destroyed by economic structures is missing after the crisis for the development of economic performance and prosperity. That is, we have everything to do to keep our businesses, our economic structures not only, we have to protect them, we have to support them, and all of this serves this lifeguard with a volume of 4 billion euros that we decide on today. And yes, I also assume that if this increases as exponentially as it is currently apparent, further measures, beyond these 4 billion euros, will be necessary. What is it about right now? – It is about liquidity in companies. Here we try to help with credit guarantees – via the AWS, via the EHT – with direct loans, with support from taxes and charges. It needs direct aid, especially for small and small enterprises, but not only. There will also be two funds for this: for individuals, for small and small enterprises, for family businesses; and I would also like to say to you: Yes, the Chamber of Commerce will also use its reserves or some of them to financially control this particularly concerned group of entrepreneurs in the coming weeks. It is currently simple and simple to do the right thing. There will have to be a number of other measures that we do not know today, because we can only try to estimate development, but, of course, do not know what the dimension will be. Faith But you, ladies and gentlemen: This will be done to the extent necessary, and you can rely on it, because, of course, it is for people at the end of the day that their jobs will also be maintained – what we do with short work, with suspension and re-establishment agreements. I would also like to express my express thanks to the social partners, the trade union and the Chamber of Labour. Two days ago, we were able to agree to a very attractive short-term work arrangement together in hours of discussions, so that the government can also ensure the necessary funding so that as many employees as possible can keep their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Dear entrepreneurs, dear entrepreneurs! Dear employees, dear employees in the businesses! It's hard for all of you. It is to be feared that it can become even harder. We help with this shield, I believe, very extensive and urgent – I have already said it will not be the last – and believe You're telling me: The political leaders of this country and also the social partners are now aware of their responsibilities and their particular role. They assume this responsibility. We stand at your side in these difficult hours, and I assume – believe me and be confident of each other! –: We'll do this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2045	Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2067	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, watch now! In difficult times, a principle applies: Solidarity for all. No one can stay on the track. Everyone and anyone who needs help or help must be helped. As an Austrian social democracy, we see this 4-billion-euro package as the first step that needs to be taken, but it will not be enough for us. There are people who, due to the justified measures now being taken, are alone at the latest from tomorrow, who will no longer know from tomorrow on how to proceed, who may have the first feeling in their lives, all that they have built up, will now come together: the hairdresser who has built up her salon alone, who no longer knows how to pay the rent and the operating costs and pay back a loan; the flower dealer who has just ordered, delivered and paid for her ostollection, but can not sell it now; or the photographer who suddenly has no weddings, no school classes to photograph what his main business was; the relatives who are suddenly overwhelmed with the care situation and who have no help; the parents, the profession and childcare must put themselves under a hat and struggle. They all need help, ladies and gentlemen - fast, fast, absolutely now help! There's no phone number yet that they can call. They too need a telephone number to tell them quickly what to do. - That's the one group. The other group are those who keep our country alive, who secure the farm: the nurses, the doctors, the people who work in the food trade, who are incredibly demanded by the police, yes, and all those who work for our There is a need to take care of the situation and to expose itself, such as the train attendants who continue to have to control the tickets, the people who clean the trains, the aircraft still flying. – All these people now need our help and support, must be protected, ladies and gentlemen. These are the people who keep our country running! We have therefore decided to supplement the Federal Government's proposal with a separate proposal, which I would like to put forward here, namely the amendment tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues and colleagues, on the report from the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 369/A by Mrs Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President. The aim of this proposal is to ensure that, first of all, these genuinely strict measures are taken on a democratic basis and that this House, the Budget Committee is regularly reported on what is happening there; secondly, that everything to be provided with aid, can be organised unbureaucratically through the financial offices, so that it goes quickly; thirdly, that the Epidemic Act for micro-enterprises who need such support is not suspended; and fourthly, there are special care periods for members who either need to look at their children or their families, ladies and gentlemen. There is a group of people in our country for which it is currently particularly hard. I made a phone call yesterday with my grandmother, who now had a round birthday. There's no party now, she's all alone at home, because you have to be careful with the visits. In Austria there are many such people: People who are old, who are alone and who are afraid. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let us take care of these people together! Let's try to make sure they're not afraid! Let's try to make sure they don't feel completely alone! This is a common task that all of us can fulfil in order to achieve. Look at you staying healthy! Look at all of us taking care of all of us! - Thank you. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hoefinger and Mr Prinz.]] [[10:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2254	Ladies and gentlemen! This application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2278	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We have an epidemic law, which offers numerous advantages for the needy entrepreneurs: On the one hand, the needy entrepreneurs have a right to financial assistance, and on the other hand, there is no amount of financial aid. Furthermore, according to the Epidemic Act There is no inequality in treatment between large entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises. However, instead of novelizing the Epidemic Act, the Federal Government has decided to set up a crisis management fund with numerous disadvantages. First: There is no legal right to financial assistance. Secondly, We have a budget of 4 billion euros, which, as we know, will not be enough at Weitem. And last but not least: There is no financial equal treatment between large and small enterprises. Individual companies, micro- and micro-enterprises, are massively disadvantaged by this draft law. I therefore propose an amendment which eliminates the just mentioned disadvantages of the COVID-19 law and doubles the donation of the crisis management fund to 8 billion euros. This amendment, which has already been distributed, ensures that individuals and micro-enterprises are not financially disadvantaged in this crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to point out another point: It's probably obvious that everyone – everyone! – Companies in Austria will suffer from this crisis of massive sales losses and therefore income tax and corporate tax prepayments to the extent required so far are far too high. In an information distributed yesterday to the Chamber of Tax Advisors and Auditors, the Minister of Finance noted that applications submitted by entrepreneurs for the reduction of income tax or corporate tax prepayments are being treated favourably. There's even a pattern application. - This is a bureaucratic crazy! Of course, there are thousands of applications by the companies that cause senseless costs and, of course, the authority has no meaning; the financial offices are granted Zig thousands of applications. There is no need for an application, but there needs to be an ex-legislative solution, which means automatic adjustment or removal of income tax or corporation tax prepayment. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bernhard.]] We will also make an appropriate request in this regard later on. All the important measures we are taking today must ensure that we do not send entrepreneurs to a bureaucrat irana. Entrepreneurs, especially individuals, small and micro-enterprises, need an unbureaucratic emergency aid, without if and but! Maintaining liquidity must be ensured, and every entrepreneur must know by tomorrow how to help and what to do. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2500	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2524	Mr President. Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! How can we prevent the current corona crisis from becoming an economic and social crisis that threatens to surpass those of 2008? How can we ensure that fears are taken that incomes are secured in a situation that is a completely new one for all those involved, which has never been there and in which there is no normality anymore, because it is simply no longer normal times? How can we counter social and economic consequences of the crisis in such a way that, when the crisis is over, there is a re-start and a restart and, indeed, sufficient prospects so that we gain sustainable normality? That is why we are here today, which is why we are deciding today on a 4-billion-euro package, with which a first – I emphasize this and there are many previous speakers quite right – has been taken step by step in order to meet the economic and social challenges arising from the crisis. Yes, it will need more money, yes, it is not perfect for Weitem and it must also be concreteized, but it is what we think is needed at the moment – now, because workers are being canceled or before termination, because self-employed cultural workers do not know how to secure their existence, and because the least know how it actually goes on. This crisis is not an abstract one, as no banks are saved, but it is very concrete because it concerns living conditions. In this context, I would like to stress the important and central role of the social partners, trade unions, the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce in the preparation of the measures and to thank me very much for them. I think it was particularly important that the representations, the representations of interests of those affected by this crisis, sit at the table and work together with the government to develop the appropriate solutions. A solution that I particularly like and which I think is particularly successful is undoubtedly the short-term work solution mentioned above. I think that this solution – also with the possibility of reducing working time to 0 per cent and thus maintaining the employment relationship, while at the same time setting the minimum incomes in such a way that their income remains largely preserved – is precise in this situation in which we are currently very successful, is useful to businesses and benefits employees. EUR 400 million is currently available for this short work. For comparison only: This is almost twice as much as during the 2008/2009 crisis. With this regulation, there is indeed the hope that we can maintain employment, income and also prospects for workers and for businesses. Yes, first steps have been taken, more still need to be made. Much has already been thanked to workers, to employees, to the companies currently in the process of ensuring and ensuring the supply. In the crisis, it is very often recognized that true performance providers in our society, regardless of citizenship, of origin, of gender – in this case they are women in particular – do their job. To conclude: We can be glad that we have well-functioning public and social institutions. We can be glad that we have received some flexibility in the area of budgetary policy, which now allows us to react quickly. We can be glad that we have institutions such as trade unions and chambers, which workers and businesses currently support with help, advice, action, advice and support and with the concrete resolution of the crisis. This is not a matter of course. We should remember that after the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2572	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2594	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! Many organizations, many people, including those sitting at the supermarket, have been thanked today. Also – I said it yesterday – the government deserves respect and thanks, for acting quickly in these days and quickly getting a package on the way; that is what you have to say. You're under pressure, you have to do something. This is a first step, the right path. Only – and I would like to say that quite honestly here –: When it comes to a business package, you have a patient with serious symptoms, and you treat it with aspirin. I want to make an account for you – I said that yesterday in the Financial Committee, just so that the audiences can understand it at home and the entrepreneurs also: For a single entrepreneur like me, 4 billion euros are, of course, a batch of money. However, if we have a GDP of 400 billion euros, of which 1 per cent are available to entrepreneurs – for short-time work, because this is very important to us, and this must also be stressed so that we can keep employees in our businesses – i.e., provide 4 billion euros and start from six working days – 4 billion euros for the whole year with a GDP of 400 billion euros – then we come to a factor of 1.27 billion euros in value added per working day. If we assume that the service sector – and this has been proven – contributes 70 percent to GDP and that 50 percent of these 70 percent are now being shut down, then 35 percent remain. Then we have 400 million. You spent EUR 400 million in nine days. You are now buying time to cut down the next sausage in salami tactics, as Mr Kickl has rightly said. That is what we feel is too little in all of those measures you are taking and which are also right. Germany has provided EUR 555 billion, Germany has said: Whatever it takes! And if we take the factor ten, we will not get around that we land at 40,50 billion euros. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] It now applies – even in this inconsistency, because the Minister of Finance has rightly said that he is not bringing together a budget that we have an exceptional situation: We need extraordinary measures and exceptional answers. In other words, this planning is not at all feasible – for you not – only the entrepreneurs do not get along with this inconsistency, because this lockdown is now only intended for a week. First of all, we have heard from the Federal Chancellor that after Easter everything is hopefully going on again. So this means that the entrepreneurs with their employees now have a gap of three weeks. That's a huge challenge. Great respect for this form of short work, great respect for the social partners too, that they have achieved this together so quickly, and also for – I said this yesterday to Mrs Schramböck – the 48-hour rule. Beate Meinl-Reisinger said quite right: We need more security and less bureaucracy. I would now like to give you an example of bureaucracy. What will happen at the AMS tomorrow? – Madam Minister, you have probably given the order to allow home office. How does it work that so many entrepreneurs bring in their short-term job applications if no one is in the office anyway? Where do they do that? How does that happen? . We have a big problem with bureaucracy, and Mr Fuchs has addressed it quite correctly: We need something else. We need a moratorium with much less bureaucracy and much higher security, much higher performance. This must happen immediately unbureaucratically. As an entrepreneur, I also ask myself this question – and yesterday I had a lot of entrepreneurs on the phone who do not know that – how this works on Monday, because no one is in the office, because perhaps everyone in the home office is at home. They need security now. I can only tell you one thing: We are concerned with the employees. If we release them now, we have a problem after that. We are concerned that we are going through this crisis as soon as possible and we are getting up again as soon as possible. To do this we need our employees, it is necessary that they are also in safety. But what you're proposing now is, so to speak, to swallow aspirin and say to the patient: It's gonna be okay, you don't have to worry! . We now need a moratorium, an annuity moratorium that concerns liquidity. In my company I have the problem that in February in winter tourism it has made a lot of sales. That is to say, in the current state of play, when it comes to the prepayment of turnover tax – Mr Fuchs knows that for sure – and for all social charges, because we then unsubscribe them, we gather in a business of EUR 5 300 000. That weakens my liquidity. When it comes to helping family businesses and EPUs by means of a fund: Well, how is this fund being built up bureaucratically, from which perhaps only in August is fed? – If we talk about insolvency, for example, if I see, so to speak, that this is going to crack and I only have three weeks until I can report an insolvency: There needs to be a change in insolvency law. I have to try to save the operation, I have to try to save the operation by means of liquidity. In other words, you are asked to ensure in a moratorium that we have 50 billion euros to protect the entrepreneurs, the individual companies. That's why I want to take care of ourselves so that we can employ our employees so that this doesn't become a spiral. Especially in tourism, it will become a spiral because investment is to be suspended in autumn. All bureaucratic obstacles must be removed. At the OECT one still has to go for this 100 million euro pot, the They made available last week – a salami disk – predicting their sales up to 31 December. Who can do that? – You can’t even do that, Minister of Finance! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is, bureaucracy is built up, but the bureaucracy should go exactly the opposite way. I ask you: Go with us! They offered the shoulder closure. Let us go with our motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is exactly what – also with regard to social security contributions – the EPUs are now burdening. They don't know how to pay in advance for the next quarter. What exactly burdens these entrepreneurs is that if they now have a delay in paying their social security contributions, then they may be able to pay all the pieces when it comes back in July or August. This is just as a liquidity weakness. We also need longer periods of time to be able to reduce these residues. I would ask you to go this way with us in a joint shoulder closure and to vote in favour of this request. Thank you. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] [[11:08]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2808	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, you are next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2840	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Especially dear Austrians! They are all, as our Federal Chancellor has said, in the team Austria. However, they are all in the team of life rescuers, just as the Federal Repatriation Commander of the Red Cross, Gerry Foitik, has said, like all those who work in the health field, like all educators, who are looking to see that children who cannot be accommodated elsewhere from tomorrow can be in schools, like all those who work on post offices, all who maintain the infrastructure, as well as cleaning staff. All these people are important, but you, each one of you and every one of you, are equally important when it comes to the fact that what we recommend to you, the measures we put in place, are actually being respected. Keep Please, you're at home! My mother will be 80 this year and like all of us here in the hall of course I also come together with very, very many people. My sister is a staff member and, of course, like her colleagues at the office, she must continue to prove births and deaths. We both came across our mother's mind when we said: You, Mutti, you can't do that now. We just don't come, we're calling, we're chatting. Don't send your children to their grandmothers and grandpas! Please note You're taking these measures. We have a chance to reduce the course. This is our great opportunity to gain time to maintain health care. Many communities have already done so: They offer shopping opportunities, they offer the opportunity to supply medications. I would like to thank the Chamber of Doctors and the Austrian Health Fund for the fact that this has gone so unbureaucratic. There are faxed recipes, the medications are brought, the recipe fees are eventually collected by the communities. These are important measures that concern our very personal life and our very personal security. I really want to thank all the media at this point too, to report the facts, especially at the ORF, which has installed the initiative “Look at you, look at me!” in the cooperation with the Federal Government. These are measures to draw attention to the importance – but please only with facts which are officially communicated by the Federal Government and are correct. Today, the Med-Uni Wien has already clarified many things. Faith You just ask for facts that we communicate. Don't be unsure, but stay there, stay informed! The Federal Government will keep you really up-to-date about the current measures. Trust the experts, trust the crisis staff! I am convinced that we can all deal with this crisis together – if you are at home all heroes. I wish you all the best, and stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2881	The next item is the speech by Mr Josef Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2905	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! I've been here in the House since 2006, but I've never been so hard to go down here and get a position at the speaker's desk. I am beginning to appeal to all the people in Austria who have built up our Austria in the last 75 years as we have been able to find it a few days and weeks ago, to really appeal, to maintain peace and to try together to find a way out of this crisis. Mr Bundeskanzler appeals almost daily before running camera to work together and to live cohesion. We have found this in a first step when it comes to ensuring employment, involving ÖGB, AK and the social partners in short work. However, this is only one step for those sectors – companies and employees – where it is possible to complete short-time work from tomorrow on, but not at risk of health. That is why this aid package, with the EUR 4 billion in total, is an important step, a first step, but there are still many, many open questions. This aid package is too late for many people affected. Tomorrow, the AMS will have an avalanche of people who will have to report unemployed, who will have to report indebtedly. This package has not picked up these people because companies have been forced to leave since last Friday. Your aid package is also unclear as to how the individual company is going from tomorrow. How are small and medium-sized enterprises with one, with two, with five, with eight employees? Although the area is included in the 3.6 billion euros, Mr Finanzminister, we do not have any clear rules here yet. This aid package also goes too far in another area when it comes to the fact that you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, intend to abolish the Epidemic Act by creating a law of your own, which will be worse and completely uncertain for all those concerned who are now covered by the Epidemic Act – for entrepreneurs and employees. [[Abg. Kickl: That's right!]] That is why our colleague, Mr Leichtfried, has tabled this amendment, which provides for points to make this clearer from tomorrow. Please agree to this request. We are no longer in a situation where single mothers and fathers, relatives of to be cared for, no longer know how to act from Monday onwards, because 60 000 caregivers are no longer allowed to drive to Austria in the 24-hour care room. What are these people doing tomorrow? That is why this is how it is dealt with in our request. It does not matter to people at home whether it is in the Epidemie Act or, as we have now put it in the application, in the AVRAG, in the contract law adaptation law, that people who take care of their children and family members at home have a right to pay compensation and that employers are being reimbursed for this compensation. That's our request! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This aid package is also too unclear. Mrs Arbeidsminister, I do not know how everyone in this room is now, but our phones are running out of open questions. Yes, the appeal “Stay at home! ” is the right one. I've always been optimistic until last Friday. I tried to calm down the people who called me and said: What are we doing in the production halls now? What are we doing in the tight corporate buses? What do we do in the sleeping containers on the construction sites? If we have to go to the construction sites on Monday, do we have to go to the production halls on Monday? Mrs Labour Minister, we need an answer here! What happens under labour law? Pönalen, Termindruck – the state has to jump in now! The state now has to solve what the market cannot solve! That's our appeal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say a great thank you to those who are now helping to continue this system in Austria, to all people in the food industry, to all the people in bakery, to all people from parcel and postal delivery, who are putting off at the doorstep the things people need now, to all those who serve in public transport – the train companions, the bus drivers – to the truck drivers. Thank you very much! In conclusion, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen: We need many more solutions and answers in the next few hours. As of tomorrow, for workers, there will be the hotline of ÖGB and AK for labour law issues, for all issues relating to the employment relationship, for all works councils, businesses with agreements will be available round the clock. Let us try to get out of the crisis together! Together we can do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2956	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e2980	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! The Corona crisis is indeed challenging our whole state, and we liberals are the last ones who are not in the process of taking necessary measures, provided they are appropriate and reasonable and are also made clear. If we did nothing today, the wave of infection would roll over Austria. As international experts and Austrian think tanks say, treatment capacity in the Austrian hospitals and intensive care stations would be exhausted within a few weeks. That is why it is well justified to take tough measures. At the same time, however, we must also use this time to take sufficient precautions, especially in the health system and not just at the economic level, so that the expected patient attack, if the Corona wave continues to roll over Austria, can actually be handled. We must create security for our people – safety, above all, in the sense that we provide reliable and comprehensible information. That, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also say very specifically in your direction. Ten days ago, 3rd. In March, I rejected a request from the Health Committee which would have provided for mandatory and transparent information from Parliament, the political parties, but also the public not only about the immediate situation but also about the planned measures to be implemented. We're still missing that. We are now again receiving a lot of new information, and a lot of new measures are announced, which are to be taken in the next few days, which we have not even discussed and which have not yet been known. This is something that creates uncertainty and does not help the people to continue this positive mood that they still have in the long term. What else can we do to better prepare our health system for the current crisis to make better use of this expensive time we have? We need spare capacities in the hospital area, in the medical field. Federal states like Vienna have already begun to prepare appropriate emergency quarters. From my point of view, we need this across the board. We need the necessary equipment. We now know how the disease is going, what equipment, what protective equipment is needed, which we need to provide as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Where? Where?]] – Yes, that’s a good question I’ll address later. We also need to see that we have enough doctors to play these facilities. I like the proposal that the ÖGK, the Austrian Health Institute, should be paused and that the 300 principal doctors, who are there in Austria, should be provided with the health care services, and that, in some cases, 300 doctors can also be provided to the Austrian health care system in order to order as an epidemiologist. We also have a lot to do in long-term planning. In the past, it is obvious that too many spare capacities have been reduced. The beds of the army hospitals were closed. The field ambulances were reduced to a single ready-to-use, with us 27 years ago. That is, we have gone down from our state institutions to such a minimum that we learn from this crisis and now have to take the right measures in time to re-install these capacities for the next corona virus or for the next crisis. There are also many other laws that we still need to adapt. With one reason for today's session, the 1950 Epidemic Act was simply not sufficiently defined to cover everything in full for such modern circumstances. There are very serious legal deficits in the field of the supply of medicinal products. We urgently need to adapt the prescription law and emergency paragraph so that the pharmacists can continue to act completely unbureaucratically and even if no doctor is available or short-term supply difficulties occur through the wholesale – all that has already happened the last days, I can tell you from practice from my own company. To do this, we need a new legal regime. The applications were made on 3 March. In the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection discussed the proposal for a Council We'll deal with them next week at the plenary session. We will see that we adapt it to the current situation, that we make it as easy as possible for all political groups and maintain the ability to act in our health system and in the field of pharmaceuticals. This also includes the amendment of the Pharmacopoeia Act as regards the opening hours, for example, the delivery possibilities. This is an issue that has been discussed among the political groups for two years, but the law is in the ministry and has not yet been set in motion. Finally, I would like to stress that it is very, very important for all of us – especially for those who make political decisions and who have to justify as hard measures as they now stand – that we have transparent and clear information on how the spread of infection in Austria really is. In order to do this, it is imperative that testing on the corona virus goes wide and that the rapid test available in Austria for more than a week is actually used once and across all patients, all suspected cases are checked, and that those from health professionals, from the security services that have been sent to house quarantine, because in their environment was a disease case, are not only tested immediately, but also after two or three days after the classical incubation period are tested a second time once the test has a higher level of determination. If such persons are negative a second time, they must of course be available for their services again. If we continue as before, we will soon be standing in our supply-related systems without significant employees and without the appropriate personnel resources. I would like to conclude by thanking all those who maintain the order, the care in our country, the doctors, the pharmacists, the nurses, the police and the judicial officers, all those who are on the front line using their personal health to ensure that public order and care are maintained. Finally, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3098	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker is Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3122	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! First help is what we are talking about now – first aid for those they need, for all the people in Austria they need, and also for the economy. The aim is to keep the economy alive – it was said to want to “maintain the blood cycle of the economy” – and to ensure that once we get out of this – if I compare it now – almost winter sleep, in which we go there, the life, as we love it in Austria, can go on again. This is necessary in our own interest and in the interests of those who are weak, we must protect. If I have to say weakly and protect now, I mean, on the one hand, the people who are affected by the Coronavirus, all of us, but especially the elderly and otherwise weak, but also the small companies, the weak companies, the micro-enterprises, the individual companies, the self-employed and also the many associations with one, two, three employees in the arts and culture sector, which are now all heavily affected. We want to make sure that they can survive that they continue to exist. Yeah, it's already been said: Part of the economy, part of the companies, part of the people is currently overburdened because they maintain the public life, the basic care – they are to thank as has already been said by my previous speakers – but what about the others we are now practically Send on forced leave, in forced rest, which tomorrow can no longer open? – They need our support quite massively because they have a loss of revenue, a total failure and at the same time the costs – rents, insurances, taxes; it has already been addressed – continue to run. All of this goes on, and often the reserves are not enough to bridge a longer phase of – we don't know how long – two, three or whatever many weeks. That means they need our support. An exceptional crisis requires exceptional measures. The Epidemic Law is not suitable for this, therefore, this federal law, which has now been launched so quickly by all those involved. I think it's a great sign that this works in Austria. Austria is also different in this regard. The three measures that are particularly important for small businesses: Short work, if at all Getting employed – sometimes it is not even that way. Short work is a possibility. This ensures jobs, and people stay busy with businesses. Up to 100 percent of working time can be suspended in the case of short work. Further: Maintain liquidity in relation to taxes, but also by granting loans or supporting credit repayments. In my view, the third point is particularly important: the hardness fund, which is available to small businesses, to the self-employed, to the EPUs in order to cover the current costs. They don't officially go into short-time work. All payments related to short-time work do not apply to them, nevertheless the costs continue to run, and there is the hardness fund to support these companies. Fourth, we have: Economic recovery measures; these should also be included. I've got it before. First aid said, and that's exactly what I mean: First aid does not mean that it can be done with these 4 billion euros. It will and will have to go on. As soon as we can estimate what is still to be done – and proposals are being made on a continuous basis – this will also be implemented. This is the first aid, and I am glad that we can implement it so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3177	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3199	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Yes, what is happening now means, as Mrs Götze has said, a major change for many companies, but also for many workers, and there will be a loss of time. If you are in short-time work, you earn less short-term work aid. People have already lost their jobs, and everyone who is a realist knows that many others will also lose their jobs. What is happening in the workplaces and in workers' losses cannot compensate for any rescue shield that we are inventing here. I can't. You can do your best, you can try to break it off, but you also have to be honest: Someone who has lost his job now can They don't compensate for this with the world's largest rescue shield. One must also be so honest to say: The people who are employed in the public service, and we in politics, remain spared because of our Is income guaranteed. That must be said, we are in a very privileged situation. Many have already been praised today, and I would just hate to disturb the harmony a little bit and to draw attention to things that could go a little better, because just some people do not have the inner form of office at the moment. It called a friend of mine who runs a hotel that obviously needs to close, on Thursday the AUVA to come and check it out on Monday. So the AUVA now controls a hotel where no guests and no staff are. That's great. You also have to say: The ski resorts are now closed – thank God – but in the spa centers of social insurance, as it is finely moist, elderly people who have health complaints still sit together comfortably. So the chamber-controlled social insurance companies show their professional competence again from the best side. The example of Ischgl should also be given a closer look at the ground: If Island is on the 5th. March knew Ischgl was a Coronaherd, then no one can tell me that Mr. Platter and his district chiefs and all of his colleagues there knew this only a week later. There are some who risked the lives of foreign people in order not to make waves, or whatever the motive was, I don't know. That's what went to the bottom. That's not how it is. It's also about setting a signal. If we want the measures that the government is now taking to be complied with, we cannot let people go through with the fact that people do not adhere to what is the requirement. Hard times are now coming on to all those working in health professions; there are already hard times, but these will still take some time. They have been rightly praised by many: the nurses, pharmacists and pharmacists, the doctors, but also the teachers, the kindergarten teachers who are now caring for the children, although the schools themselves are closed, and maintain the care, we are grateful; also the young doctors in the clinical and practical year, who are now providing their services for little to nothing. This brings me to a point that Mr Kaniak made earlier, namely protection equipment. This is often hardly available until it is not available. The general physicians in the practices outside often have to carry out their work with what else they have available every day – and they are in contact with the people who may be infected, risking their own health for us and for the community. This cannot be appreciated high enough, and I think it is good to be careful to learn what we can learn from this phase for the time when something like that comes back. My thanks – I join – apply to all those who, using their personal health, work for the community and sacrifice themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3250	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3274	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Austrians! Yeah, it's been thanked very many today. I would like to thank a group that makes a special contribution, namely our Entrepreneurs and, of course, farmers and our farmers, who, with their employees, ensure security of supply in our country. This is a very important contribution for the people, because the Austrians get all they need, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is a challenge for everyone, which has been identified more often today, but it is a great challenge for us entrepreneurs in particular. We know this: We entrepreneurs always take a risk, that is already in the nature of entrepreneurship. We are going to the limit, with our personal commitment, with the financial commitment; and together with our employees, we have often mastered a crisis with much commitment. But what we are experiencing now, ladies and gentlemen, we have never experienced. We're no longer pilots, and that's why we need companionship. It is therefore important and right that the Federal Government sets out measures that support us and give our employees a certain degree of security. I would like to stress one thing: Our Federal Government has a very clear plan, and unlike many other countries – this proves this meeting today – we have created the laws necessary for us to be able to take the right measures, ladies and gentlemen – to thank all those who have contributed to it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It has been stressed more often, Austrians and Austrians have one thing to say: We always stick together when it comes to it – and now it comes to keeping together and above all not losing our courage, ladies and gentlemen. This Federal Government has therefore taken decisions that are correct and important for safety, health and job security. It is already true that these decisions have, of course, a strong impact on the personal, family and economic environment. But let us now take as an example the short work: This is a very crucial measure, and we – the social partners and the Federal Government – have so bound the package that it also has the right effect. There are short-term registration times – 48 hours – then, of course, a replacement rate, which is different, but which covers exactly the needs. It is also very important that it applies to all farms, including the small ones. It has been very important to us that small and large together have the opportunity to use this model. We have also put in place measures to ensure liquidity. There are adjustments in AWS and ÖHT in this respect in order to create credit bridge opportunities for companies through these measures. We have also reduced the burden with tax subsidies and social security benefits so that we can get over this crisis. It is already that we have to do it in such a way that businessmen can do it, that is, unbureaucratic and simple. The employees in these institutions will also support us accordingly. We can only do it together; it does not help if we criticise before. As I said, In this situation, let's try to make the most of it together, so I'm looking for you. I think that if we do all of this together, we will get out even more of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3344	Next speaker: Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3368	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! In the time we are now standing before, there can only be a motto: Solidarity and cohesion. But that also means leaving no one behind. Today, we in Parliament are deciding on a 4-billion-euro package, which is essentially about money – these 4 billion euros – for us to be able to strengthen the health system, if it is necessary to finance short-time work, and that we also have a catch-up network for large businesses and corporations. That's good, and that's what all of us support here. We say from the SPÖ that things are missing that we also need. The first is the information. There are tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that will not know what to do tomorrow. Can they lock up? Can't they lock up? In particular, they do not know how to pay their employees. There's no phone number they know about: There I can call tomorrow and register the short work for my staff so that I don't have to cancel it! We hear from small and medium-sized enterprises that many cancellations have already been partially agreed and partly unilateral. This is not necessary, however, because there is this short-term work model so that people remain employed in the company, but the cost of it is the public hand that takes over the state. That means if you are a worker and your employer says: Sign a consensual termination!, then don't sign, that's not necessary, there is the short work model. What's missing is a phone number you can call. We proposed yesterday that this should be the financial office, that there should be a state body where one calls and everything is done for one, so that the entrepreneurs do not have to call three, four, five, six, seven jobs to deal with these issues. The government has said that this is a good proposal; it still wants to consider it. Today, however, it is time for the government finally to announce this telephone number, because there is an uncertainty among entrepreneurs and thus with workers. This is about tens of thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of workers who do not know how to proceed tomorrow. We need this phone number. The government has the money, the government has the instruments that one does not have to quit and that the farms can survive. That's the first point missing. The second, which is missing, is a regulation concerning care. We know that tens of thousands of caregivers who care for our older fellow citizens in the 24-hour care business may not be able to get to the country now. We know that family members will have to jump in. Until the civilians can do this, it takes three weeks, they must all in quarantine and so on. The 20-25-year-olds are a major carrier group. Before they are released to the sick and to the elderly, they must surely be virus-free. That means it takes three weeks. The question is: What's going on in these three weeks? As for the people who care, it must be clear that the public hand takes over the costs that it is not there to Kündi- They will be able to take care of their families. – This is missing in this package too. The third thing that is missing is measures for individuals and artists, so that they have an income to pay their rent, because there is no short work for them. – This is the third part missing. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution to ensure that these things are no longer missing, but that they are taken up: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval. You can only say: Those who are ill will soon improve, and those who are healthy. Stay healthy! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and by Mr Kickl and Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] [[11:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3540	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3565	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrian! At this point, first of all, a great thank you to the citizens of our country, who are really all involved in a great solidarity, that we can work together to slow down the spread of this virus, and that we can deal with this disease crisis together. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, I cannot thank you very much. What we've experienced in the last few weeks is ridiculous. There has been the first lock in Tyrol since 11 am. Two days ago, the Minister of the Interior stood and said there would be no starting block. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, finally put the facts on the table, you will probably have elaborated scenarios under what circumstances will come. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] There is no information for the population. We learn something new every day, which will happen next or next day. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz:... completely absurd!]] I don't know why you're getting so nervous in the ÖVP now. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You must also see that the population has a right to know what to expect in the next few days. Only making yourself up here and knocking on the shoulder is a little bit in view of the events that – for example in Ischgl – have taken place. There is already the question of why not act, if the authorities knew there was a corona case, if it was already known abroad that Ischgl is a hotspot. However, I would like the authorities there to be held responsible with exactly the same hardness as sports clubs – the Vice-Chancellor has spoken about it today – if they dare to meet. This is a responsibility of the authorities, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As if this weren't enough, people were allowed to drive out after the town's lockouts, left to Innsbruck, they stayed there for another night in other hotels, they might have done sightseeing – we don't know that – and were at the airport the next day, perhaps together with many of you who flew from Tyrol to Vienna yesterday. This is an unprecedented failure in the authorities, as this Federal Government can no longer just knock on its shoulder, but there is also time to say what is going on at last here today. It is precisely these cases that must not be repeated. It's a disaster when we buy it, we're partying here, and so there's a lot more, many sick people and people's lives are being threatened due to government failure. But we threaten the population of Draconic punishments. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a discrepancy that must finally end. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today we also decide on a 4-billion-euro package. I was here in the National Council in 2008, where it was 100 billion euros, 100 billion euros in a night and fog action for banks. Today we are here talking about 4 billion euros, which will not be enough at the moment; we already know that today, you all know, that is totally impossible to think. Especially for small and smallest companies, this will end in chaos tomorrow, in a disaster. Imagine, you have a small business, a flower shop or the famous barber shop with one or two employees! You can now send them in short work, but the operator himself, the owner lives on this business. He's got to pay for his rent. He's got liabilities. They need the solution tomorrow, they need it, otherwise, at the end of this crisis, we'll see that the tokens for the crisis have to pay the little ones. That is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot allow it to happen, because the existences of many hundreds of thousands of Austrians depend on it. These are not just the entrepreneurs, they're also the employees. They all need security, and for this security, that there will be no financial loss and that it will not be the small ones who have to pay the token, ladies and gentlemen, for that we need very, much more money. Of course we are for this first step, of course we are available. But I really ask you to work on the next package today, because we will need it soon. The need will come very quickly. In this context, I would like to make one more point: Solidarity is also lived by our young people, our children. There have been school events, excursions cancelled. The cost? – No one knows whether parents will stay at the expense, on the cancellation fees. Often very short-term, the day before, on Tuesday, children, teenagers, parents have learned that the school skiing course planned for Wednesday is cancelled. These are very short-term developments. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I really ask you to consider this, because it is the parents who would have to vote for it otherwise. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3694	This motion for a resolution is also properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Ralph Schalmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3722	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! These are challenging times in which we are in. The Chinese, I think, have a saying, which is: May you live in interesting times! – That these times are challenging and interesting, I personally noticed these days that there was a small change of roles at home and that I suddenly had to talk to my parents in my conscience and explain to them that they are not going to come to us now to see my children, that is, their grandchildren, that Easter has been cancelled with the grandchildren, and, and, and. – That’s something special, because in the past it was mostly the case that they had to talk to me in the conscience. The sharpest weapon of all of us in this crisis, in the situation we are in, is our solidarity. Solidarity means, on the one hand, that we have heard social contacts today, but on the other, it also means helping those who depend on our help: old people, people who have immune problems, and, of course, people with disabilities, chronically ill, who do not come out without us. This solidarity serves to slow down the spread of Corona, to maintain the health system so that at the end of the day we can save those people who belong to the risk groups. However, this is only possible if we help all of us together and live the solidarity that has been expressed and which is a great deal of conjugation today. I would like to express my express thanks to all employees in the social sector and in the health sector, the pharmacists and pharmacists, at this point on behalf of my group, and also personally. I would particularly like to thank the more than 500 000 employees of Austrian trade, especially food trade, who have actually done sensational things in recent days. I know what it means to work in such situations; I have done this myself for 23 years. It wasn't easy what happened in the last few days. For a green person, the following may well be something of its own: I would like to expressly thank the transport and logistics sector, which has also played its part, for the fact that greens do so, but they have also done a great job. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would particularly like to thank the many civil society initiatives that have been set up in the last few days, which want to make sure that those who are sick at home who are not supposed to go out, help those who via Facebook, via Twitter, over social media in general to help each other. That's great. I would also particularly like to thank the municipal services, the city of Vienna with its own hotline, the city of Wels – you hear, please: a greener now praises a blue mayor – which has also set up appropriate activities in recent days. It is also important to mention this positively and to say thank you for it. We must not forget, however, that the next few days in isolation, which we all feel together, will not be easy. When we look at what news we have received from China, we also know what is expected of us in the next few days and weeks – we must be so honest – that the challenge is that the increased retreat to the private will also be accompanied by an increase in violence in families and partnerships, so I would like to tell the audiences at home at this point, especially the spectators: Please, violence is not a private problem. The law protects all victims of violence. If you are victims of violence or if you are afraid to become victims of violence, right now, in the next few weeks, please use the women's helpline: 0800 222 555. It is very important not to believe that violence is part of it now, because it may have always been, but really use it! Thank you at this point also to the employees precisely these initiatives, for example the Women's Helpline, which will be available and help in the next few weeks 24 hours a week. One last thought: Hopefully we learned something else from this story: Those who have been the loudest in the past for the privatisation of health care should remember in future the benefits of a solidary funded health care system for all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3791	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3812	I would like to start with something very basic, because, I think, we get all the inscriptions, why do we even think that it is necessary to do what we are doing here, why we can't do it differently and whether what the Federal Government is doing is not enough. I think it is very important that we are aware that, as a legislative body, as an Austrian Parliament, we are capable of acting. Especially these days show so much why it is so important that we are capable of action and act as well: Because all these measures, which are now proposed by the Federal Government, would not be possible if we as a Parliament could not meet and meet as quickly as possible. [[General condolences.]] This is our job as a politician and as a politician, we do not need to thank it. It's our responsibility to do that. But if I think so – I have spent a lot of time here in the house in the last three days, because it was difficult to find out how we meet, how this works and if we can do it at all – then I have to say that there are a lot of staff from the parliamentary clubs, from the parliamentary management – all who sit here, from the stenographs to the people behind me – as well as the sign language interpreters who make such a possible at all because this is the guarantee that the measures proposed here can be implemented. So: It is important that we come together, it is necessary, and of course we comply with this responsibility. [[It was in favour of NEOS and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Thank you!]] It is also important that we fulfil this responsibility because it proposes measures that will take a massive part in the personal freedom of individual people or of many people in Austria. This does not mean that I believe that the measures are not necessary, I just believe that it is necessary to be particularly careful and cautious. We just heard from the Federal Chancellor that civil servants and civil servants should continue their service. This is for these young men – they will do that, and there are good reasons why they must do so – a massive restriction on their personal freedom because they are forced to serve. Such measures must be handled with caution. It's about information, it's about comprehensive transparency, and I also think this salami tactics – I understand that we don't know all the measures in advance – that we're getting new measures every day, getting more and more presented when they're so incisive, difficult. We give the Federal Government the opportunity to issue comprehensive bans on both business premises and certain places, as laid down in the law. For example, the explanatory notes: Playgrounds, public squares. This too is a measure that can be comprehensive and must be handled with particular care. Mr Health Minister, we discussed this yesterday in the Committee on Budgets: I am sure that you will be very careful to deal with this, but if we are already reading about how the media are writing about these measures, then on the one hand we have to ask the media to act more cautiously, on the other hand, the communication of the Federal Government as well as the communication as a whole must certainly be very prudent. In fact, if I have to read from lockouts for all of Austria, although it is not about lockouts, but because we are careful not to visit certain places that we avoid gatherings of people, then I think it is important that we carefully deal with these massive restrictions on personal freedom on the one hand and also carefully communicate on the other. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So I was a little irritated, I honestly say, when the vice chancellor here said: Inconceivable that sports clubs still hold trainings. – Yes, of course they should not, but the population is not yet aware of where and how these restrictions should apply. I get calls from people who don't know: Is your remedial institution affected? – Yes, of course we will also see that they will no longer enter. That's all clear, but people don't know yet, and that's why you have to communicate with meticulously and comprehensively. Then I also come to the really very draconian punishments provided for in the law. I do not think that many people will easily deal with these bans, and I also believe that it is right that, when someone deliberately does so, one suspects it with appropriate punishments. However, I also believe that it is very essential to see very carefully that people who simply don't yet know what that means are not burdened with absurd criminal threats – up to 30,000 euros under the law – afterwards. What is also important in this context is that we have managed to negotiate a sunset clause together for this new epidemic law, because I think it is essential that these comprehensive possibilities, which will be put to the Minister's attention here, have an end sometime. I therefore propose an amendment by Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer and Mr Meinl-Reisinger, which has been distributed. It is essentially about making appropriate corrections, it is about having reporting obligations to the National Council in connection with the funds we are setting up. It is also important that the scheme also applies to workers subject to the Land Arbeitsordnung and Vorarlberg's Land- and Forestry Workers' Act, and in particular to this Sunset clause: that these measures cannot continue forever and that they will also be terminated by the end of this year, and, of course, that the public security service bodies have the opportunity to support them accordingly in order to also enforce these measures. This is something that is otherwise regulated in the Epidemic Law, and we're just going to do that now. Since it is a common request from four parties, and I also assume that the Freedom Party will also agree, I believe that we can do this together. I am confident that we can deal with this crisis together, but I believe that there is a great deal of caution to be done, and we must also be careful about the draconian measures that are necessary, that we do not act in excess. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e3984	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines and is distributed and under negotiation. Mr Georg Strasser, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4008	Madam President. Estimated ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We are facing demanding weeks, hopefully it won't be months. Our common goal in this country must be to limit the spread of the virus. For this reason, it is important that the measures taken by the Federal Government, the are good and correct, are implemented. The next week will be crucial so that, in the end, there will not be such a situation as in Italy. It needs cohesion, it needs solidarity, because it is about health – and there and there it will also be about body and life. Please let's open our eyes and help together! Together we can do this! One word to the hamster purchases: I'm allowed to hold: The supply of basic food is guaranteed in Austria. The food trade and also the direct marketers, the food-processing plants and also we, the Austrian farmers, are responsible for this. A great thank you to all the people who are responsible along this chain, that we can fulfill our mission to ensure the supply of healthy food to the Austrian population! A big thank you for that! [[As a surprise to the ÖVP as well as to Mr Jakob Schwarz and Mr Fürderwinkler.]] We like to do this, and we are aware of this responsibility. Spring work begins in many regions of Austria, the agricultural spring work. It is sown and it is fertilized, and I thank the Federal Government for its far-sighted view, for the preventive measures which ensure that the resources available to our courts are secured: Seeds, plant protection and also fertilisers. This will ensure that there is food and feed in Austria in 2020. A great thank you for this wide view! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially in the crisis, it often becomes apparent that our lives, our processes have become a little vulnerable. Globalisation brings many dependencies, and I am convinced that many systems will have to change in principle after this crisis. We farmers – it is Sunday lunch – cover the table every day, and we have been standing for generations on this country and on the project Austria, and we will also prove this in this crisis, I promise you here! – Thank you, good luck and good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4060	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4084	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! Dear College in the House! Dear spectators at home! We met here to provide emergency assistance together. It has already been said a lot: First of all, it's about health and protecting you at home. It is also about ensuring the provision of services in all areas, because there are major concerns in all areas of life and thus there is uncertainty. You, ladies and gentlemen at home, have a right to information and an assessment of the situation, because it is precisely what is safe. The gastronomy and tourism sector, with the many, the hundreds of thousands of employees, is one of the most important segments of the Austrian economy, and this area is heavily affected. Small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees face major challenges, and there are dramatic effects from the small innkeeper to the large hotel. It is precisely in this area that measures need to be taken to dispel this, because the individual companies, the small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees have This is the first time that we have been able to do The domino effect is very large, and the cycle that is set in motion with it has macroeconomic effects. Therefore, it will need fast and unbureaucratic solutions, and there will also be a need for a reception of banks. From the government side, it needs as much support as possible and as wide as possible, since it is not a business in which the machines can be serviced after three weeks. The crisis has far-reaching consequences, as there are already booking cancellations by the end of the summer. For employees with child care obligations and the older generation, the remuneration payments must be made as quickly as possible by the public authorities. That is what the state is really demanding, ladies and gentlemen. In this context, women are once again most affected and now need safety and protection through the laws and the government. We support the emergency aid package, and in addition, it takes even more money and more precise provisions and solutions to leave no one behind at this hour. Dear Federal Government, do not shut your eyes to the needs of the people you have not taken into account! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Take everyone with you! That's why I'm trying to get everyone to agree to our requests, because people out there believe in us. Thank you to all those who are now doing the highest performance to be there for others! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home, follow the instructions that have been communicated to you over and over again: Protect yourself and others and stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4138	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4160	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! As a Neo-Deputy, I have a lot of respect for what we stand for now. The situation is quite challenging. I have been monitoring the financial crisis and the euro crisis in front of the TV. The difficulties that existed in the political operation at that time have caused me to doubt a little that policy's ability to act can be maintained and democracy remains robust, in particular because this ability to act and react can also be in a certain contradiction to comply with the basic democratic rules. On this narrow ridge, I think, we're walking these days too. I now have very much respect for those who do so, especially for Minister of Health, but also for the entire Federal Government, which has now acted very quickly and prudently. I would also like to thank the opposition for the success of this rapid parliamentary process in bringing these important laws into being, including for the largely constructive debate in the Budget Committee yesterday and today in plenary. I hope that at the end of the crisis, this common procedure and the management of this crisis can lead to a strengthening of confidence in politics and democracy, and I hope that all of you will continue to cooperate. Short to the crisis fund: I believe that there has been a great deal of success, even if the amount of EUR 4 billion that has been planned so far is criticised. However, I believe that the crisis fund has been set up so quickly – and 4 billion euros are something, at least once for the first time – even before the bans on posts are imposed, is a great achievement, including the civil service. I believe that it is also great that we have managed, in this emergency situation, to move away from other important targets of the Federal Government, such as the balanced budget, in order to ensure, after this Whatever-it-takes access, that there is no even more serious impact on the budget and on the economy. I also think that it is a good thing that we have this agreement between the social partners for short work, and it is also good that it has not become a classic economic package, but that it is primarily about bridging aid for those who have a loss of turnover and who have access to the closures – and that is because it takes a little bit of a breakthrough through this medical crisis before the fog lights up a bit and one can at all take a clear look at what is necessary in the short term, and then one can see specifically where there is a need to strengthen demand. I would like to thank all those who are now helping to overcome this situation, this crisis, and also all the people in Austria for understanding that there are these relatively drastic measures. However, it appears from Asia, China and other countries – China is not the perfect example now, but it also affects many other Asian countries – that this access is one that actually reduces the risk of infection and infection, and thus can also be reversed by the greatest economic damage. In particular, I would also like to thank those who are now maintaining this emergency operation of the Republic in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4208	Before I give the next speaker the floor and I will also begin to call for the voting procedures that follow after the end of the debate, I would like to say to all Members who are following the debate in the gallery and in the surrounding rooms that I will make a brief part-session just before the vote, so that everyone will have the opportunity to vote, as it was agreed, in the Chamber. That means that before the votes there will be a very short break in the sitting – only for your information. Mrs Philippa Strache is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4232	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear watcher of the transmission! The last days have been marked by uncertainty and concern on so many levels: first of all, concern for health and concern for a novel virus, because people are worried about their loved ones, their children and their parents. It's an insecurity that hardly anyone can take. The Federal Government now has the power and also the responsibility to take relatively fast measures to protect the population. Of course, it will always be in this situation Give people who say it's or wasn't enough, not fast enough, not enough precautions. But what is the absolutely right way in such a situation? The Republic is in one of its worst crises – above all economically. However, the crisis now needs to be mastered together, it is important to show how much cohesion in Austria is in such an exceptional situation. 4 billion euros have been channelled as an emergency aid package in order to reduce the maximum economic damage for the time being, but there will also be the additional measures envisaged. It must not remain with these 4 billion euros, because with this we are abandoning our entrepreneurs, who make Austria strong. There has to be a doubling – and with that it will not be enough. To this end, I would like to formulate relatively salopp, as Bruno Kreisky once said: A few billion more debts make me sleepless nights, than hundreds of thousands of unemployed! The truth is reasonable to man, and I hope that one will stick to it. But this sentence or saying should not be interpreted to me as an absurd conspiracy theory. Absorbed conspiracy theories are currently training enough. I just think that people will feel if they are told, and that this will also increase uncertainty, which would be counterproductive. There is only one appeal to all of us at this time: Let's take it into consideration. Let us not be panicous, but considerate! Let's stay home! Even though it is still against us because some have still not recognized the seriousness of the situation, but: Let's really avoid social contacts as well as we can! It's not a Corona party, it's not a fun holiday. Unfortunately, it is a serious and necessary measure to save lives, just as it has been doing doctors and doctors every day for weeks, nurses, volunteers and many more. It has been mentioned so often today, but you can't stress it often enough – on days like this, a thank you like a powerless cover, but still –: A thousand thanks for your great commitment in these hours, you make impossible! Let us all help, let us be responsible, show how to master the corona crisis in solidarity! Let us keep Corona together, but in a way, lonely, at home! For the next days: lonely together. Stay healthy and happy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4281	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4305	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Estimated Austrians! Yes, what do people in this country expect from us? – You expect the state structures to function in such a situation. They expect us to help them in all the challenges they face now, they expect us to pursue a clear communication and information policy, and they expect us to put in place the right measures that have already been discussed in great detail. The people in this country expect us to give them security, and I believe it is our common task to avoid uncertainty and for the To ensure the safety of human beings. That is why it is important that our state structures operate seamlessly, starting from the National Council and the Land Days to the municipalities and to my colleagues as mayors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need to help people in daily life, and this is about the smaller problems: that older people who can no longer go shopping who are not mobile are provided. There is an initiative in Carinthia that young people are willing to volunteer to these services, but it must also be regulated and guaranteed that they can do so in the next few days. The second is, of course, medical care. I assume that our health minister and his institutions are preparing for it accordingly. The third thing I want to do – and I really want to point it out once again – is information and communication this week. Mr Scherak has already mentioned this. I have received calls from entrepreneurs since yesterday, from workers from our region. A lot of people from us are commuting, they don't know now: Should they get on the bus, should they get into the car tomorrow morning, go to the construction site, or do they have to stay at home? I expect – and I ask once again – that there be clear communication, and above all that information will be passed on to the organisations up to the mayors. As far as the measures are concerned, many things have already been mentioned: I think much is the right way, but we are all also of the opinion that it will probably be too little, certainly too little. We have already put forward quite specific measures today, and I will also make an appropriate motion for a resolution with a specific measure. I would particularly like to point out to the Minister of Economic Affairs, but also to the Minister of Finance – I have already done so in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs – that there is also a need to bring banking supervision into the boat and banking supervision with the OeNB -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4350	Mr Angerer, you have pointed out that you will make another motion for a resolution. I must draw your attention to the fact that the speaking time of your group has been exhausted. If you want to bring it in, you need to read it now so that it can happen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4366	Of course, Madam President. I would therefore ask you to take account of the supervision of banks. I now tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4503	Thanks a lot. The motion for a resolution has now been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Christoph Matznetter is speaking on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4530	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do it very briefly, but it's very important: Please consider how you vote! We have tabled an amendment to the fact that the safety net that has existed for 100 years since the 1913 Epidemic Act, which has been unchanged since 1950, has not been removed from the legal right to compensation for earnings, which would now be provided for in this new Coronavirus, COVID-19 package. Please agree, otherwise on Monday it will be called: Game over! – The only asset that small businesses have is the right to a replacement under the Epidemic Act. My appeal: Voices I would like to ask you, and also the motion for a resolution concerning the moratorium, for otherwise we will have a special session in a week with more problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e4561	No one is reporting on this. This debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As announced, I will interrupt the session for 3 minutes and ask all Members to come to the meeting room. The sitting was suspended until 12.26 a.m. [[The meeting was suspended at 12.23 a.m. and resumed at 12.26 a.m.]] I'll start the interrupted session again. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft COVID-19 Act in 102 of the Supplements. Mr Fuchs, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr Krainer, Mrs Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Since an additional or amendment proposal contains constitutional provisions, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Therefore, I would like to begin by voting on the parts concerned by the amendments or amendments referred to above, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning the amendment to the title. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the approval to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 § 2. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 § 3 Z 5. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. This means that we shall be able to vote on this part of the draft law as it appears in the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Members of the Fuchs, colleagues and others have an additional request concerning the insertion of a point 8 in Art. 1 § 3 para. 1 introduced. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 § 3 para. 2 and 3. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Members of the Fuchs, colleagues and others have an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 4 in Art. 1 § 3. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for signs. – This is the minority, rejected. Members of Parliament also have an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 4 in Art. 1 § 3. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for signs. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr President, have also received an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 4 in Art. 1 § 3. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 § 4 and Art. 2 introduced. Who is for this amendment? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 4 Z 6 § 3b para. 1 introduced. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's up for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 4 Z 6 § 3b para. 2 introduced. Who is in favour of this amendment? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who gives this the consent? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 4 Z 6 § 3b para. 3 first sentence. Who is for this change? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 4 Z 6 § 3b para. 3 Z 1 inserted. Whoever speaks for this change, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I'm asking for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 4 in Art. 4 Z 6 § 3b. Who is for this change? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr President, have also received an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 4 in Art. 4 Z 6 § 3b. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Members of the Fuchs, colleagues and others have an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 6b in Art. 4 Z 7. Who gives this the consent? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 7 Z 1 § 18b. Whoever speaks for this change, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Fuchs, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 7 Z 1 § 18b. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Since there is another amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr President of the Commission, concerning this provision, we shall immediately be voting on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment just mentioned. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – Thank you, that is unanimously accepted. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 8 § 2 introduced. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr De Keersmaeker and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph 2a in Art. 8 to be inserted. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. Section 4 para. 1 introduced. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Maurer, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr President, have also tabled an amendment on Art. Section 4 para. 1 introduced. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. Section 4 para. 2 introduced. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Members of the Fuchs, colleagues and others have an additional or amendment concerning Art. Section 4 para. 3 and insertion of a new paragraph 5 and § 5. Who is in favour of these changes? – This is the minority, rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and received as part of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and others, on 'Supplement to the Economic Assistance Package'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the resolution to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hubert Fuchs, colleagues, on the suspension of the EU's contributions from Austria to the management of the 'Corona crisis'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'further measures to effectively combat the economic and social consequences of the Corona virus'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hubert Fuchs, colleagues, on ‘Solidary tax special arrangements for entrepreneurs for the suspension of burdens due to the COVID-19 crisis’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. In this way we shall vote on the second part of the motion for a resolution. Agenda item: Draft Federal Law on School Education, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses and the Federal Law on the professional maturity examination, including the title and receipt in 103 of the supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues, on 'Full cost compensation for school events cancelled due to the COVID-19 crisis'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. This means that we shall vote on the third part of the motion for a resolution. Agenda item: Draft federal law amending the criminal code, including title and entry into 104 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Third reading vote. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on 4. Agenda item: Draft Federal Act amending the Chamber of Commerce Act, together with the title and entry into 105 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. [[12:39:32]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00016_d7e5002	I now have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 4, so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: ‘Day-and-day arrangements point 1: The amendment Annex 1/1 is hereby rejected. The amendment Annex 1/2 is rejected. The draft law will be adopted at second and third reading in accordance with the Committee's proposal, taking into account the amendment proposal. Agenda item 2: The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in accordance with the Committee's proposal. Agenda item 3: The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in accordance with the Committee's proposal. Agenda item 4: The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in accordance with the Committee’s proposal.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Ladies and gentlemen! In this difficult situation, the National Council has today demonstrated its full ability to act and function. We are also taking on our constitutional responsibility. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 18. It will be convened in writing on March 2020. I also announce that, following this meeting, a meeting of the main committee will be held here in the plenary room. The Federal Council will also meet today. I wish you all the best, as well as all Austrians. This meeting is closed.
