ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1572	I'll open the 58. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Michael Hammer, Alexander Melchior, Klaus Köchl, Philip Kucher, Maximilian Lercher, Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, Ing. Markus Vogl, Rainer Wimmer, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Edith Mühlberghuber, Walter Rauch, Mag. Georg Bürstmayrund Josef Schellhorn. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1640	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1764	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Members Weidinger and Fischer requested that the Consumer Protection Committee report on the government paper on a "Bundesgesetz, which amends the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act, the Telecommunications Act 2003 and the Competition Act", 409 of the supplements set a deadline until 16.11.2020. The request will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1786	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. A day block time of 5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 98, SPÖ 68, FPÖ 55, Green 50 and NEOS 40 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 20 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask you, if you agree to this proposal, to give a sign on this. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now going into the agenda. [[13:30:05]] 1. Point First reading: People's desire "Climate People's Desire" (348 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1829	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Johannes Jestingenschlager is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1859	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are allowed to hold the first reading on the popular desire for “Climate People’s Desire”, and I believe that this is an essential issue: Climate protection and the question of the future of our society. If we see the numerous signatures that this popular desire has finally received, then we must put a phrase behind it, and that means: A signature is not only an obligation that you enter into personally if you sign it, but above all it is not an obligation, that is, to express something to all those people who have expressed themselves positively. Climate protection cannot be delegated – not to other countries, not to other groups of society, nor to others within society, i.e., everyone must ultimately make his own contribution and become active. These signatures are not only a duty, they do not require us as a policy to give the subject to society, so to speak, but they commit us to do so. we also work as a policy – and we become active. In recent hours and also yesterday in the budget debate, we have already experienced the importance of climate protection in the new government and how the budget has been adequately set up. I think it is a very important aspect that Federal Minister Weessler is equipped with the climate billions so that we can also work. The first steps of this responsible policy commitment have been taken by the Renewable Development Act, and I would just like to take an example of this: the gas: In the case of gas we have an obligation, about 20 percent of the CO2 energy emissions in Austria is caused by gas. At 90 percent of the gas there is an import dependency, and this is a strong foreign policy issue at the moment; on the one hand, Nord Stream 2, the discussion with Russia, on the other hand the discussion with Turkey in the Aegean. That means gas is a huge theme. We have the great treasure to be able to produce biogas, green gas in Austria. Today, we could already cover 50 percent of this gas consumption from our raw material reserves, from domestic food and ultimately also biomass and biogas raw materials. That is to say, we must also assign the appropriate priority to the biogas theme in the Renewable Extension Act. Yesterday the methane strategy of the European Commission was presented, and there we would have a double effect, a win-win effect by getting out of methane with biogas recovery. That is, these signatures are obligation, but not remission – also for society! Politically, we have taken the first steps. But where are we social? – There is the willingness to act, a very large one, if only one considers the participation of solar power plants. We also want to ensure that citizens can take part in renewable energy and, where they are unable to do so at home, in cooperatives and the like. However, it is also seen in the behaviour that in society the willingness to behave climate-neutrally there and there, such as using more public transport. But the willingness of society must also be able to allow something new, and we already see a certain divergence. If you look at citizens' lists, you can see that there is no willingness for a new plant construction, especially in the wind power field or in the hydropower sector, since and there very strong resistance comes from the regions. We must take this seriously, but we must also look at it, since we have a great goal, how we deal with it. But you have to say quite clearly: Climate protection is an obligation and cannot be discharged with a signature or with a certification, but must be borne. We must also be able to demand this yes to climate protection, because climate protection will not work in accordance with the Floriani principle: I'm for that when it happens elsewhere. – We will not be able to make that happen. I think the concept of the Federal Government is a very, very happy one: We have combined all the keys to success in the Federal Ministry, because we have not only the environment, climate and energy, but above all infrastructure. With regard to the development of the power grid, we have the possibilities in the ministry, and I think that is very, very essential. This also applies to the area of rail. What is now available in the budget for additional measures for the expansion of rail in Austria is huge, and that has not been done for a long time. A small example: In the past, under the managing director of the ÖBB – Christian Kern, who still knows him – the loading stations of Rail Cargo Austria Recycled. We need to move forward, we need to get more freight on the rail. On the question of the road, too, we see that the CO2 balances are much lower when traffic is liquid. In other words, we must not view road projects in principle as evil and negatively modest, but we must see that we are bringing about smooth traffic. I would particularly like to address the S 8 in Marchfeld or also the Lobau Tunnel in Vienna, which could save a lot of CO2 if we could develop sophisticated traffic control systems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can come to the end: I think it is an essential issue, and that is why it has moved so many citizens. In the 1960s, there was the great East-West conflict between the USA and Russia. At that time, the situation was such that states in the Cold War are faced with thematically, and today there are often different views that are facing each other, not even between states or nations, but rather in the social groups. In 1963, John F. Kennedy said something that, as I believe, should also be a guiding principle for climate protection, far beyond the limits of environmental policy. He said at the time – in relation to the Cold War, but I think that will also be possible to apply to climate policy: “For in the end, the fact is that we are all inhabitants of this small planet, which is in the deepest joint bond. We all breathe the same air, all of us lie at the heart of the future of our children and we are all mortal."
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1938	Mrs Julia Elisabeth spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e1962	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! “Whoever wants the world to remain the way it is, he doesn’t want it to remain.” – On our earth it gets hotter and hotter, the polar caps melt, huge ice slabs – and I mean huge ice slabs, only in September an ice slab as big as Paris fell from the mainland – plunges into the sea, the sea level rises, and entire nation states, island states, are literally preparing for its downfall. Every day we destroy habitat. Each year, an area as large as Ireland becomes a desert. The first official climate refugees have already received asylum due to the destruction of their livelihood. Many hundreds of thousands will follow if the ground under the feet simply becomes uninhabitable. In the sea there is now more plastic than fish, and we can see how species of animals that have lived there for thousands of years are dying out. Our ecosystems are becoming more and more uneven. Who wants the world to stay the way it is now, doesn't want it to stay. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and Deputies El-Nagashi and Lukas Hammer.]] “We feel the impact of the climate crisis already now!” – This is what the operators of the climate people’s desire on the homepage write quite rightly, all of this is happening now. This does not happen to future generations sometime, we will be able to say in 30 years: Yeah, here was once a glacier. The world around us, Austria around us is changing. We experience extreme weather events, much more floods, more wall drains. We are experiencing more and more pests in the forest against which we have to fight. We are experiencing more and more crop failures, we generally experience less yield in our fields – for example, we are thinking of the sugar beet over which we are only here recently. have spoken: Work closures are being discussed precisely because of these conditions! This is also about jobs, about security of supply, about all of this now, and we are already paying for it: 1 billion euros a year cost us the damage caused by the climate crisis. And now on the question of who actually pays it, and this above all when compared to who causes these damage that we experience every day: We know that rich people are heating up the climate crisis. According to the new Oxfam study of this September, we know that the richest 10 percent of the world's population are responsible for more than half of the total CO2 emissions! We know – that is not imaginable – that a few, a handful of corporations emit more CO2 than entire continents! We know that our environment and, above all, our resources are being exploited every day because anyone deserves money with it. Someone, a small group of people, deserves just there, makes profits, but the damage we all pay. We have been experiencing this in climate policy for decades, and this is an immense injustice that we must finally change. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The climate crisis is the social issue of our time. In Austria too, low-earners pay more for climate damage than server servants. In addition, this budget, which has been presented, will not in any way change who is most asked for the cash. Climate popular desire is also taking up this. Those initiators say it needs a socially just climate protection. I think that's exactly what it is: We need social justice and we need climate justice – at the end of the day both are the same. I would like to thank the initiators and initiators of climate action and the almost 400,000 people who signed it. As members of the Committee on the Environment, we received numerous e-mails. I read them all through yesterday, before I wrote this speech. No one wants us to raise some small budget pot by a little money, no one demands that we turn on a small wheel. All the emails I have received demand that we finally act in the light of the crisis ahead of us, that we act here in this House in such a way that we finally take this climate crisis seriously – all that I have mentioned earlier. Who wants the world to stay the way it is now, he simply doesn't want it to stay! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We should finally appreciate this in this House. At the end of the day, I will be implementing it. – Thanks to almost 400,000 people! Now we have to try to put all these points into practice. Some of them will need a lot of discussion, will also need deeper solutions, otherwise we could implement immediately, we could decide here tomorrow. I promise that as SPÖ – together with the initiators of the climate people’s desire, which will certainly continue to put pressure on us – we are here in charge of pouring the demands into applications. We are already putting the important demands into writing, and we can promise that the issue is important to us, that we will take popular desire seriously and that we will hopefully discuss it for a very long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2044	Next speaker is MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2069	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This debate on climate demand also gives me the opportunity to respond to climate demand on the one hand, on the other hand to explain the basic direction and the fundamental position of the Freedom Party in terms of climate, energy and environmental policy on the other. I shall also deal with one thing or another, Mr President, which has been mentioned. From our point of view, climate policy, including the argumentation, is very much influenced by fear. We just heard: The world will go down and things like that. This is too dogmatic in many areas of freedom for us. You'll soon be in the corner of the climate liars. I address my speech to all those who are interested in illuminating this important subject in fact and also to put an end to actions, to question causalities, if-then-combinations, and to think things over, especially – and this is particularly important to me – with regard to the impact on the economic and industrial location of Europe and Austria. She's addressed to me. The demands of the climate people's desire sound very good or quite good at first sight, but you have to look closely at them: If the right to climate protection in the Constitution is required to be subordinated to everything else, then it is overwhelming for us freeman in the case of Weitem, because this right also implies the obligation for us as legislators to subordinate anything else to that goal. That's not our access. Our access is that: Climate policy yes, but balanced! Several objectives must be achieved at the same time as possible. One goal is, of course, a reasonable changeover to renewable energy sources in particular, but we must not forget security of supply and we must not forget the feasibility and the economy. We consider this freedom of choice in climate and energy policy to be a reasonable climate policy with a sense of mind – and not to take an overlying goal to which everything else has to be subordinated. As a Freedom Party, we are also the party of the social market economy – in principle the free market economy, the performance-oriented market economy, but with a strong social suspension through our good social security system. If we take a general look at this climate people's desire and also the climate discussion, we have to find that all the very strong ideological components and plan economic components have. These are all interventions in the free market economy, if only climate-friendly behaviour is rewarded or climate-damaging behaviour is punished et cetera, and the whole thing is also combined with large redistributions – as Mr. Herr has just said: The rich, the rich are indebted to everything, and we have to redistribute it now. [[Abg. Lord:... the little man's party?]] – That has nothing to do with it. – We don't play with Freemans! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It goes even further, as you can see when you look at the popular desire closely: It is called for that in the implementations Councils should be responsible for this – in other words, councils, in Russian: Soviets. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] This is entirely beyond our democratic understanding. Then who determines the councils? – It is likely that members of civil society or those who behave in accordance with climate conditions may participate in these Councils. So, as far as the Soviets are concerned, you want to have a public of the Council, I believe that history has shown us that such experiments have not been particularly successful, especially not economically successful, nor have they been successful in terms of human rights and freedom, and not at all as far as environmental and climate policy is concerned, because the largest stench factories are known to have been found in the former Eastern block. So that can't be the way. Our path is a reasonable climate and energy policy with a sense of mind. We can discuss this – here we are – and not only discuss it, but also take measures when it comes to the pollution of the seas by plastic, microplastics. However, one must also say that of the ten largest rivers that contribute to this, there is no one in Europe. This means that others also have to contribute to it. By the way: As far as the addition of greenhouse gas emissions is concerned, everything is beautiful and good. The European Parliament is in the process of rising from originally minus 20 percent to minus 60 percent. In the Clean Energy package already minus 40 percent have been decided by 2030. That's what we're doing. This is a backpack that, in fact, the economy and industry have to bear. They're wearing it too, but I'm telling you one thing: The pitcher goes to the well for so long until it breaks. At some point, we have to end this process, because in the end we are seriously damaging our economic location in global competition. The Chinese, the Americans don't join them at all, they laugh in the fists and say: You Europeans, just keep going, take care of our clean air; we're whistling it and driving you economically around your ears! What does that mean? – Jobs will be lost. I am addressing the German automotive industry. This is not just about the German automotive industry, because we know we have Zig, Ten, Hundreds of thousands of jobs in the Austrian supplier industry. We're putting these in danger by making the rucksackerl more and more difficult. They say they don't help. – Of course, they contribute something: The EU has also decided to reduce CO2 emissions by 15 per cent by 2025 for new registrations of motor vehicles, which you know, by 37.5 per cent by 2030. So do. It is not as if nothing would be done on the part of the automotive industry! There's enough going to be done, but again: The pitcher goes to the well for so long until it breaks. Last word to the ÖVP Economic Party: As has been said, this request has been put forward in the European Parliament. Mrs. von der Leyen needs to give herself a profile somehow now and says: Yeah, we're making the funny addition to minus 60 percent. This has already been voted in the European Parliament, and our group has voted against for the reasons I have explained. On the sides of the ÖVP, there was a cracking censure and even provocative vote – so I do not understand that at the ÖVP Economic Party. The prostituency was that of the well-known parliamentarian Karas. This does not work for me: to speak differently in Brussels and in Austria. In conclusion, I will: Climate and energy policy with home mind, but – and I end with August Wöginger – at the moment, please, the most important issue is that there is work and that jobs are not lost! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2123	The next speaker is Mr Lukas Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We all, especially the members of the Committee on the Environment, have received in recent weeks many emails from committed people who wanted to remind us of our historical responsibility regarding climate protection. I would like to read to you from an e-mail of a citizen who has two daughters just like me and whose message therefore touched me particularly: “Every evening when I bring them to bed, this fear comes up in me. The fear that we won't make it anymore. We already feel it everywhere: Heat periods, droughts, floods and species deaths. All of this is just a prelude to an announcing climate disaster, which massively endangers our lives and, above all, our children's lives. If we do not manage to prevent this climate crisis, my daughters will live in a Vienna in 30 years, where it has more than 47 degrees in summer. Drying periods will also lead to water shortages in many countries, and old people and children will die of heat and air pollution, including in Austria. In other months, heavy rains and floods will paralyze many areas and cause immense damage. Until then, the Arctic will be ice-free, as will most, including domestic, glaciers. The Amazons and other rainforests have transformed from the Earth's most important air filters into dry steppe landscapes. All coral reefs of the earth will have disappeared and millions of species of animals and plants will have died out in the sea and on land. [...] When I think about such a future for my daughters, I have tears in my eyes – tears of fear, tears of despair, but also tears of anger because I know that we can prevent this terrible future. We have already invented all the technical and political instruments to prevent such a disaster." That's what a citizen writes to me, and it touched me very much, as I said. For me, like all the signatures of the climate protection people's desire, this is, in particular, a task for all of us here in Parliament. I would like to begin by thanking the initiators of the climate people's desire and all the many volunteer helpers. In such a time it was really not easy to keep a popular desire running and collect signatures: There is a pandemic that took a lot of public attention; there were computer and IT panels – including the Ministry of the Interior –; and then at the end of June the week of registration, after a lockdown, many people stayed at home, because they rather did not want to stand in the queue with other people at the municipal office. The result is that 380,950 people have signed this climate-popular desire. - Congratulations on this! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank all the people in Austria who have signed this popular desire. For us, this is an assignment addressed to us, and my dear colleague, Kassinger, that is not about ideology! In principle, it is only one thing that can be summarized as follows: the demands of this people of climate change and all the young people who still go to the streets every Friday: Make the hell of what climate science says so that this earth remains inhabitable! It's nothing else, it's not ideology; it's just about saying: Don't drive against the wall we're heading for! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The turquoise-green coalition has also committed itself to this very goal, that we want to be climate neutral in Austria by 2040. Some of the demands in this climate change population are already being implemented, such as a guaranteed financing of the energy transition. We have just talked about the budget, in which there will be enough budget for the heat transition in particular. At the end of this year, we will adopt a renewable development law, which will provide 1 billion euros per year from 2021 onwards, so that we can reach 100 percent of eco electricity by 2030. Other measures we are currently working on are known: The Federal Energy Efficiency Act, a new climate protection law, an eco-social tax reform and, of course, a reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies. We know, however, that it is moving slowly – for many it is too slow – and we know that of course we need to do more. We will therefore look into the environmental committee in detail and in detail at the demands of this climate change people's desire, and as the chairman of the Environment Committee, it is very important to me and I will be very much committed to conducting these discussions transparently and publicly. We will also invite experts from science to include scientific expertise in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, so that these experts can go through the demands with us, and we will take sufficient time to do so. At the end of the day, it will be about whether we act in the sense of popular desire and in the sense of climate science or not – that is what we are measured. Let us take advantage of the opportunity offered to us by the people of the climate and we will meet our responsibilities here in the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2236	Next item is the report by Mr Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2260	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I want to start with a thank you: 380 590 times thanks for the support of the climate people's desire for those citizens who have made it possible for us to discuss such an important issue today! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that the most important point we need to be aware of now is that popular desires do not have a very high priority in the assessment of the Austrian population. It is up to us Members of this House to prove the opposite and to make more out of popular desire than what it is now, namely, very concrete future projects in the form of legislation. I'd like to put it right there. I listened very carefully to my previous speakers, I listened to Mr. Kassinger – that was a piece of melody of the eighties. I also listened to my colleague, Mr, that was class struggle, which was probably melody of the 1970s. From my point of view, however, our great task is now to compose the music of the future and to look to the future with visions. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... is 200 years old!]] We do not win the fight against climate change by playing out one group against the other, especially the Austrian economy against an environmental awareness in the population. The great task of our actions will be to make a clear and clear statement between climate policy and economic policy. The truth – and the truth is, of course, always a difficult word – in this matter is that it is much easier to shape the future with the economy and not against the economy, because there are incredibly great opportunities in this transformation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If we succeed in building a climate-neutral society, that means that in 15, 20 years we have a completely different mobility than we can imagine today. If we have achieved climate neutrality by the year 2040, this means that all households heat and cool differently than we can imagine today. If we have a climate-neutral society by the year 2040, this means that the products we consume are differently packed and partly produced differently. Industrial enterprises, which are very successful in Austria today, are likely to be even more successful because they are already using the latest technologies. These are pictures that can make a lot of hope – the problem we have today is that this hope is not supported by the political side. We – I did not arrive in the present with the melody of the 1970s and the 1980s – even with the turquoise-green politics. You know, If you really want a change, if you really want to create a climate-neutral future, it takes two things – it takes much more things, but two really concrete – that we could do in this House today. The first is that we no longer finance all climate and environmental subsidies, in total, EUR 4.7 billion per year. However, the ÖVP would like to continue to do so. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] At this point it is also quite clear that: It is clear to us that such a change also has an impact on agriculture. For us NEOS, this is an opportunity, together with farmers, to shape the future. This is not against agriculture. The second major point – which is even bigger and is currently still in the process – is a corresponding CO2 price. It is about the 'polluter pays' principle: If we want to become climate-neutral, those who produce and place on the market, and of course those who consume, must pay the price for it, and not the public. Otherwise, the incentive is simply missing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I hear from many people who consume, I hear from companies that produce, now is the right time to take advantage of the opportunity. That is why many thanks to the signers of the climate people's desire! We NEOS support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2328	The word is now Joachim Schnabel. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2352	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the monitors! High house! But above all you, dear 380 590 supporters of the climate people's desire! Currently, the Coronavirus overshadows and exaggerates all our political action, economic development and public reporting. The virus has brought another crisis into the second line: the climate crisis, the crisis that will have a much more long-term impact on society, on us and on our habitat. Until a few uneducated people recognize the fact that climate change has been caused human beings, progressed and can only be stopped by changes in our system. The Paris Agreement opened in 2015 for a sustainable course correction. I am a father of three children, my youngest was a year old in 2015. If we write the year 2040, he will be 25 years old, as old as our youngest Members here in the house. As a government group, we have set the goal of Austria being climate-neutral in 2040. To children, they say, you can see how time goes by. This means that I and everyone will understand how soon the Austrian, European and also the global system will need to be remodelled in a climate-friendly way. I would also like to thank Mr Bernhard and my previous speakers, the initiators of climate change and civil society for their commitment and commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Changes always cause fears and discomfort. There will be not only winners of restructuring. All of this will call for our society as a whole, so the acceptance and cooperation of the people in Austria is so important. The supporters and supporters are not only Forders, but I wish they were multipliers for the necessary actions that need to be put. Many of you are probably a term for my Styrian politician Dr. Josef Riegler. Already in 1987, over 30 years ago, he set up the eco-social market economy for the Austrian People's Party. With its ideas and objectives, we as the People's Party have always and long ago taken a future-oriented position in environmental and climate protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our government, with the government programme “Out of Responsibility for Austria” and the budget that has already been strongly debated today at the federal level, is already responding to many concerns of the climate people’s desire. Together with the coalition partner, as a People's Party, we focus on the eco-social market economy with the new technologies and the new opportunities and set new standards in the field of climate protection and renewable energy – for example in the energy transition. The energy transition is an essential part of popular desire and climate saving. With the Renewable Extension Act, we re-establish the framework conditions to get out of fossil energy sources and supply Austria with 100 percent eco electricity. However, it will not be easy to produce 27 terawatt hours, of which 11 terawatt hours of solar current. Although the plants are then to be implemented as a priority on roof surfaces and are better promoted – it depends on which calculation model you use – we will also need 7 000 hectares of photovoltaic cells in the landscape. 7,000 hectares, which means an average of 3.3 hectares per municipality. These plants must be built in conjunction with the agricultural food supply – we must not only build them on the best soils – and the landscape must be built as a tourist asset. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The federal states are called upon to create a rapid market economy framework in order to implement the right spatial areas together with the municipalities. The term house mind, ladies and gentlemen, is used very inflationaryly precisely in these times, probably because the word house mind applies to so many fields of action. But this is exactly what it will need to do – especially with the economy! – transfer the economy in the medium term to implement climate change. We must not rush into individual measures that are overburdening the economy, because then climate saving becomes a source of prosperity. The Austrian economy and industry only declared this Monday to be an active part and part of the solution. Together we must use this opportunity for existing and new jobs, for new jobs, for economic fields and innovations in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because today so much has been discussed about the communities, quite briefly: On the municipal levels a lot happens: Climate alliance communities, e5 municipalities, KEM regions, clear! regions to many great individual initiatives – a lot has been done for years and decades. I would like to highlight a single initiative and a single person, and I thought that because my colleague Brandstätter always takes a book, I would take one with me. [[The speaker keeps the book “Climate Change – Stop and Reverse” up to date.]] The author is from my neighboring community, from my region, Prof. Dr. August Raggam, scientist and successful entrepreneur. He describes in this book how it is possible to respond to climate change. I would like to thank him for the many people who have been working for years and decades to save our climate. I am looking forward to the discussion in the Committee on the Environment with the experts and – in a change in the government programme – I would like to include “the best of both worlds” with: All together for the best of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2462	Mrs Kollross. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2486	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Now I have seen that, unfortunately, Mrs. Colleaguer is not here, but I still have to put it on, and maybe she can be executed. Since it has already done this for the second time today and unfortunately no actual correction is possible during the debate on the reply to the question – ah, because it is already, thank you very much – I would like to correct this very quickly: [[Abg. Double farmer draws attention to himself through Winken]] You are always in the hands of the municipal finances only open households of the KDZ, and today you have even gone so far as to say that Trumau is the most intransparent municipality because we do not register there. What you have forgotten is that it is a private platform where no one is obliged to register. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] What you have forgotten is that each municipality must publish the billing and the proposal; and what you have forgotten to say is that this open budget only formulates a few key figures and nothing else. [[New call of the abg. Double farmer.]] There are a few key figures: how much is spent on education, and nothing else. In the case of a budget and an estimate, the key figures are still the actual expenditure. But if you think that an internet platform with a few key figures is more transparent than an entire budget where you see what everything is actually spent on, then of course it is not easy for you to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Double farmer.]] Now on the subject: A warm thanks to the initiators of popular desire, thanks to the helpers, thanks to all those who signed. I believe that it is very, very important that, in addition to the parliamentary process, we also have an extra-parliamentary process on climate protection, because – and I am right for everyone who has formulated it so far – that is really one of the essential issues for the future. Thanks also to those who have sent us e-mails in the last few days and weeks – it will probably have affected several, it has also affected me – and so have made known to us once again their commitment and their call for them to do so. I believe that what is important and what you also realize is that climate change must also be reflected in the budget. Of course, the colleagues of the Greens are right, there are first positive steps, and one must also acknowledge that there is something going on – before all things when you look at the coalition partner – and that it really goes in the right direction in part. As mayor of the country, however, I would like to remove an area that is very important to me personally, and that is public transport. I think it's about not just discussing this 1-2-3 ticket. This is very important, and we do not need to debate it at all, but at least it is equally important for local transport to be connected to the place from which the train departs at all. We all know that we have the problem in the individual rural regions and that the 1-2-3 ticket is not a solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we don't make it, Indeed, if we do not manage to get public from the communities – we know that there are many communities that are concerned with this – to the district capital, then we will not really reduce car traffic. The district capital is still an essential element in each district. There are still the bra, the financial office, the labour market service, the workers' chamber, the Chamber of Commerce and so on and so on. There are a lot of communities whose inhabitants are not there at all publicly, or 1 hour, 1.5 hours on the road, because they – with us they say so – drive around the cross with the church so that they can get there at all. I believe that it is important that, above all, in the districts, in the regions, local transport should be expanded, only then the 1-2-3 ticket makes much more sense, because then it is not only those who are already on the South Railway or West Railway, but also those who have to commute every day and who have nothing left but to drive by car. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2570	Next speaker is Member Peter Schmiedlechner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2595	Climate action: The climate concerns us all and affects us every day. Each initiative is to be welcomed, but the exchange rate applies: Climate protection with home mind. What benefits will it be to the climate if we implement measures and rules in Austria that destroy jobs? What benefits will the climate benefit if some, due to the high climate targets, rely on nuclear energy, because it is seen as climate neutral? We reject the nuclear power to generate energy, without exception. It is also a bit strange and, of course, I also hope that in the Environment Committee, the Euratom People's Desire is given exactly the same recognition as that climate people's desire, because I think this is just as important. Another criticism of this climate popular desire is the creeping centralization and the erodement of federalism. This popular desire, under the guise of climate protection, requires a concentration of all decisions in one hand. The climate accounting court sounds less transparent to me, rather to newly invented parallel authorities. On the way to climate dictatorship: The introduction of a climate service, which may decide whether a law may be passed, means the end of parliamentaryism. A right to climate protection really means the subordination of the community under climate objectives. Therefore, everything should be subordinated to this goal. We see this goal very critically. Climate protection is also important to us, but our democracy must not be restricted. Climate protection is already making a big contribution to climate protection. With the promotion of regionality, we could be able to maintain the climate with a sustainable sense of mind. A sustainable and gentle economy should again be given greater importance. Regionally instead of globally, it would protect the most and best. Finally, on this occasion I would also like to stress the benefits of agriculture for climate protection. More CO2 is stored in the soil, forest, wood and wood products than in the atmosphere. The farmers therefore make an important contribution to climate protection with their work. Unfortunately, this is all too often forgotten in the debate and agriculture is very often presented as a climate sinister. Ladies and gentlemen, a one-sided, climate-oriented approach is not correct. We must return to the facts and express our support for climate protection with home mind. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: Housework or Facts?]] As the last sentence, I can tell you – this is an old saying: Fear of death has also died!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2634	Mrs Astrid Rössler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2659	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Seers at home in front of the screens! At first glance, it is an instrument of direct democracy to start a popular desire and to collect signatures. However, this population of climate change is different in several points. It is remarkable in its effect, but also in its political dimension. Civil society takes up a topic, makes it present, and what has so to speak brought climate protection to the streets with Fridays for future, and has actually pushed into the next government programme, now brings climate change people’s desire into parliament and parliamentary debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The initiators of the climate people's desire have succeeded in formulating a broad platform, an alliance of a common social concern, and it is up to us – and this is a very important step in dealing with this popular desire – whether we are putting the concerns and demands of the initiators and all those who have signed it into the rubble of the political debate and, if necessary, endangering it or whether we are able to lead this broad social consensus to the protection of our climate together to a good conclusion and thus to a joint decision. This seems so important to me, therefore, because 400 000 people who have signed this time and who have shown how important it is to them is a large number of people. We should also take this positive climate change mood as a start. Many of the concerns have already been put into the government programme, not only in the environmental chapter, but also in the areas of housing, finance, economy, work, Europe and tourism. Climate is everywhere because it is not only a task of an environmental ministry, it is because it is the task of an entire government and also a social mission. A government alone will not create climate protection, it is only in social consensus. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank all those who have taken up this difficult and common issue and through their commitment, but above all through their expertise and expertise. by the merger of society as a whole, social organisations and environmental organisations. There are also workers for future, there are Architects for Future, there have been many groups of professionals taking up this topic. It is up to us to bring this commitment and this support to civil society to a good common conclusion here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2713	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Shetty. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2737	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, In principle, climate-disciplinary desires: We have always supported this – that is what our colleague Michi Bernhard has already said. Above all, the demands are broadly consistent with our long-term climate policy demands. Mr Bernhard has also pointed out that the government is not only under the obligation to allocate funds for climate protection, but also to create the long-term structures and make political changes. Let me give you an example: It's great that we have more funds for the bicycle infrastructure. We like that, you should continue to force it. However, the intention and the announcement are not sufficient. The budget shows the hard reality. The SUV driver in Mödling still receives more public funds and more public subsidies than the cyclists in, especially if this SUV is still subsidized and driving with the diesel that we inexplicably support. Mr Bernhard has already said it: We are still spending 4.7 billion euros on environmentally harmful subsidies under Turquoise Green, while increasing the budget for climate and mobility by 0.6 billion euros. I would also like to illustrate how the dimensions are here. [[The speaker holds a table entitled “€4.7 billion of environmentally harmful subsidies” and “€0.6 billion of climate & mobility”, on which two pillars are shown.]] So there is EUR 4.7 billion for environmentally harmful subsidies in the budget, while climate and mobility expenditure is rising by only EUR 0.6 billion. That's like riding with a hand brake and asking to get on to the gas. It won't work! This pillar has to go down, and if it succeeds, one will have to measure the greens. [[pointing to the higher pillar]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I've said this again and again: It was your strategy and your concept to go into these government negotiations, but because you have thrown all the convictions overboard in all other areas, we still have too little in climate protection. Overall, this budget is none of the people most affected by climate change: for us young people. The UGs for the environment, education, research and science together receive a total of 1 billion euros more – that is good that there is more inside. However, since the rulers cannot stop with these unscrupulous election gifts, we are also putting this budget back over 1.6 billion euros in addition to an absolute maritime pension system, which is one of the least sustainable pension systems in the OECD countries. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In other words, today we have heard many lip confessions, much support, but it will need more than just loud support from sides. the government. It needs courageous, systemic reforms and also a climate and generation-friendly pension system. Of course, it also needs an eco-social tax reform, not just the announcement. Millions of people around the world are going to the streets and calling out: Climate Justice Now! We expect this from the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2810	Mr Robert Laimer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2834	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Thanks to the 380 590 people who have supported the climate-popular desire with their signature, also to the more than 1000 volunteer employees, the numerous initiatives as well as the many NGOs and organizations, exemplary the nature lovers, the children's friends, Global 2000, the Vienna Volkshochschulen, Attac, the Archdiocese of Vienna, the environmental consultancy, the folk assistance, the deacony and many more. Not to mention the initiators and carrying pillars of the project such as Fridays for Future or the Chamber of Workers and Greenpeace – thank you all! Thank you for your spirit, thank you very much for your attitude and thank you very much for your wide view! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As a citizen and signatory of the climate people's desire, I also expect – and appeal to the members of the Federal Government – that the content and concerns be taken seriously. Today's orphaned government bank doesn't point to that. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Consider the outcome of popular desire as an order and act accordingly! I also appeal to the Green Party here not to let the ÖVP cook. No more task forces, no further delays and no further excuses, your electorate's motive is: To implement climate and environmental protection! In addition to an extensive package of measures in the field of transport, energy and mobility, Austria should take a step further and take a prominent pioneering role in environmental policy. It would be responsible to anchor climate protection in our red and white-red constitution, even with regard to subsequent generations. Let us put a sign together and take this step into our future! Finally, it is important to me to point out that climate-friendly action must be made possible for all people. Real climate policy combines ecology and social things. Climate protection is not an elitist project, but an egalitarian attitude that must not be determined by the wallet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a community of fate, we must take all people with us and must not leave anyone behind. We must therefore also implement an eco-social tax reform in this context. A first step towards this – a climate bonus – we decide this year: If you drive publicly into work, the climate bonus will in future receive the big one instead of the small flat rate. In combination with the social-democratic project 1-2-3-climate ticket, it will be possible for even more people to go to work by bus or train instead of by car. However, this requires improved public transport to suppliers. All of this is climate protection with social manuscript, which can only be implemented with a collective change of consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2897	Mrs Cornelia Ecker spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2922	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As the last speaker, I would also like to thank the initiators of the climate people's desire and, above all, the 380 000 signers very much. People's desire is a very important instrument for democracy, and I can only encourage everyone and everyone to use this instrument. The current Covid-Pandemy has changed the energy industry in a sustainable way. According to the World Energy Report, the global economic crisis has reduced the consumption of energy by 5 percent and greenhouse gas emissions by even 7 percent. In particular, fossil energy sources such as coal and gas lost in the lockdown are of great importance. It was simply enough renewable energy from sun, water and wind power. According to the International Energy Agency, coal generally loses more and more importance, oil will no longer be present in the quantity we would need in 2030. Therefore, the best time – in order to re-close the circle of climate-popular desires – is now for a real energy transition, but above all for a socially compatible energy transition. The largest CO2 producers must be requested to register in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We now need to invest more in renewable energy forms, clean fuels and well-developed networks. It takes innovative approaches, for example 380 kV lines to enter the earth permanently and do not, as in Salzburg, destroy entire parts of the landscape. In recent weeks as a Member of Parliament, how likely you have contacted all, very many citizens and told me their concerns about climate change. I'm telling you quite honestly, I understand these concerns. Ladies and gentlemen, we only have this one earth! We as decision-makers – that is what I am focusing on the sector of the ÖVP – must do everything we can to ensure that Austria fulfils its important contribution to climate protection. Mr Schnabel has reported how great it is to have the CO2 neutrality in the coalition paper by 2040. I ask you: Why, then, do your ÖVP colleagues vote against it in Brussels? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, climate protection is also part of the ban on glyphosate in Austria. Finally, I look forward to drawing up a good legal basis in November in the Environment Committee, together with the initiators of the climate people’s desire, and to bringing all the ideas for more climate protection into line in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e2980	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I commend the popular desire to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, 348 of the supplements. [[14:30:20]] 2. Point First reading: Popular desire “Smoke – NO” (346 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3013	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Dr Werner Saxinger is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3046	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! You may now wonder why smoking after years of intense discussion is now being dealt with again in plenary session, at Corona times. We really have other problems. – Don’t be afraid, very well-loved spectators, at the ban on smoking is certainly not agitated at this time. That would be absurd, irresponsible and totally unacceptable for me as a doctor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The issue of smoking can be seen for me as so many health-related things in the sense of public health and to protect people completely extraparticipally. I can assure you that in the People's Party, the health of the population has the highest priority. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why do we actually deal with the smoker theme again? – Several people have initiated popular desires, both a popular desire “smoke – NO” and at the same time a popular desire “smoke – YES”. That was the same group with both popular desires. They say that the popular desire signed by more people shows the opinion of the people from the viewpoint of the initiators and that must therefore be supported. The initiators have simulated a referendum practically through two same popular desires, once per, once counter. The registration period was from 22 to 29. June of this year. The popular desire “Smoke – NO” received over 140,000 support, the popular desire “Smoke – YES” over 33,000. “Smoke – NO” has thus won. The supporters of the "Smoke NO" popular desire now argue that the right goes from the people, not from constantly changing governments, and want the Non-Smoker Protection Act to be incorporated into the federal constitution from 1.11.2019. As I said, Since November 2019, this law has been applicable in Austria, which also provides for a comprehensive non-smoker protection for gastronomy. Some details: Those who smoke actively put themselves at great risk of becoming dependent and ill. The toxic substances in cigarette smoke damage when inhaling on their way through the body almost every organ and even influence the genetic information in the body cells. As we all know – but it is good to hear that over and over again – that can trigger different forms of cancer. Lung cancer has even replaced breast cancer in women as cancer with the highest risk of death. The respiratory tracts and the cardiovascular system are particularly affected. 14 000 Austrians die each year from the consequences of smoking. Now, if some say, Whoever smokes, only harms himself!, then be said to them: The freedom of the individual ends where he harms others. It is mainly about passive smoking. Smoking bans in the gastronomy – and this has meant this law – serve human health, proveably save human lives and save the health system a lot of money. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] According to the Austrian Society for Lung Diseases, more than 1,000 deaths per year are caused by passive smoking in Austria. This means that each year there are significantly more deaths due to passive smoking than by road accidents. With regard to passive smoking, let us speak further figures: Passive smoking increases the risk of developing lung cancer by 20 percent. It doubles the risk of asthma. The risk of stroke increases by 80 percent in passive smoking, the risk of coronary heart disease by 20 percent, bronchitis by 30 percent, and the risk of low birth weight by 40 percent. The role of children and young people is also very important in the Non-Smoker Protection Act. Those who start smoking early harm their bodies in a variety of ways. We really don't need to be proud of our smoking rate among 15-year-olds. According to OECD data, it was still 27 percent in 2013. In 1993, it was 30 percent. That is, over a quarter of the young people under 15 smoke – an insanity! Cigarette consumption in locals associated with the exit is associated with adulthood, it appears cool and trendy. We also hope to reduce the number of young smokers' careers with preventive measures. Ladies and gentlemen! The non-smoking protection law, which has been in force since 1.11.2019, is in line with the Austrian people's right to protect against passive smoking and also protects young people. The popular desire “Smoke – NO” of the initiators is now assigned to the Health Committee for further advice at first reading. Without smoke, too, and as Immanuel Kant said, The freedom of the individual ends where the freedom of the other begins. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3131	Mag.a. Karin Greiner is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3155	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Saxinger, I am truly grateful to you for these clear words, and I am delighted with this clear commitment to non-smokers protection and smoking. That was not always the case in your group, and I would like you to find more hearing and weight in your group in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Think of the year 2017! The ban on smoking in the gastronomy, which is now fortunately present – thanks to all the signatorys of this popular desire – was tilted in 2017 under your Federal Chancellor in short with the voices of Blue. Later on, you decided: Well, we're for that. – So the line was very uneven. Since we have now clearly known that we want to protect non-smokers and that we want to protect the non-smokers, I can pick up a point and address a group of people who really need our protection: They're the kids. In your words, you also stressed: Especially children and young people are to be protected, as we have a model effect. Precisely, I'm emphasizing this to 100 percent. Then let me ask you a question: Is there a smoking ban on playgrounds for children? - No! Why not? [[Abg. Hafenecker: Because children are not allowed to smoke!]] – Because the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has so far resisted in this House, which is very unfortunate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I remember – but go, Mr. Zanger, you're still on it: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] In 2018, there was an initiative proposal from us: We want children's playgrounds non-smoking. Unfortunately, you have not known yourself to protect these children, and you all know: Sandboxes on playgrounds have the same ash cups. They're not ashtrays. Tschickstümmel didn't lose anything at the children's playground. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We set up another initiative in May this year. Who was against it? – The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and unfortunately the Greens. A request was postponed in the Health Committee. We only wanted a clear federal legislation on the protection of children at the playground. I wouldn't have expected the greens to do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am now a bit optimistic at the ÖVP thanks to Mr Saxinger. Maybe the next time you start, you'll agree. I expect the Greens to make a clear commitment to protecting our children. Give yourself a back, and join forces as federal legislators to protect children from smoking on playgrounds! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3223	The next speaker is Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3247	Yes, the notic non-smokers keep on blooming again and again. I mean, in the vicinity of a children's playground, which is still in the fresh air, not to smoke, Mrs Greener, I am not saying anything about that now. [[making the so-called windshield wiper movement]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] - Yes, yes! There is always a reproach, one piece after another, and more and more freedom is restricted. You're there at this game with the ÖVP. That's sad. [[New call of the abg. Greiner.]] This issue could also be put under a different title today, namely: Die slowly, then you're dead too, dear host! – a stage piece of the ÖVP in cooperation with the Wirtschaftsbund over several years. There has been a very reasonable situation: Smokers and non-smokers together in the locals. The smokers were separated, on the one hand, by structural measures, then, of course, there were appropriate investments by the host in ventilation systems et cetera, then it went once, until the smoke was finally turned off. The hosts have stayed on their investment costs – with them you really do what you want. In between you planted them: Every local has to be accessible, the electronic registers have prescribed them – that is almost nothing – then the Allergens Regulation has come – everything just plantation – and finally the total ban on smoking, and now it is in the corona measures with the locks. You know what? – You can actually grapple with the breaks, you don’t have to put them in front of you, because no one has any more desire to go to a place, to entertain and to take care of social life. You've taken the people's lust! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] You have taken confidence in people, they are all depressive, and they are responsible, among other things, for these masks, your decrees, in which no one knows himself. [[Renewal cheerfulness at the ÖVP]] People all walk around more apathically. Please take a look at civil society outside: You don't see any laughter with people, no more joy, but that's exactly what we need. [[Abg. Brandweiner: I believe the FPÖ has nothing to laugh about at the moment!]] You have already found your vaccine in truth: This vaccine's called fear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of giving courage to the people, you get scared. Instead of creating confidence, you're instilling fear in the people. Instead of creating hope, you're instilling fear in the people. That's the sadness of the whole situation. And the worst still comes: In the case of the little ones, it is already beginning to be with the children in the kindergartens, in the public schools: They must wear masks and swallow their own bacillen instead of being allowed to breathe fresh air freely. The worst thing is: They do not allow them the proximity that children so urgently need among themselves. She calls it Social Distancing. This is an expression which I would like to suggest almost as an unword of the year. I haven't heard such a horrific thing yet! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How poor do you let our children grow up? From the first day in school, she traumatizes her almost for her whole life. How should they ever become normal again with the masks et cetera? This is politics of the social cold of the ÖVP – I am not talking about the Greens at all. You're feeling, heartless and rainless, just like your chancellor when he's standing here! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] [[Mr Baumgartner and Mr Höfinger.]] I haven't seen anyone so emotionally – a person who doesn't show any direction when it comes to people's concerns and concerns in this country. You divide society apart. Whoever today does not wear a mask – for this he can have a medical justification or not – is already evil anyway. You made the same thing with the smokers: The non-smoker is good, the smoker is evil. The host is the pride of the nation, and the ÖVP is the grave of the dead.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3362	Mr Zanger, I have to give you a call for order for the wiper towards Mr Greiner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Greiner spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3404	Mr Zanger said in his statement that I want to ban smoking near playgrounds. My colleague, I'm actually correcting: I want a smoking ban on playgrounds.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3444	Mr Ralph Schalmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3469	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! I can't quite figure out what just happened out here in front of me. I believed we were talking about smoking people’s desire, that is, the “smoke – NO” people’s desire, and not government measures that are necessary. But it doesn't matter, I'd like to talk about smoking people's desire right now, just about the subject. [[Abg. Hafenecker: I would be interested in where the Greens...!]] Where do we start? – Let’s start there: When I got into the world, I was born into a smoking family – my mother heavy smoker, my father heavy smoker, my grandparents heavy smokers. I've lived my life smoking, and I think it won't surprise anyone here if I tell you that I started smoking myself at the age of 14. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] My first cigarette was – I don't want to advertise a particular brand now – of a very strong brand, and I was the Cool, so to speak, because I was the only one who didn't have to cough at his first cigarette – because I was used to it because I knew it from my childhood, as it is with the smoke. Then I smoked for 24 years. I had times when I smoked three packs a day – I am not necessarily proud of that – and I have calculated these days that I probably smoked 170,000 cigarettes in my life – 170,000 cigarettes! That was my personal decision, that was my business, but with thousands of these 170,000 cigarettes I also damaged other people without asking them. That was not their decision, but they were just sitting next to me – perhaps in the coffee shop or in the local – or perhaps the waitress or waitress who served me there. They couldn't decide if they wanted to be hurt by my smoke. In any case, these were several thousand of these 170,000 cigarettes, perhaps even 100,000 of them. That is also the reason why I find this initiative to prohibit smoking in the gastronomy in principle. I think this is right, and we also see in Ireland, in Italy, in part also in Germany and in other countries where this is much, much longer than in Austria, that it has not led to the breakdown of the gastronomy. That's not what it's all about, dear colleague. [[towards Abg. Vocal]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] Whether the whole thing, as demanded by this popular desire, needs to be lifted into the constitutional order, can be discussed. We will have this discussion anyway in the next few weeks. I personally do not necessarily believe it, but, of course, I am convinced of good arguments. But what I know very well is that in this country we need more and more prevention work, that we have to take more, much more care that fewer people smoke and start smoking, that we also need to support people if they want to stop smoking – much more, much more than we have done up to now. We will hopefully be able to agree in the next few weeks on the fact that we are putting in place some good measures – perhaps also involving institutions such as the Federal Youth Office, so that we can talk to young people in the prevention work at an eye. I would like that, and that is my intention for the next few weeks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3521	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3546	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can understand the initiators of popular desire a lot if they want to have the ban on smoking in the Constitution, because they never know in Austria: This is where ÖVP members who have introduced the ban on smoking are sitting. The same persons have abolished the ban on smoking by a decision here, and the same persons have reintroduced it. That there are then citizens who say: I don't know what they think next, maybe they'll do it again!, I can understand. When Mr Saxinger stands out here and says things I share, namely that my freedom ceases where the other begins, I must say to him: It was not possible to say this in the ÖVP three years ago without losing the function of the health speaker. You can ask colleagues Smolle what exactly happened. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: He wasn't a health speaker at all!]] – Yes, but he would have been, but before he entered the National Council, he said he was for the ban on smoking, and then it became Gaby Black. [[Abg. Steinacker: What you know!]] So he opened up a career opportunity for Gaby. To the FPÖ, which always claims that the smoking ban breaks the gastronomy: I think if you ask a hostess today what his problems are, it's not the smoking ban, but it's barter hours at 10 a.m., pronounced by some wildly-wronged ÖVP country leaders who believe that people belong home to the living room, and it's hours of silence at 5 p.m., expressed by national leaders who can no longer be surpassed in their helplessness. So if you want to break down the gastronomy, you do what Haslauer, Platter and Wallner now perform. You have to imagine: In Vorarlberg shuttle buses with young people drive to Switzerland because they drop down the roller shops in Vorarlberg at 10 am. That means, of course, for the waiter, that he must say at least half past ten: Please take the last round and then drink quickly, because I still have to take off and then throw you out! – So what is breaking down the gastronomy is certainly not the ban on smoking, what destroys the gastronomy, are the overrun measures that the state governments and the Federal Government are putting in place in these days.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3600	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I assign the popular desire 346 of the supplements to the Health Committee. [[14:49:41]] 3rd. Point First reading: People’s desire to “transform Asyl Europe-wide” (345 d.e.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3634	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Karl Mahrer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3664	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! It is only a few days ago that we celebrated the 100th anniversary of our federal constitution – and today we experience that this Constitution is not only an important historical document, but also brings lively discussion and public participation to our High House through an initiative that has begun outside Parliament. Article 41(1) 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act and the People's Demand Act make it possible to debate the issue of asylum in Europe because of the corresponding popular desire here in Parliament. This initiative was the first of its kind and thus the first popular desire to be registered as popular desires after the entry into force of the 2018 Volksbehrengesetz. It seems that the initiators are concerned with a more solid and fair financial distribution of expenditure on asylum within Europe, I would say: a kind of asylum financial compensation. More than 135 000 entries, ladies and gentlemen, indicate that this issue is important, and the entries also support the fact that the subject of people in our country is moving and they want to participate actively in the debate on solutions. Even if, of course, I do not want to go ahead with the parliamentary process at this first reading today, as security spokesperson of the new People's Party, I would like to take the opportunity to recall some of the principles on asylum and migration from my point of view. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has already made a very important contribution in recent years. Some 200 000 asylum applications have been submitted since 2015, 120 000 asylum applications have been positive for those affected, and under a rule of law, 120 000 people in Austria have been granted protection, including around 55 000 minors and 25 000 women. In the light of this fact, I say: Protection money alone cannot be the overall solution. Rather, it is a question of developing and implementing a comprehensive, European, sustainable approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for new approaches to a crisis-proof system that will meet the challenges of global migration in the future. I should just like to remind you once again of the essential points that lie at my heart: the distinction between asylum and labour migration, the fight against tow crime, the protection of European external borders and, most importantly, the prevention of the death of people who are on their way through continents or through the sea, effective assistance on the ground, but also effective assistance and development work in the countries of origin – and, I do not wish to mention this, for those people who are allowed to live by a rule of law in Austria: Promote integration honestly, but also honestly. The European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, adopted on 23 March. A proposal for a European Migration Strategy was presented in September. Some of these proposals are quite positive, such as external border protection, repatriation, but also cooperation with third countries. On some points, however, there is a need for improvement and change, and precisely because Austria is at the top of the protection countries, we are convinced that the distribution of migrants cannot be the solution. I have great hope that at the end of the day it will succeed in achieving a pan-European solution that reflects our attitude in the interests of all concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the whole issue, ladies and gentlemen, must be assessed in connection with this current European debate. We must also remember that it is not only a question of the general assessment of the asylum and migration strategy and thus the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, but also of the Ministry of Finance, the Foreign Minister, but also the Federal Minister for the EU and the Constitution in the Federal Chancellery. Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking forward to the committee being assigned to the subject-matter discussion with all parties involved, with the initiators and with you, the honourable Member of the House. I think we can make a contribution to the living constitution and to the living parliamentary democracy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3739	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party (Christian Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3764	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I would like to thank the initiators of the popular desire to implement “Asyl Europe-right” once again – a thank you to all the initiators of popular desires that we are dealing with this afternoon. Just one comment on the edge: I think it's a little a pity: Since several hundred thousand people in Austria sign a popular desire – and I think it would have been a sign of appreciation if at least one member of the government had followed the discussion here and had also been there at the first reading. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amesbauer.]] The popular desire to “implement Asyl Europe-wide” has signed 135,000 citizens, thus supporting them – and yes, it deals with a subject that is probably one of the major challenges for European policy, as well as the global issue of climate warming. I agree that there will be a need for a European solution on this issue, and that requires more Europe and no less Europe. That is why it bothers and offends me so much that the attitude of our Federal Government on this issue is so counterproductive. We need pan-European solutions, not to withdraw from national positions. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the initiators that we need to think about how we achieve a fair distribution of asylum seekers in Europe, but we need a set of measures and not a single one. I believe that a foundation should be that we in Europe agree on a uniform asylum system and on a uniform asylum procedure. That would be a very important step. We need rapid and legal asylum procedures, and the control of external borders, of course, is part of that, and yes, fair quotas and a distribution in Europe, and we need a mechanism to regulate this. I'm not sure if money is always the only thing that can be targeting. I don't think it should be the case that you're saying fines, because they're again emphasizing the negative side. If, then, there must be positive incentives – a link to a European Structural Funds would, for example, be a positive opportunity to create an incentive and support those regions in Europe which are more affected by asylum seekers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am looking forward, like Mr Mahrer, to a discussion in the Committee on the Interior after the assignment. I think the exchange with the initiators is also very important. But it is not a purely security issue. If a topic is assigned to the Ministry of the Interior, the Committee on the Interior, then it immediately gets the stamp of security. However, I believe that asylum is not a security or uncertainty issue – it is a human rights issue and a European issue. That is why we need not only the presence of the Minister of the Interior, but also, at least, the Minister responsible for Europe, is very important in order to enable a broad discussion and, accordingly, to give the initiators and, above all, the signatorys the necessary appreciation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3822	Mr Hannes Amesbauer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3848	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! People's desire is an important direct democratic institution, and every popular desire that reaches the obstacle also deserves proper parliamentary treatment. The current popular desire to “implement Asyl Europe-rightly” has received 135 000 signatures. It is essentially a question of deducting from current EU contribution payments those costs of asylum, which exceed Austria's just EU share, until an EU-wide solidarity asylum system, including asylum financial compensation and a functioning management of the EU's external borders, is established. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] The management of the EU's external borders, provided that this means external border protection, naturally agrees with us. But it's a little bit of a devil in the detail. It argues that there is a lack of solidarity between some EU countries in the field of asylum. This is already a signal to me that the alarm bells are ringing because, as a Freedom Party, we certainly do not want an EU-wide solidarity system, for solidarity in this context always means quotas, forced distribution, forced allocation, and we certainly do not want to do so. Also, this asylum financial compensation can be to our detriment, because there could be criminal payments if we did not comply with any quotas, then there should be them. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to better manage and distribute migration flows, but to stop them. We also want to stop the dirty business of the tugs and the dubious asylum NGOs, who roam around everywhere. We want to maintain our own national ability to act in the field of asylum, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The situation is quite dramatic, and where this can lead if you introduce quotas you can see current figures. We know that some 140 000 illegal migrants are currently moving along the Balkan route, which only insists on being able to push into their desired destinations. We know that there are new arrivals almost every day in Italy, in Greece, and of course we also know that we still have the threat of this untold EU Turkey Pact, with which Mr Erdoğan has the opportunity to extortion Europe at any time if he does not get his billions to open up the locks and let hundreds of thousands into the EU. So we clearly reject that! In view of what has been happening in the EU in recent days in this EU-Migration Pact, which is being prepared under the leadership of Mrs von der Leyen, one has to bear in mind that it is difficult to deny that this new pact is in direct tradition to the notorious UN-Migration Pact, which, fortunately, Austria has not joined due to the government participation of the liberals. Like the UN-Migration Pact, this EU-Migration Pact is the main objective of the transition to more orderly and regular migration from non-European countries to the Western world. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Freedom Party, we are certainly not at our disposal! Nevertheless, I am of course looking forward to a lively discussion in the Committee on the Interior, so that it can also be made clear what is really the intention of this popular desire. As has been said, direct democratic means are very, very important to us, and we also wanted to expand them. At the time, we also negotiated into the government programme that, from a certain number of signatures, it would be (Parliament agreed to the request for an early vote) Unfortunately, this failed, because of the current government's lack of interest. As I said, I am looking forward to an exciting and exciting discussion in the Committee on the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3900	Mrs El-Nagashi is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3921	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Over 135 000 people have signed this popular desire for asylum, thus stimulating a parliamentary debate and debate on asylum, asylum and asylum systems. I can only welcome this and thank all the people who seek and perceive every opportunity to drive forward the changes that it needs – and these are systemic changes. There are a lot of construction sites in the area of asylum, and it is a debate that we need to hold, a debate that we need to hold, and a system that we need to change. There are a number of construction sites in this area. I also had the opportunity to talk to the initiator of popular desire about the concerns, the last time on the occasion of the International World Refugee Day at a rally of the platform for a human asylum policy. This rally was about two of these sites in the field of asylum, which must also be addressed at European level. One issue was deportations to Afghanistan. Afghanistan is not a safe country. Deviations to Afghanistan are life-threatening and life-threatening. Even if they do not take place in part due to cod, it is still practice that people are being taken into custody, in which they are shattered, there suffer for months, before they are then brought to a somehow more or less – under quotation marks, or whatever else it would have to be called – “voluntary” exit, just as Najib recently did after five months in the push. Afghanistan and deportations to Afghanistan are a subject that needs to be addressed. Another issue is the situation at the EU's external border between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We had this subject several times in committees, we also had it here in the plenary debate. Thousands of people live on this border under unworthy conditions. It is a situation that finds far too little attention, although medially it has been reported, although several cases of violence, police force, are documented by border force and have already been passed on to members of the government. These are just two examples, two of them in the area of asylum, and reform of the asylum system must provide a solution. I would like to take up two words from this popular desire in this context. One is solidarity, the other is justice, it is discussed here. We need a system that is solid and just. Our access to it – and I would like to do that again – is to protect people, protect refugees and fight against the causes of escape. This means providing help on the ground, it means increasing the resources for development cooperation, for conflict prevention and also for climate protection. It also means a consistent and committed peace policy, but it also means creating legal and safe paths of escape to Europe as a protection against the tow bands. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] It also means rapid, fair and independent asylum procedures, and it means an inclusive integration policy, that is, from day one. And it also means a reform of migration policy and migration strategy. These are our approaches, and I am pleased that the debate has been taken up by this popular desire. I am pleased that we are having this debate, because we have to get into this confrontation and we need a solidaric solution, which is in fact solidarity with the people affected by it. This solidarity can not only be lived by individuals or initiatives, such as the parish of Linz/St. Markus or Linz/St. Magdalena or the Steyler missionaries with Father Franz Helm or the Austrian Bishops' Conference or the Catholic Women's Movement or people like Ernst Schmeder, Doro Blancke, Ronny Kokert. We need to change the system and create a system of solidarity, and I would also like to say – and I do not say this easily – with the words of Pope Francis: ‘Fratelli tutti’. We must manage to see brothers and sisters in the fellow human beings and to understand that we are all siblings. In this sense: Let us have this debate, let us have this debate and let us change this system!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e3982	Mrs Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4004	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! The NEOS have great respect for the commitment of the initiators and the supporters behind this popular desire. In 2015, I also tried very hard for two citizens' initiatives. It didn't come any further, but I know how much commitment it takes to get such a popular desire so far that we stand here and talk about it. It is also clear that this popular desire in general has a fair purpose, namely – as my previous speaker said – to deal with the asylum system in Europe again in a serious way. At that time, in 2015, the citizens' initiative, which I strongly supported and for which we collected signatures on the street, focused on “Flee begins with war. for humanitarian aid and human actions of the EU and its Member States’. In a sub-point we have called for the abolition of the Dublin system and its place of solidarity in the distribution of asylum seekers in the EU – already then, 2015; nothing has happened since then. This brings me to the point of content: We think NEOS is very good at the intention of this popular desire, but it takes a functioning common EU system to meet the challenges in the field of sustainability. As long as there is no political agreement here, it makes little sense to park funds that cannot be used, because there is perhaps no legal basis for their appropriate use. We see a problem here and therefore consider it urgent, instead timely, constructive, solutions. As long as there is no Union-wide solution, Austria should move ahead in a coalition of those who are resolved and seek to establish a common asylum system once and to ensure that the Commission proposals already exist are implemented in a timely manner. Furthermore, increased participation in voluntary resettlement programmes in cooperation with the UNHCR would be important. And third – colleague El-Nagashi, that was deliberately not addressed by you, although you have pointed out many very fighting initiatives in Austria –: Moria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This would be the most urgent thing for us to take up children from Moria and now also from Moria two, Kara Tepe, not only because it is a commitment in the sense of humanity, but also because it would show, though only symbolically, that we are committed to a common asylum policy that should finally work.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4052	Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4073	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Values Seers at home! I may be allowed to make a small contribution to climate-people's desire, in connection with the fact that last weekend, the criticism was mediated that apples were distributed abroad in Parliament, namely New Zealand. Yesterday, a delegation from Styrian apple farmers came to Parliament and was also received by Mr President. It has symbolically handed over a large amount of Styrian apples to show our catering company that there is plenty of Austrian fruit and Austrian apples that we can supply. It is an important signal that we, as parliamentarians, are progressing with good examples. That's why steiric and Austrian apples here in Parliament! [[Keeping an apple in height]] [[In the case of the ÖVP and representatives of the Greens, as well as of the Agg. Light peace.]] [[The speaker put the apple on the speaker's desk.]] So, now on the subject of asylum and today's popular desire: With 135 000 supporters – we say thank you very much for the effort – it is not one of the most successful popular desires in the history of Austria, but it puts its finger on an open wound of European politics and concerns a subject that is very, very important for the future of Europe. The colleague mentioned Moria earlier. Unfortunately, Moria or other refugee camps within and outside Europe remind us again and again that it urgently needs better handling, better handling of the entire migration. Today, five years ago, thousands and tens of thousands have come across the border within a few days, especially in my home country, in my home region. They were not asked where they came from or where they were going, so that the state suffered a certain loss of control over its own territory. If this is still in our memory today, it is all the more urgent that there is a common European response to the whole asylum and refugee problem. If there is no common European strategy, there are some countries that are faced with very large loads, on the one hand, countries located at the external borders of Europe, i.e. Italy, Greece and Spain, but also those countries within Europe that are very focused on refugee flows because they have the best social systems to offer. Not without reason, many Germany, Sweden and also Austria have chosen as their destination country. We therefore welcome the fact that the European Commission has now taken a step forward and is trying to negotiate a European asylum and migration pact. In the run-up, the two responsible Commissioners in Austria, the Migration Commissioner and the Commissioner for the Interior, also discussed various issues. The migration commissioner Margaritis Schinas said he wanted to build the migration pact as a three-storey house. The most important floor, he has formulated, is the so-called external dimension, i.e. the help on the spot. We need to be able to contribute to the achievement of better living conditions in many countries from which migration flows originate. We must face up to this: The African continent alone is exposed to an exorbitant population explosion. Africa is currently growing at 2.5 percent per year. That means, and that is really not an error in the calculation, Africa is growing by 89 000 people every day – every day! Many are born into poor, poorest conditions, and one and the other will probably feel the desire to improve their living situation fundamentally sooner or later. This is how migration flows arise. In other words, as a joint European project, we need to intensify our support in the field. The second floor of this house is a robust external border protection. It must be clear who wants to enter the European Union to say whether there is an opportunity for asylum – and if not, the entry must be denied. It is probably unwarranted in this context when I quote the interior commissioner Ylva Johansson, who is from Sweden and who belongs there to the Social Democratic Workers' Party, who has also found that it must be clear: “They have no rights, they should go home – that is what the citizens ask of us. The message is: You must “return. ” We must take a decisive step forward in the area of return opportunities, agreements with the countries of origin at European level. That is why a common European strategy is needed. It simply needs a decisive fight against illegal migration and, above all, also against the very profitable towing. It is essential to have a European response to the problems of asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4140	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I assign the popular desire 345 of the supplements to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[15:17:51]] 4. Point First reading: Popular desire “EURATOM - Exit of Austria” (347 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4173	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4200	Mr President. High house! In 1978, the Austrian population voted against nuclear energy as part of a referendum. 20 years earlier, in 1957, the European Atomic Energy Community – Euratom – was founded, the subject of this popular desire. At that time, in 1957, the Treaty of Rome was established and, in addition to the European Atomic Energy Community, the European Coal and Steel Community and the European Economic Community were established, so to speak, the European Communities, the beginning of today's European Union. Austria has become a member of these Communities through its accession to the European Union and has adopted all these Treaties, including Euratom. The objective of Euratom at the time, as it is today, is, as I quote, the development of nuclear industries and also the 'heavy of living in the Member States'. At that time, nuclear power was seen as a technology for the future, and today some Member States of the European Union still regard nuclear power as a technology for the future. What are the concerns of popular desire? – There are old demands from committed people who say: Austria is expected to leave Euratom. Well, the whole thing's not that simple. There are probably some legal experts who believe that this is possible, but the overwhelming majority of legal experts say, no, you can't, you can't just get out of Euratom, you have to get out of the European Union as a whole. There is also a common opinion on the Constitutional Service and the International Law Bureau. We have now also experienced this in the case of Great Britain. The United Kingdom has resigned from the European Union but wanted to remain in Euratom because the British are putting very much on nuclear power. You can't, you can just leave or you can't. As a member of the European Union one is therefore also a member of Euratom. However, Austria has always understood the situation in such a way that it is better to be part of this community and to change it to a positive one, than to leave and not to be able to speak with it. The second point of the claim is a change in the Treaty of Euratom: It is theoretically possible to achieve very difficult real-politically, because a conference of the Member States would have to be convened. This is natural, but the Euratom Treaty should be amended in compliance with the principle of unanimity, and there is no majority in favour of it. Austria is insisting on a change and is trying to implement it, but at present a majority is not beginning. Furthermore, Austria is always colported to pay a membership contribution of around 40 million euros to Euratom, which is not true. There is no Euratom contribution, there are individual budget positions which are slightly smaller. I do not want to devalue this at all, but to list only the facts that we have to deal with. Austria's aim was always to use these funds used for Euratom in safety research and radiation protection. In 2013, we had a Council of Ministers lecture on this subject by the then Minister of Science Karlheinz Dägenle, in which it was stated that Austria intends to implement this objective of investing more in radiation protection, in safety. Five points were decided at the time: that European nuclear research should go towards security issues; that the budget resources should be recast towards radiation protection and risk research; that an exit scenario should be developed from nuclear power. Another point was that there should be new priorities towards Renewables, that is renewable energy. In any case, the position was then and is still today, as said: Better to be inside and to negotiate, to change things, than to be outside. The fact is that the realization of nuclear energy worldwide and also in Europe without financial support is not possible. The EU does not support financial support, but Member States do very well. Unfortunately, Austria has in In the course of the proceedings against the European Court of Justice, the Court of Justice suffered a detour. It was decided that the British could do this. We think this is wrong. It is therefore important that there are start-ups. Minister Geessler also wants to do this and to be successful with Member States that do not rely on nuclear power. In 2011 after the terrible nuclear super-GAU in Fukushima, we formed here in Austria an anti-atomic ally of states in Europe that have no nuclear power. These have been among the Baltic states, for example, Poland, Italy and Greece, but also non-EU members like Norway, because we simply want to create moods. A great success was achieved at the time: The Germans get out of nuclear power and do it very consistently. Other countries do not. Unfortunately, nuclear power is often in fashion these days and some see nuclear power as a means to emit less CO2. This may be technically true, but it is a risk technology. No one says how the costs of nuclear waste storage are assessed with the eternally radiating radioactive material. No one wants any such end-of-life sites. That is not the reason why this is still not a technology that is in question for us, but for many countries it is already. At the time, I was told by the British Environment Minister that they want to become energy self-sufficient like Austria; they have North Sea oil and they have nuclear power – and otherwise few other forms of energy. – That’s why we need to get involved. Our goal, namely to rely on renewable energy, is better – Austria is very good. There is a law in the draft, which is an important point. But it is my concern that we use all forms of renewable energy: Wind and solar energy, geothermal, but also biomass and biogas. We shouldn't be disadvantaged with energy. An energy-autarchic Austria can only be successful and useful if we generate energy in our own country if we rely on all domestic energy sources and do not say unilaterally: Well, biomass, and there's a farmer's promotion for that. – In fact, we have a lot of shade that we should use meaningfully. A final point: In the Renewable Development Act, citizens' societies, the renewable energy communities, are enshrined. The opposite happens in Burgenland. There a spatial planning law was sent in review, in which the country says that it should be approved on open space photovoltaic plants, but only a state company that is 100% owned by the country of Burgenland. [[Abg. Krainer: He fears above all what state means!]] – This is not the way of renewable energies, Mr Krainer. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We have to bring people back, we have to make up for private capital that people invest in renewable energy sources, and not make a monopoly of a federal country. That's pre-pre-existing policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4251	Mrs Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4272	Mr President. Values Advisors! The antiatomic movement wrote history in Austria. In 1972 there was the groundbreaking ceremony for the Zwentendorf AKW, and in 1978 the then Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky announced a referendum to the nuclear power station. The outcome of the referendum is historical and well-known. Two thirds of the electorate participated in this referendum, and a close majority voted in favour of not using the Zwentendorf AKW, and that was the case. To this day stands the AKW in Zwentendorf silent, and instead of nuclear energy, maximum groups of visitors flow through the corridors of the building. Today again and again there are protests about nuclear power stations that are not necessarily in Austria, but that influence our lives massively. I'm thinking of Mochovce and Temelín. These are just two trouble bears on the Austrian border, about which one reads news with abdominal pains of shut-off reactor blocks, disturbances and the like, which is really worrying. If it says nuclear power means zero CO2, then it is honestly less than half the truth, because we know: The reduction in CO2 emissions is essential, as has already been mentioned in the climate demand. The stockpiled processes of a nuclear power plant are massive climate probes and, in no case, clean energy, one can say, and the storage of fuel rods is not yet included. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] For nuclear energy, one can only say: fire dangerous and significantly CO2-burdening. We therefore call for the Euratom Treaty to be transformed into a nuclear power-emission treaty, because then the really disgraceful privileges and distortions of competition in favour of nuclear energy would at last be a thing of the past. That is why, in the medium term, Euratom's development and adaptation to an exit agreement. Under Black and Blue, the government programme has already stated that the EU Council Presidency and the Brexit negotiations are being used for this, but – Surprise! – nothing has happened at all. The new government programme is again on this issue, and we can only say: Please act quickly and form a Europe-wide alliance for nuclear energy exodus, better today than tomorrow! In any case, nuclear energy cannot be a technology for the future. Let us work together within the European Union – and this is central – for renewable energies and the successive exit from nuclear energy! Existing nuclear reactors are to be shut down – towards renewable energy, together on this path! Finally, you can only say one thing: Atomic power – no, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4327	Mr Deimek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4348	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation of Austria is clear: We have a nuclear power barrier since 1978; in all countries around us, we have nuclear power plants. We can remember Krško, we know what happened in Temelín. It is not always the high technology there that is dangerous, it is the very trivial things. Somewhere fragility clogs something or a valve breaks, and then everything is steaming, then there is a danger to body and life, then the health or life of people is at risk. In Austria, as I said, we have no nuclear power station, we have a very small hospital waste camp and for the Seibersdorf reactor – I don't even want to call it a camp. That is to say, we have no need for the entire history of Euratom and no benefit from it – with segments mentioned by Mr Berlakovich, radiation protection and so on. But this too is very, very small, but at least it costs a lot of money. We all got a lot of emails from each other in the last days and weeks. I wrote a mother with little kids. She asks: Who wants to be there anyway? Who would actually like to put current money into the application of and research on nuclear power? Who locks down against an exit? – I then talked to her for a longer time and said: It's not about blocking, you have to do the whole thing according to the contract. Mr Berlakovich has already suggested: It's not a question of getting out of the house, of getting out of the house, of getting out of the house, but of making an exit according to contract. This is the legal important: contract-compliant. We are in a time of great change. Who would have thought three years ago that the United Kingdom is out of the EU? – No human could have imagined that! Today we cannot imagine, at least not the Federal Government, that we are leaving Euratom. – It is just as possible! Each contract offers the possibility to leave, and these parts, this content of the contract, we must begin to fulfil in order to make an exit possible in the final effect. Then the questions of concerned parents remain separate from us whether we, the Parliament, the Federal Government, deliberately want to block this exit or whether we may even want to allow nuclear power in Austria again. I'd like to save ourselves that. We want to be consistent, we want the exit from Euratom not only on paper, we really want it because I believe that radiation protection can also be financed internally. Just as we have to live with an exit from the EU of Great Britain, we will also be able to live very well with an exit from Euratom. You just have to follow it consistently. I would like to see good discussions in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4390	Mr Litschauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4412	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking myself for the fact that so many supporters of this popular desire have signed and thus pointed to the problem of the nuclear industry very intensely. We have already heard today, and in 1957 several contracts were concluded, including Euratom. The four main objectives of Euratom were: the dissemination of technical information, the establishment of uniform safety standards, the support of research and the prevention of the supply of civilian nuclear materials for other, in particular military purposes. 17 years after signing the contract I came to the world, one could say that the contract was just in puberty – he didn't change at all in time. In 1977, in front of the gates of Vienna, in Bohunice, there was an ines-4 incident in which the reactor, the block A1, was completely destroyed, but it was almost not perceived. Yesterday 20 years ago, in the forest district and in the Mühlviertel, the border blockades against the commissioning of Temelín just ended. After that, there were negotiations, the Milk Protocol, and we had to note that there were still no uniform safety standards in Europe 43 years after the start of the contract. Today the Treaty is 63 years old – and essentially still unchanged. I think it's actually time for this contract to be sent to pension; at the age of 63, I think he's mature for it. After more than six decades of Euratom, two of the four main objectives have not been achieved at all: We have no uniform, let alone the highest safety standards, and we are also miles away from them. that radioactive material has been abstained from military purpose. Rather, the suspicion is that most of the reactors are still financed and built to meet precisely these military interests. In addition, these nuclear installations pose a major threat to terrorism. It's playing easy to turn such an atomic system into a Dirty bomb, and that's exactly what we should put in front of a bar. Research has been carried out primarily in the field of reactors, billions have been used to produce tons of nuclear waste. In particular, where Euratom has failed, there has been nothing going on in the nuclear waste storage sector, we do not have nuclear waste dumps until now. But I admit, there are also positive pages: Euratom, for example, is also financing the reconstruction of nuclear installations in Bulgaria, Lithuania, Slovakia, and the Chernobel Shelter Fund, which is used to finance the safe envelopment of reactor ruins. These measures are important both in principle and in the future. In June, there was a radioactive cloud that was spread across Europe. This has shown me that the nuclear supervision is not working so well, because although we know that this radioactive cloud has an artificial source, the IAEA has not yet wanted to answer or can tell where this radioactive cloud came from. This shows me that the nuclear supervision is not quite the way it should work. We need complete transparency in order to be clear about the threats. It is therefore urgently necessary that this Treaty be revised and that we get out of this atomic error. It's already been cut: The nuclear industry is not CO2-neutral. On the contrary: It produces much more CO2 than renewable energy. That is why we need a new treaty that creates safe nuclear waste disposal and security for Europe – but certainly we do not need new reactors. I ask everyone to help us find a lot of support in Europe so that we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4467	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4488	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The exit from Euratom is required by the initiators of popular desire. – This is a very difficult undertaking. I would just like to explain the access of NEOS in the near future. It is absolutely clear to us that with the natural resources we have in our country, we have enough potential with renewable energy, both in electricity production and in the area of heat and cold, and there is no need to discuss the need to have nuclear power in Austria at all. We must note, however, that there are many countries in Europe that have the same understanding of nuclear power, which we have with regard to renewable energy. I should like to remind you that most of our neighbours are: Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, not too long ago also Germany, Italy and Switzerland. In the European Community, we are well aware of the sovereignty of the states in energy policy, which we claim to accept in other Member States, even if it is a painful process for us. It is. It is precisely for this reason that we see no way of getting out of Euratom, especially since membership of the European Union is partly linked to it. In fact, it would be a difficult thing to get out of Euratom. The central element is from our point of view that we are making membership in such a way that we focus on research and security that we reach out to make sure that those power plants that are built in our environment are designed and built in such a way that we do not have to worry about this generation and all future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4531	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I can assign the popular desire to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection 347. [[15:39:12]] 5. Point Report by the National Defence Committee on Amendment 779/A(E) by Robert Laimer, Dr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Defence (379 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4573	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. I welcome the Minister for Defence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There was no oral reporting. Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4609	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mrs. Federal Minister, you left the path of virtue in June. Even if you did not personally present the turquoise reform concept to the media – the spirit is out of the bottle. They fell into the role of the turquoise party soldier with daily orders from the Federal Chancellor's Office, instead of being the trustee of our soldiers. The caputt saving of the constitutional institution of Austrian federal army and your capitulation on military defence have jointly called on the opposition to act to prevent and avert additional threat to security and protection of Austria and its people by announcements, decisions and omissions of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. For this reason, after in-depth consultations between SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS, the essential request for distrust was made from our point of view. While Airbus has not yet met you, you plan a parliamentary survey on airspace surveillance, a parliamentary survey to gain time – time that we do not have in relation to the constitutional surveillance of our airspace, our commitment to safeguard our airspace sovereignly. In addition, the lower-sounder Saab 105, which will be eliminated this year, has simply been removed without replacement – with a tenth of the costs compared to the Eurofighter. This is a sustainable failure, ladies and gentlemen, and an indication that you are now finalising Airbus/Eurofighter – also if Indonesian nebula grenades are now thrown – and this, although your predecessor Doskozil has put a legal tool in your hands by encouraging you to initiate the dispute with Airbus in order to try everything legal to keep the damage to Austrian taxpayers as low as possible and to stop them. The Lex Schüssel now employs our Republic for almost 20 years, and it is about a lot of money that has disappeared in dark channels, which requires a reconnaissance. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Security Strategy was adopted by the majority in Parliament in 2013. Since then, the risk picture for our Republic has changed; the strategy paper “Our Army 2030” of your immediate predecessor Thomas Starlinger, in agreement with the General Staff, strongly points out this. There is therefore a new, urgent need for action and there is no need for an abstract interception debate by means of a survey in the High House. Parliament has the right and democratic duty to discuss a modern security strategy. If, for political reasons, the comprehensive national defence can no longer be maintained or the causal task of the Austrian federal army, the military defence, de facto is declared obsolet, then there is certainly a break with the Austrian federal constitution. Therefore, the failure of confidence in your office was made in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 Federal Constitutional Act by means of a resolution tabled 779/A(E) by SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS. In conclusion: A federal army, which is reduced to disaster service and assistance in addition to fire brigade and police, is not in the sense of Austrian sovereignty, is not in the sense of Austrian neutrality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4661	Member of the Ovenauer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4682	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, especially Mrs Federal Minister for Defence! Estimated colleagues in the High Authority House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The debate is full of distrust, ladies and gentlemen, and I must say that this spectacle that we are experiencing here is something great on me. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This theater donor we hear here is now, I think, the standard repertoire of the opposition. What's going on here? – Artificial problems are created and raised, and then one complains that there are problems. We have already experienced this in the short debate on the question of Minister Blümel's answer today when Klubobmann Leichtfried stood up and excited himself about a problem which is not at all at all. Or people are discredited or discredited – Colleague Heinisch-Hosek, Friedrich von Hayek – to make their work bad. Or, Mr Laimer – and for himself we understand ourselves quite well –: Ball horns of names such as tanners and fads, that's little virtuous. That's bad style, ladies and gentlemen, and that doesn't bring us any further. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It was mentioned that nebula grenades are thrown. – I have the impression that nebula grenades are thrown, namely from the opposition, because you may be have no own topics because you might want to distract from your own problems. The fact is, however, that the opposition in the self-produced fog is losing. I can only tell you: This government under Sebastian Kurz, the ministers and, above all, the Federal Minister for Defence, it is important to bring people through the crisis well, and this budget, which has been presented and debated today, succeeds. With this budget, the government also wants to ensure security, and this will be achieved with this 2021 budget, especially as regards the Austrian Federal Army, ladies and gentlemen. We have – and I would like to congratulate you on this success, Mrs. Federal Minister – in 2021 for the Austrian federal army, EUR 2.7 billion in the budget. This is a plus of 8.3 percent compared to 2020 with 2.55 billion euros, and it was already higher this year than last year. So this is a good success, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, if you had listened to the Minister in the committee, if you had listened to what she has explained to you, how this money is invested, what will be purchased – mobility package, buses, trucks, deep-trailers that should come – then you would only have had one option, namely to withdraw this request already in committee! In fact, it has disproved everything and has repeatedly stressed: It is and remains so, quite clearly, the military state defense is, of course, the main task of the Austrian federal army! – That, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, she has confirmed and confirmed several times, this is and remains so. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, one must also say, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future the requirements will become more complex – in all areas: hybrid threats, even by terror, heavy weapons are a topic, fight of connected weapons will remain a topic, cyber attacks, disaster aid, disaster protection and, of course, airspace surveillance. Air space monitoring is also ensured, ladies and gentlemen, not only because of the decision to purchase 18 Leonardo helicopters, but also because of the decision to monitor the airspace by the Eurofighters. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only call on the united opposition to withdraw from its political activism and to dissociate itself, for one thing is clear: [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] We need a army, we need an Austrian federal army that can meet the challenges of the present, but also the requirements of the future. This is about a new structure, a structured approach, and our Federal Minister Claudia Tanner is working on her orders point by point. With such a Minister of Defense, ladies and gentlemen, I also know our national defence in good hands. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Let me conclude by saying the following, as it is always about people: I am also grateful to the soldiers, who are now in operation and who ensure the security of our Republic of Austria every day – right now. They are doing an excellent job, they are currently enjoying the highest international reputation, and they have not deserved to be permanently subject to such uncertainties, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have a Minister of Defense at the head of the Austrian Republic working for the Austrian Federal Army. Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition, I can only call you: Step back from this mistrust!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4796	Mr Bösch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4818	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Ofenauer, you can quietly try to speak up this mistrust in your direction, you will not succeed. Mrs. Defence Minister, you were completely unnecessarily imposed by your party in your office, and you did the party order earlier than we all loved. As Minister of Defense, they have done nothing less than step into the public and declare that national defence is hereby abolished. Mrs. Federal Minister! This was not only a constitutional total damage, but it is also a little under the heading that this is a development in an arrogant sneezing force – sneezing force, I am very reluctant to use this term, because I did not invent it, but rather the Vice-Chancellor, in order to call his coalition partner. That is why I can only insist that there is a turning in this direction. As opposition parties, they have led us to make applications to the Federal Government to ensure that “Austria can continue to ‘complete’ the constitutional protection of the country and its citizens with a capable and modern armed forces, which will fully ‘constitutionally fulfil the task of military defence’ and that ‘the core competences and capabilities of the armed forces’ must be maintained and the federal army [...] not only reduced to assistance missions’, so that, in addition to military national defence, participation in international peace and stabilisation efforts in the interests of Austria is ensured and the EU commitments such as Pesco are not threatened. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, Madam Minister of Defence, it was necessary that we act as a working opposition to this declaration of intent by you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have tabled this request for distrust, and he still seems to us today to be entitled not only to strengthen the constitutional fidelity of the National Council, but also for purely pedagogical reasons with a view to a government party which we can teach and to teach that it is not possible to do everything with the Austrian People's Office and the Austrian public.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4864	Mr Stögmüller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4885	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think this debate is very exciting, because the parties who are most appealing to the Minister today have for many years led this area of defence and have been responsible for the situation before which we stand. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It doesn't matter if it's Doskozil or just Kunasek. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: We were never, I believe!]] - That's right. The NEOS were not there. Who knows? But the two that I mentioned had no solutions, they only managed the status quo. [[Abg. Kickl: You're going to come up with who... in the coalition!]] One thing I have to say: Mrs Tanner has taken over the Ministry of State Defense in a truly difficult financial situation and she has managed to achieve a huge budget increase for this year, and it is also expected that next year will be a positive one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That's why you have to congratulate her on getting a plus very well. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen Wehrsprecher! I cannot understand your criticism of it now. We have clearly stated in the Government Agreement that we want to orient the German army and its tasks exactly where in the future the greatest challenges are to be faced for this Republic. We have great challenges, which is indisputable for which we need a well-equipped federal army, whether it be with the cyberrat attacks, whether it be with the natural disasters caused by climate change or with a blackout. We certainly need an increase in resistance, for example for a blackout, in the barracks and also for the entire federal army. We also have many points in the militia, which are already in the pipeline, which we only need to implement. The aim is that the army as a whole is finally modernised, the ground defense service is attracted, the militia also gets sufficient resources to take over necessary tasks in crisis and disaster management, and can support us during pandemics, natural disasters, cyber attacks and blackouts. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis, we know that a pandemic is not only a theoretical threat, but can also be a real threat that challenges the entire state, as well as the citizens and the federal army. You really have to say thanks to all the soldiers outside who took over this task – thank you very much for that. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It is clear to us that the military state defense continues to be carried out as a traditional task of the Austrian Federal Government. This also provides for Article 79 of the Federal Constitutional Act. At this point, the maintenance of security in the home and in the order or assistance in the event of elementary events and accidents, i.e. disaster protection, are also mentioned as a task. We need real answers to the challenges and to the current threats. We Greens want the German army to have sustainable, cost-effective, modern and fully operational, and I know that with Mrs. Federal Minister Tanner, we have exactly one of those contestants when it comes to the important issues and challenges. [[Abg. Kickl: Jössas! ... from the archive...!]] It is clear that not all people will like it – Mr Kickl, perhaps not you too – but we want to increase synergies, perhaps also a reduction in staff levels in the ministry, so that we can free up resources for the outside team. Mrs Minister, we will not, of course, support this request, quite the contrary: Let us together see that we are also taking steps together to implement the government programme and the points we have made for a sustainable federal army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4975	Mr Trauttmansdorff is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e4996	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Other Federal Ministers! Mr State Secretary! First of all: Mr. Ofenauer said that the uncertainty within the forces arose through the opposition – I think he called it the “united opposition”. This is the opposite, because there is extreme uncertainty in the Federal Government, because no one knows where it is going, because no one knows where this minister wants to lead this place. That is exactly what is missing at the moment; by the way, the ÖVP has been missing for decades. It is actually very depressing if someone of the Greens now has more perspective in the Austrian federal army than the ÖVP. That's amazing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] From our point of view, the Federal Minister lacks a clear vision, a vision of how she wants to deal with this place where she wants to lead this place. That very vision needed it, and she would have to take the force, take the general staff with her, take us as a people's representative, take the population with her. But all of this is not happening, and that is precisely why we no longer have any confidence in this Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Over the last few months, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have repeatedly made statements that have had to be taken back within a few minutes or hours. They have repeatedly taken positions that were not accorded, especially with the General Staff. We remember background talks in some cellars, where then suddenly military defence should be abolished. Just these embarrassing things – in addition, a few embarrassing press appearances are coming: Eurofighter will get to know me! and so on – causing us to lose this trust. It is quite clear that there is a need for reforms in the Austrian federal army, I believe that this is something that everyone here in Parliament underlines. However, for precisely these reforms, a broad consensus is needed. It needs a discussion, a truly comprehensive discussion, which you do not consider to be the They do not lead here or with the general staff or in the house and even with the Austrian population. This very Austrian population has a very high opinion from the Austrian Federal Army. We know this, you know, as well – there are very strange questions of opinion on a regular basis, in which a so-called omnibus is made by your place of business together with the ÖVP – and in these surveys it is very clear that the Austrian population has a very high opinion from the Austrian federal army, especially because of the assistance, border operations and so on. However, this opinion will harm you if you come constantly with any shortcomings and have persistently any ideas that are not feasible, which are not agreed and which you simply want to push through quickly without a broad discussion. We all know where these ideas come from: You usually come from the Federal Chancellery, because nothing else is your job: They must be a means of fulfillment. Sit here. De facto Sebastian Kurzhier would have to sit and Sebastian Kurzüsste would have to be told that he is putting at risk the Austrian state defense and security, the security of the population, daily by the way he deals with the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Previously, the SPÖ's colleague referred to airspace surveillance. That was actually the trigger for this discussion that we are having today. We have been pointing out since last year, since 2019, that we have problems that we need a solution at the earliest. The Saab 105 were addressed, the planes run out, because we need to find a solution quickly. Your solution is: No, we don't need any more!, the Eurofighters who can't fly anyway, because they're poorly equipped – you can't do anything for it, but your predecessors – are supposed to do it. - It won't go out! So we will not have a safe airspace in the future, and that is, I believe, something that should really concern us as a republic. All these things that have happened lately show us that there has been massive leadership errors in your resort – from you, from your cabinet – which would have been quite simple and simple to eliminate if one had conducted a wide discourse. That's why there's this distrust request. We are deeply convinced that the Austrian federal army needs reforms, but for these reforms we need a minister who can, and that is why we need a change of leadership.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5081	Mr Kühberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5103	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Ministers! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! I spoke today on this item on the agenda, as it was not long ago that our esteemed Minister of Defense was with me in my region in the Sankt Michael barracks. I took a picture on the spot of how our Minister of Defense works for the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army and above all how she fights, how she fights for a functioning future federal army! [[Abg. Singer: But how!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is precisely what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen: ensuring the classical defence of the country, including the future defence of the country in our country. [[Abg. Singer: Do you have any idea?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] . Yes, this necessity seems to have not been recognized by some colleagues here in plenary, especially by the opposition. Mr Bösch, you spoke about hypocrisy and beautiful speeches earlier on. – On the contrary, I wonder: What is the foundation of this mistrust request? They are making a request for distrust against a Federal Minister who has managed twice to negotiate a plus at the budget. [[Call the FPÖ: Right!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You put here – to you, my colleague, I am coming! – a request for distrust against a Federal Minister – in fact it is probably embarrassing to you – who has launched the largest investment in our country over the last 20 years. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, it says everything if you now want to attach this success to your flags from the Freedom Party, but also from the SPÖ. But the fact is: You, dear Freedom Party, and you, dear SPÖ, have promised it, implemented it and kept it, but our Minister of Defense, Federal Minister Tanner! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] As a Steirer, I would like to thank you once again. Thanks to the purchase of helicopters, very many, even hundreds of jobs were secured, especially in the Obersteiermark. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now I come to the most absurd of this distrust request – my previous speaker has addressed disaster protection and said that it is strongly needed and popular among people –: Do you know, Mr President, that in your motion for a reluctance you are criticising the very protection of disasters? [[Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff and Mr Scherak.]] In my region, Mr. colleague, in my region, in the Obersteiermark, we have had many natural disasters over the last few years, district of Murau, district of Murtal, floods, floods, moorings – there are people happy when the German army is on site and assists, just as in the avalanche in January 2019 in Ramsau. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The people and also we as communities are very grateful for this. In this sense, I would also like to thank the Austrian soldiers for their commitment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, we are with you: We need a strong federal army, which is prepared for current, but above all for future tasks, and this includes disaster protection as well as cybersecurity. Ladies and gentlemen! The military state defense is and remains the core task of our army, and the Federal Minister has emphasized this very often. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] But we also need to make our federal army fit for the future. I understand the FPÖ You would most likely like to put all the money into heavy equipment, in combat tanks, in shooter tanks, in tanks – and possibly also in fantasy uniforms, Mr. Kickl? [[Abg. Kickl: On the helicopters...!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to say this to the FPÖ in the 20th century. [[Abg. Kickl: Writes on the helicopters Kunasek on it, then it's true again!]] – You don’t have to be so excited, Mr. Kickl, the horses, the Haflingers, by the way, who are doing a very good job with the German army, will remain. If you really want to ride: I have two dear ponys at home, I invite you very cordially. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and congratulation with representatives of the Greens.]] Dear Opposition, at the beginning of my speech, I asked the question of the foundation of this mistrust request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Now I can give you the answer: to none, he has coincided like a cardhouse.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5312	Mrs Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5334	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Minister! Mr Kühberger, the motion of censure is not directed against the German army or the protection of disasters and everything that is done there, but against the Minister. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] The services of the federal government are un- – – Please? – Mrs. Minister - - – Yes, exactly. [[Abg. Strasser: From woman to wife!]] [[Abg. Strasser: From woman to wife!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:... is a woman!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Yes, exactly! That's good!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] The achievements of the federal army are undisputed, we all agree. Especially in disaster protection, which has been mentioned, but also in many, many other areas, we need the federal army, and that is why we need proper equipment. I come to another point: I have repeatedly pointed out in the Committee that we do not receive satisfactory answers to parliamentary questions concerning the Federal Government. Even in the case of my request for “Blackout security of barracks” the answer was very poor, due to secrecy we did not get any answers. However, the population has a right to know whether an aggregate for electricity generation exists in its barracks. The population has a right to know if there are food reserves when it is in an emergency to be supplied. The population also has a right to know whether water supply is available via a drinking water well and so on, and, Mrs Minister, just these questions have not been answered by you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Blackout security should also be a central task of the federal army – and it is. That is why the population must also be able to rely on the federal army to help in the event of an emergency, and that will only be possible with appropriate equipment. For this reason, it is urgently necessary to modernise the barracks. One can only be operational with a working equipment and the buildings must also be in a proper condition so that one can work properly. In this context, I would like to refer to the German army petition, which can be supported through the side of Parliament. It calls for an increase in the budget to EUR 3 billion a year from 2021, a modern equipment and also for the elimination of wage injustices that remain. Austria admits itself to neutrality and to the German army with its valuable work on so many levels. It is now up to us and above all to you, Mrs Minister, to equip the federal army in such a way that this work can also be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5423	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5444	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Dear Seers! Mrs Land defense Minister, to you: You don't get a distrust application presented every day. I can only join this request in full and out of deep conviction. [[Call the ÖVP:Na bravo!]] The request will certainly be rejected, you will continue to be our Lady Minister of State Defense, but I very much hope that you will get into a self-critical phase and [[Congratulations and Bravorufe at the ÖVP]] Rethink your reform project for the benefit and protection of the population and for the security of our country. The massive reduction in personnel, the dissolution of large associations in the force, the planned destruction of built-up competences are degrading the German army to the technical relief plant, and this shows what our Mrs. Minister really is up to. In the future, the army will only be more focused on cyberdefence and disaster protection. To believe that future possible attacks or threats would take place only from one dimension, such as from cyberspace, is a great, yes, misleading dangerous error. Rather, these threats will most likely be multidimensional campaigns, such as attacks on critical infrastructure by special staff plus the use of drones on critical infrastructure with targeted cyberattacks. The reduction of existing long-term skills is the wrong way. Mrs Bundesminister, I think you have been able to convince yourself in the “Handwerk 20” exercise of the importance of the interaction of various weapons holes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Claudia Tanner's action is not conducive, but is damaging to our country and the Austrian federal army, and therefore I support the motion for a reluctance. I ask all of you to act in the interests of our citizens and to support them as well. The main task of the Austrian federal army is to protect Austria in a serious case. We all hope that this case will not occur, but if so, we must be prepared, and we need a ready-to-use and functional German army, which can also protect us Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5484	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5505	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I did not originally want to talk about this item on the agenda, but Mr Kühberger has now motivated me to speak, because it was quite, admittedly, a very funny and noisy political speech. I liked Haflinger-Pferdewitz and the fantasy uniform particularly well, but we should discuss this topic seriously and seriously – the subject is far too serious – about the military defence of the country. We could say – as chancellors have just said – that the battle of tanks in Marchfeld is no longer taking place, so we really need the military defense or the heavy weapons, the tanks no longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The Austrian federal army has a total of about 200 tanks. I don't know how many of them are actually operational, but if that's the case, then I wonder why some Poland has just bought 800 combat tanks, why approximately Hungary bought 220 tanks, why Switzerland bought 640 tanks. Again: We are talking about the military defence that you, Mr Bösch, have already mentioned, of course, on behalf of your party and your Federal Chancellor de facto, want to abolish. This is not only not allowed constitutionally, but, I think, it is also unresponsible to our people. When we look around in the European environment, we see that most states are NATO members. I'm coming to your budget figures now. Already the highest budget: Let's put this right and put it in relation! As a common sense, Nato has 2.0 percent of GDP as a budget for military national defence. That is to say, these states and governments are so important for military defence and they consider this amount as a contribution to a military, as necessary to protect their population. 2.0 percent – let us remember that! How much do we have? – 0.5 percent, i.e. a quarter of it. That already tells me the logic that with a quarter of it, and this money disappears 80 percent in personnel costs and 10 percent in operating costs, nothing left for investment at all. It is in fact impossible to finance, maintain and secure our population in an uncertain European environment. These are the facts, and there is nothing to be done if you agree within the framework of the EU that you will make an effort. That's the subject again: In Brussels we are so, as we say, we are at Pesco, i.e. the permanent Structured Cooperation within the framework of the EU. That is what we are saying, and we will try to achieve these objectives. Here in Austria you do exactly the opposite, and that is the core of our mistrust against you, and not horses and Haflinger and other things, but our serious concern that is factual – please bring me factual evidence, not any stories! – the military defense, i.e. a heavy-armed army – the fight of the connected weapons was mentioned; Mr President, I ask you what you want to do with the fight of connected weapons, with a dung fork, with artillery and similar things, and that is the point of our distrust, which not only the FPÖ but the whole opposition has put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5560	Member of the Commission of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part of the European Parliament, of the other part, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5587	Dear Mrs Noch-Bundesminister! [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] If all the opposition parties agree on a common request for distrust, this does not happen easily, but then it is well thought out and for a good reason. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] If you express yourself on the topic of national defence, then the real physical pain is in my mind, and I guarantee you, I'm not the only one here in the house. [[Call the ÖVP: Go to the doctor!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] You just don't know about the military. They are only a good party soldier who carries out the orders, the orders of the Federal Chancellor without resistance, down the federal army and adapts them accordingly to the lack of budget. This mistrust request does not result in a party-political calculation. He comes out of the material necessity because we want to save our federal army from you. Actually, as an opposition politician, we could not be better off than you wish. In that respect, we must: They ask you to remain in this office for as long as possible, but we simply cannot do so because of our Republic's political responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Airbus has not met you to this day, but unfortunately we are, and even national politicians of the ÖVP, so your own party, are talking, of course, only behind our hands, of a political false occupation in the Ministry of Defence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] And although our today's request for distrust will not find a majority, please go inside and ask yourself whether you are really the right person for this very post. If you are honest with the political mirror, then you must come to the end either to withdraw completely from this function or at least to change the place of business. I'm sure there are resorts that better face you. The Vienna election is over, now would actually be the right time for such a step.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5663	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Kickl: The powder was shot!]] Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we get to the voting process, I ask the clubs whether a session is wanted. - That's not the case. Then we can get to the vote in a moment. We now proceed to the vote on the request by the National Defence Committee to take note of its report 379 of the supplements. Whoever does this may do so with the consenting form. . This is the majority of the report that has been adopted. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Singer: That was a short applause!]] [[16:21:36]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Defence of the State on Amendment 664/A(E) by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on the evaluation of the use of the militia (390 d.e.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5727	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I can ask Member Johann Höfingeran to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5757	Mr President. Mrs Bundesministerins! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friends of the Freeman and the SPÖ! Now, if you've been listening to me like this, then you really feel that people inside or outside have a short-term memory, they don't know what you've actually been doing in recent years in terms of national defense. [[Abg. Kickl: Helicopter... for example!]] I am thinking only of Minister Kunasek, who is himself in the way because his own party secretary wanted to buy him what he should implement in the national defence sector. Or the SPÖ, which was for the abolition of the military duty and today forgets crocodile tears when it comes to sites or similar things in the discussion. 95 percent of the barracks would have been closed if it had gone to you. In the savings made by Darabos regarding the plane that Eurofighter made, one has to imagine that it would be as if one were to expand the headlights in a car – at night it is dark. These were the famous savings, the famous strategies for the federal army from your side. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing the evaluation of the military deployment that took place this summer. This request, it seems, is accepted by all and decided jointly. I think this is also a sign of approval for the militia, which has shown that it has mastered its craftsmanship even under special challenges and circumstances, that it can adapt to completely new situations such as this Corona crisis, and that it has dealt with its task of bravour, although it has not yet been done. Maybe very briefly as an explanation for the spectators: What's the militia? – The militia, these are in fact civilians in uniform, these are citizens in uniform, because the militia, these are those who are integrated into the federal army, but are only used for practice or use for military use and otherwise pursue civilian occupations. They are a huge support for our military system, for our Austrian federal army. These are the ones who, in addition to their professions, are involved with great passion and with great commitment to this country in the sense of national defence. This year, the first time this militia has been mobilised due to this extraordinary situation. [[Congratulation of the Abg. It's funny.]] I think they made a very valuable contribution especially in these weeks, when there was an intense crisis, and now it is about evaluating this work. We want to do this together in order to be able to draw the necessary conclusions for the future. I would also like to thank our Minister for this point, but I would like to thank him very much, even in the summer, more or less, during or shortly after the deployment, for an extraordinary package of EUR 200 million for the militia, a package that is about creating new structures in the future, improving the equipment, in vehicles, accommodation and everything related to it. This is national defence in its immediate form, many thanks for this commitment. This is further development of the Austrian federal army, which is an announcement for the support of the Austrian military, for which I thank you very much. I believe that this evaluation, which we will now decide on, will also make a further essential step towards improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5806	Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5827	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If I listen to colleagues Höfinger, I think he is not aware of an important document, namely the Starlinger report “Our Army 2030”. I'm not surprised either, because ÖVP's shredders probably have already shredded the Starlinger report, but that's typical. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are many stories about the militia, I want to tell a story: A train runs from Allensteig to Spittal an der Drau. The train runs 18 hours from the Waldviertel to Kärnten, it is a special train of the ÖBB with militants. It is often on the storage track because it is not a regular, not a scheduled train. The militia's just up. the storage track – and the ÖVP Finance Ministers, adjusted by assistants, have put the Austrian Federal Army, especially the Miliz, on the storage track. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Deimek and Mr Lausch.]] Milizionaires, however, are transported not only by slow special trains, but also by private buses, by buses of the company Dr. Richard. Soldiers, militants are also carried around with these tourist buses, but this reminds less of professional use than rather of school trips of the 1970s. That can't be professional! The militia is de facto not fully operational, far away – and the Starlinger report, based on facts and knowledge and also on the knowledge of the General Staff, clearly reveals the situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] However, it must be said that in which militias also serve idealists, from specialized mechanic to cyber-specialist, and in this The meaning of the militia is really a strategic reserve, a significant personnel reserve of the Austrian federal army. This should be recognized and fully recognized by the Ministry and, of course, by the Federal Force's command. I therefore welcome this proposal. I would like to thank colleagues Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff for this initiative and I am pleased that this request will also be decided to evaluate this partial mobility of the militia critically and further. It would be wise and appropriate for the leadership, including the political leadership, to enable militants to develop and not to block them in this regard. An example: If you listen to in the militia of a unit that has been dissolved, it is like a stopboard for development in the Austrian Federal Army. This is a pity, because idealists are hindered by the good development of their qualities. I also believe that it is important to make the day of the militia more visible – I have heard positive signals from you – that does not cost much, that is not a great fight. Of course, we are primarily concerned with financial resources when it comes to safeguarding our national defence. The years of promises made here are all full, including many soldiers in the federal army. It was a heart for the army, a heart precipitated for the militia. The militia has lost dramatically to impact, operational capacity and mobility. However, there is a constitutional role of the Austrian federal army, and therefore the request for distrust was of course fully appropriate. The central importance of the military system for the Austrian state defense is obvious and clear. I think this is primarily one thing: to reactivate the mandatory exercises for the militia. The statements made by some speakers in particular by the ÖVP testify to incredible ignorance or to a beautiful speech that is incredibly irresponsible on the subject of national defence and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5900	Mr Bösch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5922	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to agree with this request. There have been some voices that have called into question the use of the militia, we have never done so because the most important thing in this commitment was to gain experience with which modalities we can really create, offer up, mobileize a larger number of troops. On 18.3.2020, there was the government decision, with which one then joined the public a few days later, and then only on 4.5.2020 13 hunters really got the order. 13 Jägerwellers are also engrossed on that day – that was no longer the 3,000 that had been announced in March, but only more in about 1,400 military soldiers. However, the use was already limited at the time, one has to realize that this number of military soldiers was no longer necessary in May. Therefore, even at the end of June, about half of these companies have been disarmed again and the rest then on 31.7. These efforts have led to preparatory training in security police assistance, in which these units were used. We have the obligation now to evaluate all these steps taken in the spring of this year. We must be aware that we need clear communication with those concerned, whether they are unlimited or temporary, is irrelevant. It is important to communicate clearly to the people that a provision of their units must be quickly possible, but that a commitment can also be completed quickly if the situation is dramatically improved. We need to improve communication with those concerned, and we also need to make the very clear statement that there will be no more different rewards. It was a major problem in this offer that there was almost 100 percent pay difference between the presence service and voluntary arms practice. All these are things that we need to see clearly and that we also need to take into account with regard to the legislative innovations that will be necessary in order to improve the whole and to lubricate the whole thing more so that it works better. In essence, however, I also believe that we will not pass the demand for mandatory exercises. Sooner or later, this call will have to be made, even without prejudice to the attempts you, Mrs Minister, are now making with these six plus three plus three; that is, after the six-month basic defence service, in which you can in principle no longer be used for assistance missions, you can volunteer for various missions that are at the border or abroad. The demand for six plus two, i.e. a mandatory rail in the training of the militia, will, I believe, remain necessary. We will also need to continue to review this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5973	Mr Stögmüller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e5994	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 2020 is a year in which the Covid-19 Pandemic will put in place a large number of measures in the short term, which will help to get this pandemic under control. The use of the militia and the subsequent sub-mobilisation decided on March are in any case part of it to implement these measures as well. Now this partial mobilization and assistance use should also be evaluated during the Covid-19 measures, all steps from the mobilization to disarmament. That's a good thing. I would also like to thank all the speakers and all the political groups for the decision today, and Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff for this initiative. I think it is important and also necessary to give Parliament the sign that we want such an evaluation. An evaluation of this commitment is intended to show both the strengths and weaknesses in the system and how we can benefit from improvement potential in the future. We have seen some problems in the mobilization, in the mobilization as well as in the equipment, but also in the use of whether it was in the postal distribution centre or in the food distribution center. That's exactly what we need to look at. We need to see if these uses are also useful and useful, because the goal is that the militia will also have sufficient resources to be prepared for the necessary tasks in the future. What is also a concern for us in this request is that there is enough time to carry out an evaluation that is given time to the Ministry to be able to provide a proper evaluation, to work out something decent and to deliver to us, because I think each of us has been helped if the militia is well equipped in the future and the challenges can well be met, whether it is within the framework of a pandemic, natural disasters, cyber attacks or even blackouts. Thank you to everyone for supporting this request today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6037	Mr Trauttmansdorff is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6058	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Since we will have to deal with each other for even longer, I am all the more pleased that we can now put this common sign here, because I believe that this is a very important issue – the previous speakers have addressed it. In March of this year, for the very first time, you made the militia part-mobile, and what, I think, should have been a monumental bang, unfortunately, has not been even a plopp, but rather a balloon, which slowly goes out of the air and which then gets shrunk. Originally, 3,000 soldiers were spoken of, and they were supposed to be made mobile. Of these, only 2 300 were convened and 40 percent of them were released. That is, in total, it was then 1 400 soldiers who then really trained for a longer period of time for use. I think it was just three weeks in which they were trained and prepared. However, 600 soldiers are then relatively quickly rearmed, of those originally 3,000 soldiers that we needed or who would have made normal mobilization, only nearly 800 remained. That, I think, shows quite clearly that not everything in this commitment has gone around. I personally believe that we were a bit too late, you should have responded earlier, so that you would really have been ready at the time of the biggest crisis – that was not the case. But we are also here to learn from this crisis, and that is why this evaluation is very important, because in the end it is so that we, as politicians, we as politicians and the ministry, bear the responsibility for it and not the individual military soldiers. They should not be those who feel that their work was bad and that's why things didn't work well. All the more important now is to evaluate seriously, to see what has worked well, what has less well works, to draw the lessons from it, and then, especially for the military soldiers, to really improve and change something. There were some first steps in this area. There has already been, in this year's budget, a special budget for the militia, and in the next budget there are also scarce 70 million euros, if I have the right one in my mind, which you provide for the equipment of the militia. Yes, these are first steps. But I think it also takes bigger steps: We need to think about how we can accelerate processes, how we can make things faster and more efficient, so that it is not like this time, that in the real acute case, a blackout, where it really has to go very, very fast, only 600 soldiers are left of 3,000 soldiers at the end. Accordingly, I am very glad that we are taking this step together today. I also believe that it is an important and good step in the right direction for the military soldiers. I hope that in the future we will be able to promote such initiatives together, because I think there is one thing that connects us all here, and that is that we want the best for the Austrian federal army. If we go together, discuss together, we can do so. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6106	Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6128	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Modern, striking, fast and always there, when the population needs it, that's our army, these are our soldiers who have shown this especially in this crisis. Our population must always be able to rely on our army. Since so much is now being discussed about the budget, it is important to say thank you, not least you, ladies and gentlemen, who have allowed us to have already this year with 2.5 billion euros, an increase of 9.9 percent in funds compared to 2019, the highest army budget that has ever been given. I hope that this first step – as I said months ago – will be followed by another step and we will be able to achieve an increase again. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] I promise you that I will work to ensure that our army has and gets everything to meet these requirements. But now to evaluate the use of militia: We welcome this, ladies and gentlemen, because I also see that after this first use of the militia there is quite a need for improvement and adaptation. We must resolve this together, and we must learn from these efforts during the Corona crisis. This has surprised us all, just in spring showing us how fast it can happen that our everyday life is thrown out of the train. This crisis has made it necessary for two actual historical measures: on the one hand, the extension of the basic defence service for 2 300 young men by two months, and on the other hand, because of the corona crisis, it was necessary for the first time in the history of Austria to carry out a partial mobilisation of the militia with 13 hunters. There were 1,400 soldiers of the militia in operation. They have done excellent work, so at this point again a very great thank you to all those! [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] There is no doubt, however, that there is also a need for change, which has already been addressed, such as the system-related different payment for the same tasks. We have already taken care of this, there is already a new legislative text that is under review in the next few weeks – because the same performance should and must be paid as well. We have also continued to address various social security disadvantages of military soldiers. In mid-September, two requests for amendment have been made to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Labour, because finally, the solution of this problem is not only a project in the government programme, but also a unanimous resolution by Parliament. In principle: The corona virus has shown its effects especially in spring, at the beginning of the pandemic, in an unknown, unexplored size, and we now all have the opportunity to learn from these missions together. As already shown by the Annual Security Perspective, pandemics belong to the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! Evaluations and Lessons learnned – especially in the military – are something original and a common procedure. Whether it be after national or international exercises or also missions, a high-quality evaluation takes time and we therefore welcome the amendment proposal, which also provides the Ministry with the necessary time. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6191	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6212	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! In advance, I can express my joy that you, Mrs Federal Minister, will continue to observe the agendas of the state defense in the Federal Government. [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] Your speech has shown that the German army is not only in good hands, but also in strong voice, both as regards the military and the present forces. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If, here, the opposition parties mount that the report of the former Minister Starlinger is not addressed, then I can only say, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, in particular of SPÖ and FPÖ: It is obvious that courage cannot be bought. [[Abg. That's right... super!]] What is the basis of this report? – This report is based on the achievements of your ministers. Who, then, were the Ministers of Defense who provided the services to which Starlingers referred? – These were Mr. Kunasek, Mr. Doskozil, Mr. Klug and Mr. Darabos. [[Abg. Lausch: Who was the Minister of Finance?]] [[Abg. Lausch: And who was the Minister of Finance?]] – Yes, if you can be pushed by the Minister of Finance to the storage track as you heard from the SPÖ, then you will come at your own door, but not in front of the others! [[Abg. Listen: Ha, ha!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is the task of every minister to negotiate the appropriate resources for his place of business, and Mrs Tanner has done it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Abg. Lausch: You're right... is very courageous!]] - I understand that you might see this with envy. But it does not change the truth, and it is reasonable to you too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lausch: But you too! ... very brave!]] As far as the militia is concerned, it is true that in the context of this first part-mobilization of the Miliz 1,700 soldiers, 13 hunters from all nine federal states were involved. This has shown that the Miliz represents the backbone of the German army that, if necessary, it can also ensure the willingness to use and the endurance. In my home state of Lower Austria, the assistance in border security, the protection of objects in the security of embassies and so on were the responsibility of the military, and above all, the militia in Lower Austria also replaced in the barracks those basic military servants whose ground defense service was extended. A total of 1 325,000 working hours have been carried out by the military soldiers, and in the end this use of the militia has been quite a success, although it will be possible to review in the context of the evaluation, where improvement potential has been achieved. We do not deny this, we are very much in favour of this evaluation report, and it is now time for us to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6362	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6383	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would also like to thank the soldiers of our Austrian federal army for their great work they have done during the Covid-19 Pandemic and which they will still do. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] The soldiers are an essential part of Austria's ability to cope well with this health crisis. Situations such as this show impressively – Mrs. Minister, you have already stressed – how important a well-positioned federal army is to us. The corona-related military operations are now running out nationally, and it is important to gather and evaluate the findings and experiences from this unique mobilization. That is exactly where my colleague's current motion goes, and that is why we support it from the SPÖ. As a committee member, I am particularly pleased that we have been able to make a five-party request. Our soldiers got up to land, land-based in various areas, and this shows how important individual federal armies are in the federal states. We need a army that is fast on the ground in emergency situations, so I am very clearly speaking out for the preservation of all current barracks locations in Austria. The individual political groups have all stressed in the debate the importance of the German army. That is why I can ask all parties to close their shoulders when, in the next few weeks, the budget discussion is about financing our armed forces. We know from experience reports, but also from the media how much our barracks are already financially starved. My colleague from the ÖVP has listed all the ministers of the state defence, but I would like to stress: 20 years of ÖVP finance ministers have brought us this financial disaster in the federal army. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There is a lack of money in many places, and urgent investments cannot be made. However, the army loses its position as an attractive employer. Unfortunately, young people stay out in many places. This is not the way we, the SPÖ, want us for the Austrian federal army. It takes more money, Mrs. Minister! The challenges for our soldiers are growing, whether they are pandemics, climate change, the fight against terrorism or the defence of cyber-attacks. Therefore, my final appeal: Let's look at our federal army! Let us help him with the budgetary resources it needs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6452	Mr Deputieser Reifenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6474	High house! Let me also say thank you from this point of view to all the comrades who have been in the security police service this year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have provided them with a high-reputable performance, even if they have not been paid off from the political leadership for this purpose and have been partially even over the media, rather than through the service route, as it would actually belong to it, with the proverbial step, and have been taken out of their service under some chaotic conditions. But now to the present resolution: An evaluation of this military deployment is essential. After all, this was the first part-mobilization in the history of our Republic, and not everything has gone as smoothly as Mrs. Minister might want us to know. Without being a light-seen now, however, I can already predict today that the evaluation will show problems in at least – but not only – three sub-areas that I will take a short break. The first problem that will emerge is the problem of so-called fixed-term soldiers. This is not a real military, because they never participate in a military exercise. These inadequately trained temporary orders, however, have placed almost 100 percent of all team service levels in the partial mobility, and thus a majority of all soldiers. The second problem that will show up is serious equipment failures. Our structured militia is also not nearly sufficiently equipped materially. For assistance use, equipment from all over Austria had to be literally scratched together, although only a few companies were in use, and these were such banal things as safety holsters, protective vests and, of course, vehicles. And the third point is the wrong to pay. [[The speaker shall place a panel on which, under the heading “Watchmaster” and the corresponding service mark “Presence Service: € 1,849,-”, “Voluntary Arms Exercise: € 3,559,-” and “Vocational Soldier: € 4,189,-” is to be read on the speaker’s desk.]] It must not be possible for soldiers with the same level of service and function to be paid in a massive way. Here on this Taferl you can see for example: A guard in the function of a group commander earns EUR 1 849 in the security police assistant service as a service provider, that is, a mobile soldier. If a military soldier makes a voluntary weapon exercise and thus goes into assistance, he earns with the same degree of service and function of 3 559 euros. And if a professional soldier is assigned to this function and goes into service, this 4 189 euros is earned. – This is a screaming injustice. [[Abg. That's right! Right!]] The application has shown serious shortcomings in the system which it is now necessary to fix. In the Committee, the Minister said that this assistance required a “power effort in the department”. So I think this statement is a witness of poverty. If such a small bet – only 13 companies and such a low-level bet, a covid bet – is already a challenge for the ministry, then I would not want to imagine how you would have been overwhelmed if you could not have planned the bet in the long term and if it had been a more robust bet. Mrs Bundesminister, you know very well that, according to our constitution, we have a military system, but we have not implemented this constitutional provision at the moment. That is why I ask you once again: Please stop this illegal state, ask Re-establish the constitutional state – as it would actually be in your own government program – and introduce the mandatory militias your predecessor Günther Platter abolished at that time! A militia that does not exercise regularly is not a militia, and that includes the team service levels. All other measures to strengthen the militia are only hypocrites of lips and unfit alibids without compulsory military exercises.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6524	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - No, I don't. Before we come to the vote, I ask the clubs if a part-session is to be held. – Well, then we can come to the vote. Vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 390 of the Supplements on 'Evaluation of military deployment'. I ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[106/E]] [[16:57:45]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 5, 8, 16, 20 and 23 as well as the Citizens' Initiatives No. 1, 10, 14 to 16, 23 and 24 (401 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6577	We're coming to the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6604	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting of the Committee on Petitions on 7 February, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover They all reflect the concerns of the population, which we accept with consideration and with caution. The fact that no more than three concerns are ultimately assigned to the specialist committees and nine are taken into account by us today is also linked to the fact that, of course, many petitions and citizens' initiatives will also receive various opinions by the next Committee meeting and that they can only be discussed again. One of these notes, which has been decided by majority vote, is a petition by Mr Muchich, in which it concerns the abolition of emergency aid. I'm fine. Mr Muchich wanted this petition to be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs, although it was sufficiently clear from the opinions that an abolition was not at all for discussion. Actually, a look at the government agreement would have sufficed, and this petition would have turned out to be unnecessary. By the way, colleagues in Muchich can say: It is not quite in keeping with the fact that a petition is being filed exactly on the subject that we have actually promised ourselves when we raised the emergency aid for this year to the level of unemployment aid, so that people in the corona-related situation are properly improved. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] We are not in favour of keeping topics on the table, whose treatment is no longer necessary, because they have been inadequate. Two citizens' initiatives, which should have been in the Committee on Social Affairs at the request of the SPÖ, have behaved in a similar way. There is a request made by Mr Muchitsch, which is identical to that of a citizen initiative, namely Amendment 140/A. The citizens’ initiative is about ‘Constitutional security of the statutory pension system in accordance with the charging procedure’. In the Committee's opinion, there were twelve opinions. If the issue has already been dealt with so intensively, it is not really necessary to send it back to committee. However, a comment was already allowed: For us, aging in dignity is an important point, and this, of course, includes the financial aspect. We are working on it, but we do not think that a complete reshaping of the system is a target. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] At the same time, we see that we have allocated two initiatives from the social field to the technical committee. On the one hand, this is a citizen's initiative on night-to-night hours for workers in the social field, for example in the care sector, and on the other hand on people with disabilities. We believe that it is useful for these issues to be deepened and further discussed in the relevant specialist committee. We have also decided unanimously on this request for allocation. If one lets the last part-session happen, it is clear that we are very careful about the issues and, of course, we are considering exactly what can be concluded, what needs to be further discussed and on which issues still need to be taken up. There are also things that have developed further in the meantime: Mr Gahr had filed a petition concerning the police inspection of Zirl, which called for their modernisation – it is now in progress, he will certainly say something to that effect. So I think that the Committee on Petitions was working very constructively again during the last session.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6661	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6686	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make a comment on another subject because I am just so surprised. I was in the People's Procuratorate Committee during the last legislative period, and during this period I was in the Court of Auditors and the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, and I cannot deal with this time that: It is at 5 p.m. to deal with issues from this committee, which I think is very important. Usually these are always the committees, whose contents we are putting at the end of the agenda today, today the agenda is already exhausted a little earlier. My appeal to all parties, including my own, would therefore be to consider the preparation of the agenda with regard to the reports from these committees. Does the debate on the reports from the Committee on Petitions always have to be put to the end of the agenda, or could it not be deliberately initiated much earlier? This is really about legitimate citizens' concerns, and it is also about treating them so to speak at a Christian time. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bernhard.]] I would now like to refer specifically to a citizens' initiative, namely that “for banknote fees – for free access to your own cash in Austria!”. In 2018, the Constitutional Court repealed the law in question of the red and black government, and since then we have been in a bit empty space on this issue. At this point it was also said to the FPÖ address: As long as you were in the government, unfortunately you did not set up a lot of activities in the Consumer Protection Committee and beyond to do repairs in this regard. Now it seems to continue with the ÖVP in this direction – clearly – only with another coalition partner. In the meantime, we have been waiting for a repair for three years, so that you can still get your money from the banker without any fees in the future. We know that it starts slowly with us in the big cities, for example in Vienna – but this year I was, even before Corona, in Berlin, and if you want to cancel cash there, you have to look very, very long to find a banknote where you don't pay any fees for your own cash. In order to stop this development from the start, I think, it is important that Parliament now becomes active. I would also like to thank all the members of the Committee on Petitions who have made sure that this petition goes further into the Consumer Protection Committee. Unfortunately, I remember the last meeting of the Consumer Protection Committee: I would be really happy if there were not to be the funeral of the first class there by adjourning the request, but that it was really seriously discussed on this subject. We really need to introduce a legal regime because, as I believe, all of us here in Parliament have an order to make policy for citizens, not for the banking lobby. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6737	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ries. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6761	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The citizens’ initiative concerning ‘night hours’ for all workers in care facilities is aimed at ensuring equality between caregivers and nurses in the night shift. The concern is certainly supported by many, if not all here in the house. What's this about? – It is about providing 2 hours of time for night-services provided that they have lasted at least 6 hours a day, provided that more than one third of the service time is spent directly on the patient, and this is done in a hospital or in a nursing home. What's it all about? – It is based on a formulation in the Night Heavy Labour Act. As mentioned above, it takes a care station in a nursing home for the night shifts. Care stations, in turn, are only available for 4 and upward care patients, and not all care homes offer such a station. This is what many nursing home operators are taking on the occasion of failing to pay this allowance during the night shift. We consider the citizens' initiative's demand to be justified and to support it fully, because people in homes without care stations also need to pay and care during the night. You need to know: The age of entry of people in the home is increasing, and the number of dementia diseases is also increasing, which is empirically detectable. Not all are classed in level 4 or above – but also persons under level 4 need this care and care. The initiators of this initiative must therefore be obliged to amend this federal law. Interesting is the opinion of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Family and Youth. This opinion lists and quotes various wordings from the national laws and then gives the good advice, but may one enter into negotiations with the countries. But that's exactly the problem: The same benefits are granted in a federal state and then not in the neighbouring state, therefore it is necessary to make this federal provision. Ladies and gentlemen, the corona clasp was a nice action, but nobody who works in the care has something of it in the long run. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Let us talk to the ladies and gentlemen in the care: They want recognition and Austrian equal treatment. In our opinion, it is necessary to redefine the care allowance, to evaluate the classifications, the possibility of a permanent care leave for caregivers and to improve the conditions for persons in the care as a whole. I therefore personally filed a petition in order to finally get some momentum into the matter and also remind the government parties that this issue is part of the government programme. Finally, it's about our older generation, and it's really earned better.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6810	Next speaker: Mrs Ulrike Fischer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6831	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the petitions in the committee, it becomes clear quickly: Some of our communities do not fulfil what we citizens want us to do. It is the regionality that no longer works, and in which, I think, we as the Republic of Austria are invited to invest sufficiently on the one hand and put in place steering measures on the other. I would like to take two examples. First of all, the police inspections, in the specific case, are the police inspection Zirl. Motorised traffic, motorway connections, heavy traffic is becoming increasingly important to ensure that road traffic is well controlled. This initiative shows that it is important to invest sufficiently in the area of police. As already mentioned in the budget speech today: In 2021 we will increase the police budget by around 7 percent, and that is good, because we need to invest in road safety accordingly. This requires police officers. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It also needs barrier-free police inspections, because it does not help if someone needs help, but can't call for help because he can't reach the police inspection because it's closed or not accessible. That's one. The Second is: If we want regionality, we also need to have access to our cash, and therefore it is important that banknotes remain in the regions, where there are no Greißlers, no more shops. It is important that cashless traffic is possible and that it is also invested to make online access easier. On the other hand, it is quite correct and good that there are cashback options, for example, that you can get money in the guest house, that there is the possibility of banking days at municipal offices, but also that banknotes are available for free settlement and that this offer will not be thinned out. The last point: I think it is important and right, and this has also shown today our budget that we are investing in the communities, because if the communities have sufficient financial opportunities, they can also dispel difficulties. In our community, for example, we have a Euronet banknote, for which the community pays the fee, so that our citizens can cancel it free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6876	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6901	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Finally, we had a very exciting and busy meeting of the Committee on Petitions with over 60 agenda items. It was a very broad spectrum of content. I think it was a very good meeting because we actually got very concrete things on. We have already heard from my previous speakers that the modernisation of a police inspection in Zirl has been postponed. That is where I see a connection with the Committee on Petitions. I should like to remind my colleagues Yannick Shettyer, who has made a petition to remove discrimination against homosexuals in the blood donation. It seems that the application of the petition to the Minister of Health has been a miracle. In other citizens' initiatives too, however, something has gone further, such as a citizens' initiative, which has dealt with discrimination against people with disabilities through legislation, which has now continued in the specialist committee. The issue of banking charges has already been addressed. We have therefore debated specific citizens' issues in terms of content, received documents from the ministries, and with several wishes, with several specific concerns, it has been possible to come up with solutions or pass them on to the technical committee. I think it is a good news for the House, no matter what the Group of the European People's Party, that citizens are being taken seriously. This can be given the opportunity to increase our confidence in this committee and to put in place further concrete measures to enhance it accordingly. A Citizens' Committee, in which citizens cannot participate, is a rather lame petition committee. I think that would be the perfect committee to try out the opening of the committees – that is a wish I would like to place here in the House every time. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] In this sense, I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at us today at the debate, to address your concerns directly to the House. For a long time, there has been no party book, and the opportunities are good to be heard directly. We're counting on you. A nice evening! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6952	Next speaker: Mrs Carina Reiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e6976	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators at home and at the top of the gallery! My previous speakers have already addressed some citizens' initiatives and petitions. I would like to stress once again the petition on “Improved financing opportunities for projects in the field of climate and energy”. The petition has been launched by the Pongauer Energy Center, since the Climate and Energy Fund is federal competence. The Climate and Energy Fund has the task of supporting its various programmes and initiatives so that we can achieve the set objective of our Federal Government from CO2 neutrality by 2040. It is an extremely high goal, of which we must be aware. Accordingly, we also need to work consistently at this without losing our ground liability. The fund's core task is to build bridges directly to local people in the localities, in the regions and in the cities, to support innovative solutions and technologies from Austria and to put them on the market quickly. The measures and initiatives supported and supported by these funds are extremely diverse and cover many important areas: from the energy transition with support in the field of solar, photovoltaic and thermal insulation over the mobility transition to research programmes in the field of development which are being promoted. The formation of consciousness in the sign of motivating people instead of harbinging them is also an important part of the fund. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Specific implementation examples for the city of the future are supported. For example, projects in 36 smart cities and 6 smart urban regions, such as the city of Salzburg, Hallein or Zell am See, will be implemented, covering a total of around 4 million people. For our regions, it is also possible to apply as a climate and energy model region. There are already 96 such regions in 841 municipalities implementing climate protection projects. By the way, the invitation to tender is until 23. October open, for all those who are interested in it. With us in Salzburg, the Saalachtal, the Oberpinzgau and the Lungau are already such regions, and there is definitely a great opportunity to network, use synergies and exchange knowledge. As mentioned above, it is the task of the Climate and Energy Fund to build bridges. We have to start at the base, and I am again with the municipalities and regions, with the citizens. There's a lot to be done. The necessary support and support instruments are available, and they need to be adapted and developed again and again. Climate protection is a living process that can only succeed together. It needs the big measures as well as the small ones. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It also needs the right tools to enable and promote participation in climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7026	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7055	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! We have already heard that we have worked on extensive petitions and citizens' initiatives in the Committee, a total of 64, and this shows how important Austrians are and how citizens' participation in Austria works – and that is also good. 418 supporters have had the petition “NOT for the abolition of emergency aid”, which we unfortunately end today. The SPÖ wanted to continue to discuss this petition in the Committee, but unfortunately there was no majority in favour of it. For the explanation: There are many cases where the abolition of emergency aid and the subsequent reference of social assistance – prior minimum insurance – would have serious consequences for the families concerned. An example of my everyday life, which has landed on my desk, is Klaus. He lost his job because of the Corona crisis at the age of 59. During his 20-year-old job, he saved every cent so that he could secure his disabled twins as much as possible. Should emergency aid be abolished, he would have to use up all this saved money before he is entitled to social assistance. For people like Klaus, the abolition of emergency aid would be a personal disaster. Especially in these uncertain times, we need a clear commitment to our social security network, to our safety net, and this also includes emergency aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Families and especially women are heavily burdened in the corona crisis. The multiple loads, which we have heard many times, are on the shoulders of women: Home office, home schooling, concern for relatives who may suffer from risk groups, and also the fear of job loss is enormous. For women not to be disproportionately affected by the effects of the crisis, a comprehensive package of measures is needed. The increase in unemployment benefit to 70 percent net replacement rate, the extension of the period of reference and the increase in emergency aid are necessary measures, and the advisory bodies with much stronger access need significantly more financial resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Single parents and other particularly affected groups need individual and rapid help. For this we need broad support of the petition “The Corona crisis must not go at the expense of women”, and that is possible and necessary at any time. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7100	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7122	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Petitions is an important, if not the most important instrument for citizens' participation: 64 agenda items, 76 decisions were taken on the basis of an opinion, expert knowledge will be gathered and discussed. The petition for the police inspection of Zirl, brought in by Mr Hermann Gahr, is, I believe, an example of the fact that citizens, that communities are heard, that a petition is effective, that changes are also possible. At this point also a thank you to the market community Zirl, also to the municipal council and to the mayor Thomas Öfner, to the municipality which has been very committed and fought for this general provision in Tyrol. It is our job to be able to support the provision of services to honourable Members. Close-up supply by blue-light organisations must remain secure, and it needs support at all levels, not only for buildings and for a fleet, but also, of course, for the provision of the necessary staff. The police inspection will not be moved, planning and manufacturing are definitely in progress. The second petition, which, I believe, is very interesting and important when it comes to climate and energy objectives, is the petition from the Pongau – the colleague has already mentioned it – a very important initiative, if there are projects being submitted. Briefly to remember: In the last 12 years, since the climate and energy funds have existed, 144,000 projects have been submitted and handled. This is an essential contribution to the energy transition, and in the budget – because we were considering today the 2020 budget, especially as regards the provision of the climate and energy funds – 158 million euros, 58 million euros more in comparison to the energy transition, for the climate and energy funds. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, in the case of the petition, there is also the need for a financial concept to be presented, that project risks and also climate and energy policy objectives are adequately presented. There have been problems in this specific proposal, and I hope that this project will also come into play when it comes to re-submission, when it comes to further employment. Last thing about Toll Liberation: As you know, we have already decided four toll exemptions here at the Hohe Haus in November 2019. For further toll exemptions, as well as the one here, I think it is necessary to evaluate the impact objectives: How did these Toll Liberations work, especially the Toll Liberation in Kufstein? What conclusions can be drawn from it and interpreted as well? Then, I think, it is possible that with this wealth of knowledge and with this experience, you can also look at further toll exemptions, further measures also in the secondary road system, evaluate them, examine them and implement them accordingly. Thank you for the good cooperation with the chairman of the Committee on Petitions and with all our colleagues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7176	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7200	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned in my speech last night that we were able to achieve great success with our parliamentary petition at the end of the ban on blood donation for homosexual and bisexual men, even though the petition may not have led directly but indirectly to it. I may, because yesterday the opportunity was no longer there, perhaps a little help in chronology, because one has the impression that colleague Dziedzic had slight memory failures out here and, as I find, quite - - [[Abg. Straster: Hey! Hey! That's real - -!]] [[Abg. Haubner:... superlative!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7240	Mr President, I would like to ask you to be moderate and to take it back.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7256	Yeah, good. It was my impression that the memory at least did not correspond entirely to the way it actually happened. I think that she too – namely Mrs Colleague, who is there no one. has been lying – quite out of date and has acquired the superior government speech of the ÖVP. So maybe again on the facts of how the Greens behaved in terms of blood donation bans: First of all, in spring we made a request to Federal Minister Anschober. That was the answer, no, he sees no discrimination in the blood donation, an evaluation of the scheme is not necessary. Second step: We as NEOS have launched a parliamentary petition in July, which has received more than 2,000 support within a few days and is by the way the most successful parliamentary petition in this legislative period. To this petition, third, Federal Minister Anschober replied in an opinion two weeks ago: There is no discrimination in the Blood Donor Regulation and he sees no need to amend the Blood Donor Regulation. Fourthly, a week before the Vienna election, the pressure was probably so large that he moved in six days before the Vienna election and put down a 180-degree drive. Of course, we have also deliberately exploited this window of time, because we were already aware that it would probably not go out for the greens to place: “Whoever does equality, if not we”, and at the same time to stand on the brake on this topic. That is to say, this issue is a good example of the fact that the Greens very much need the pressure from the opposition, from civil society, so that something really goes on. Especially in times of Corona, an end to this blood donor ban is also essential because we depend on every blood donation, especially on the blood plasma donation, and therefore we should not rely on generally abstract characteristics, but on individual risk behaviour. The European Court of Justice has also ruled that the general exclusion of homosexual and bisexual men from the donation of the Union is illegal, so there is also a legal need for us to act there. Five days before the Vienna election, Anschober made a 180-degree turnaround and then sent out a broadcast, with the text: “Discrimination-free blood donation should be possible” this year. Unfortunately, however, we know that Federal Minister Anschhober is the world's champion of announcement and not implementation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Loacker can sing a song of it in other contexts. It is a first success, therefore, to announce this, but we want to make a commitment to incitement, and that is why, by the way, in the text of the issue, I am presenting today the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[17:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7383	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7410	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The collective report also contains two citizens' initiatives on pensions, which I would like to address briefly. Pension policy, even if at first glance it does not look like that, is purely youth policy. A sustainable pension policy is clearly a question of gender equality. Good news ahead: We Austrians live longer and longer. Life expectancy has risen by more than 7 years since the 1970s, and that is also good. The bad news, however, is that our pension system has hardly changed since then. If people have spent 16 years in retirement, it is now over 24 years. So the average Austrian is in retirement for as long as I am now in this world. The basis for a good pension system is a working generation contract. Whether this generation contract can be maintained in its current form is, in my view, a legitimate question. The Austrian pension system is basically a payment system. Today's employees come up for today's pensions, always with the agreement that for them the following generations will pay the pension contributions as well. Even today, however, the Federal Government is leaping for missing pension contributions and is spending more than 20 billion euros a year, and the trend is strongly rising. [[Abg. Loacker: You decide pension gifts!]] The number of persons employed continues to decline, while the number of pensioners increases at the same time. As a People's Party, we are clearly committed to the Generational Treaty. However, generation-righteousness must not be a one-way road in our eyes. In our pension system, we urgently need to take measures to bring about the actual retirement age. Decisions, such as the reintroduction of the discount-free early pension, are exactly the wrong way, and I am looking at the SPÖ and FPÖ colleagues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you go to retirement earlier, you have to count on the corresponding supplements. Whoever goes into retirement later is expected to receive supplements. We must address this in the interest of the next generations, because only then can we speak of a fair pension system, only then can we raise the actual retirement age to the legal one in the long term. Finally, one word in general: For us as a People's Party, and it remains clear who works and pays for his life in the system, he should get more in the end. Everyone has worked out his pension hard and more than deserved, so in particular we have clearly raised the small pensions. In the same way, women must not suffer a financial disadvantage if they choose children. In order to reduce and counteract pension scarcity and poverty, especially among women, it is urgent and at last necessary to split the pension automatically. [[Abg. Loacker: It's...! That doesn't make any sense!]] I am sure that, together with the Greens, we will take the right measures in the coalition in a timely manner. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7478	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7503	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! 64 petitions or citizens' initiatives existed in the last committee. This is very encouraging from a democratic point of view, but unfortunately not all petitions and citizens' initiatives in the various specialist committees do. Mr Prinz von der ÖVP referred to the petition “No to abolish emergency aid” and said that this is actually not a matter in the current government coalition. – I am very pleased to hear that. I can also remember, however, that in the government of the Federal Chancellor himself the discussion on the abolition of emergency aid has begun and brought things like access to private property et cetera, et cetera. We all know very well: If emergency aid were to be abolished, people from unemployment would fall directly into social assistance and thus into absolute poverty. The removal of emergency aid, who wants it and who seeks it, does not fight unemployment, but fights the unemployed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also remember the Minister of Social Affairs, who said that of 150 euros per month, you can easily live. I also know that in the 2019 election campaign, the ÖVP was the only party that did not give an opinion on the emergency aid when the Austrian Trade Union Confederation questioned all the political groups. That is why I do not believe that this is so clear for all political groups that emergency aid will always remain. On the other hand, Mr Ries has already said that the topic of night-time hours for workers in the care facilities has been assigned to the Committee. What's this about? – It is about the fact that caregivers who work between 22 and 6 hours early receive at least 6 hours a credit of 2 hours. It is a loophole in the night heavy work law, some care facilities – they are specifically care stations – do not explain this. We believe that this law has been repaired. I hope that the Committee will reach a quick and fair agreement for workers, especially for women employed in care facilities, because, without exception, all workers in care facilities do incredible, and not only in the crisis, they are a support for society and for the health system. From the point of view of social democracy, these caregivers are the true service providers in our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My predecessor has responded to the pension scheme. I would like to say that there is a citizens' initiative signed by more than 40 000 people, which calls for the constitutional protection of the statutory pension system. What exactly is it about? – This is also about young people, about the younger generation. We all know that the payment system in the pension system is much more critical than the capital system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Austria has often gone through crises, and people who retired after 1945 have also received their pension. I have just had the impression in the colleague's speech that you have to apologize for being retired for 24 years. That was our goal! That was our social policy goal, that people who work for a lifetime can enjoy their evening of life. Congratulations to all of us that we've done this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As there is always the discussion about the state grants: State subsidies have remained the same in terms of gross domestic product over the last 30 years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7587	Next speaker: Mrs Heike Grebien. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7616	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Trustees at home! In my speech today, I am addressing the Citizens' Initiative on “Discrimination of people with disabilities through Austrian legislation”. The criticism refers to the current situation of people with disabilities due to the assignment of the PVA to incapacity for work or to the ability to work. Often people with disabilities are considered very, very quickly after leaving school as inability to work. As you all know, this means the daily workshop: Pocket money instead of wages. Incapacity for work means not having a right to action by the AMS or other professional qualification measures, there is no right to illness or other workers' rights, such as the establishment of a works council. The persons concerned are therefore entirely dependent on social benefits and have no way of saving their assets. Either way? The main criticism of the citizens' initiative is the criteria by which the PVA testifies people with disabilities to workability or incapacity for work. These criteria are based solely on the medical model of disability and not on the social model of disability, as required by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled and by the Greens. For you to compare that you can distinguish the medical model and the social model, I go first to the medical: The medical model of disability sees disability as a disease or physically fixed atoning, which has negative effects on quality of life. That is, in this model the problem location is the individual, the body of the individual. An example of this: Because she can't go, she can't take part in the third floor meeting. On the other hand, the social model of disability is: Disability leads to disability through socially excluded mechanisms. In other words, Human beings are not disabled, human beings are disabled. So there is a clear view of problem location in the environment, i.e. the barriers that come from society and prevent someone from participating. An example of this: Because there is no lift, they cannot take part in the meeting. I would now like to give you a real example – I changed the name of course – so that you might understand a little what that means: Ms. Superwoman is 25 years young. She works in a library for two years. In the library, because there was no support on the ground, they were taken to the basement. There no one knew from the other employees that this person was there at all. In the case of questions, no one was there to which she could have addressed, and in the period of work she was muttered because the employees were not trained that this was a woman with disabilities. So, then she quits because she doesn't hold it after two years, becomes unemployed, goes to the AMS. The AMS is trying to be fair, but as we know, stereotypes about people with disabilities are also hindering some companies from recruiting them. So the AMS is hard to communicate. What's the AMS doing? – It sends Ms. Superwoman to the so-called health street. This is the review of the PVA. There, because of her disability, Mrs. Superwoman was asked to certify the incapacity for work. – Medical model. The whole family is behind it. She's had great youth coaches. They're intervening. The mother makes a complaint to God to the disabled lawyer, and in the short term, incapacity for work is not expressed. After not even two months, Mrs. Superwoman finds a job in the gastronomy alone. She likes it very much, she's still there. Now imagine: If the PVA had already worked with the criteria of the social model, i.e. involving Mrs. Superwoman's environment and the environment and thus also seen her further possibilities, then it would not have come that far to take these steps so that she could not become incompetent. On the basis of this example, I would simply like to appeal to you that in our political work, please, for people with disabilities, we open the doors to the labour market, that we give them opportunities and believe in their potential. We Greens have also noted, in the government negotiations on this petition or on the content, that the inability to work under 24 years of age can be re-examined. As you all know, there's been an all-party request. Similarly, a study on incapacity for work and ability to work at the University of Klagenfurt was commissioned in spring 2019 at the suggestion of the ATF Advisory Board. It is expected to be finished in spring 2021. The aim of the study is to raise the status quo of the current legal situation and practice for determining the ability and inability to work and to make recommendations in the sense of inclusion for us politicians. I very much hope that there will be good solutions. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the people of Reutte, for they have launched this citizens' initiative. I would generally like to mention Reutte for the tireless struggle for including education in the last decades. At this point, all of you have a hint of an event that, as you know, is personally at my heart: We've got 17 next month. November our awareness-raising morning. I ask you: Why don't you ask people about their school experiences? Ask how the work experiences were for them! Ask, above all, how the experiences in everyday life are, and please meet people at eye level, honestly and courageously, as do the people in Reutte! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7681	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7705	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The debate shows that there are a wide variety of issues that are being brought directly here, to Parliament. The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has, in the last place, been intensive and has dealt with 64 petitions and citizens' initiatives. This shows that many different topics – transport, environment, health, social affairs, infrastructure, municipal affairs – are directly on the way to the High House, in the parliamentary process – and I believe that this should work. Mr Weratschnig stressed: This is actually the direct contact of citizens: With petitions and citizens' initiatives, you can directly appeal to citizens if you can present 500 signatures or do so directly through a Member. I can invite everyone to participate actively. The diversity shows that the direct path is being sought and that this can work properly and well without a party policy background. This also demonstrates our work in the Committee, because it is largely possible for us to agree on the opinions and the background, and to deal with every petition or citizens' initiative properly. Thank you also to the chairman for having a very balanced effect and involving us and the speakers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am allowed to replicate briefly on a petition handed over to me by the municipality of Zirl, Vice-Chairman Iris Zangerl-Walser. The aim was to discuss over ten years of a police inspection site and There was actually no unity. In the meantime, this police inspection is outdated. It does not meet the standards of sanitation and working conditions at all. It was now time to end some discussions. It was also discussed about the location about whether to receive it. Zirl is a municipality in the Inntal region of Tyrol, Germany. I think it was right to see the status, and it was found. In the petition it was about modernisation and preservation. From the Ministry of the Interior there has been a short but very concise opinion: Yes, the location will be preserved; yes, there will be an adaptation of this location. I should like to thank the Federal Minister and his staff for a clear answer and a clear mandate for the future. I can also thank Mrs. Vice-Chairman for taking this into her hand. Now it's about putting things into practice. This petition has opened a certain way. This is how processes are supposed to work. In this sense: Thank you all so much! We hope soon that we will receive a new police inspection in Zirl and the requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7756	Next speaker: Mr Robert Laimer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7781	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! Unfortunately, there are many hypocrites in morality as in religion. – The philosopher Helvétius already knew this in the 18th century. ==References== This is also reflected in the “Freedom for Julian Assange” citizens’ initiative. In the face of hypocrisy, an unworthy spectacle is taking place right in front of our eyes.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7799	Deputies! We don't use that word. We have also agreed not to use quotations in which words such as hypocrites and hypocrisy occur. That means I'm trying to get that back, and you can continue in your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7814	Let's talk about double-moral or double-beddedness! It's about two prominent regime critics. One has made it a task to expose the most serious war crimes in the USA, the other is trying to fight corruption in Russia. However, one, namely Alexei Nawalny, after a poison attack, whose authorship until now could not be clearly demonstrated how a high-ranking state guest is courted, the other, including Julian Assange, is treated as the devil's most personal. Scandalous detention conditions, a highly dubious charge, a constructed process and the prospect of extradition to the United States including death penalty have made an investigative journalist and courageous discoverer a broken man. His reporting on targeted killings of civilians by the military was more than detrimental to his health. This double morale, which is being displayed there, is actually difficult to question in terms of human rights policy. In this context, the role of the media is also to be questioned in general. Clearly, it makes a big difference in which direction one makes his political activism Let's go, let's go. Nawalny, who has addressed his agenda against the Russian president, is often presented to the public as a hero. No one in Europe seems to be aware that his political content corresponds to some of the dumped nationalist propaganda – the main thing is that he uses the hostile image of Putin, because then the applause is certain to him. It's different with Assange: He focused on the making of banks, corrupt political clans, Scientology, intelligence services and the U.S. military – all of them heavy-weight opponents. With Wikileaks he has managed to establish a revelation platform, but unlike Nawalny, Assange is the Bad Boy, whom you seek life. He turned the US into an enemy, and that was his big mistake. It is high time we raise the voice, show propriety and put an end to this double morale. It's about more than the fate of a courted journalist. It is about human rights, it is about freedom of the press, it is about democracy, and it is also about the rule of law. If these values are important to us, we must set a sign here and today. Take the Citizens' Initiative “Freedom for Julian Assange – No Political Prisoners in Europe” and put ourselves on the side of human rights! Let us call together for the release of a politically motivated prisoner who has committed himself to the invention of truth! I also ask the Minister of the Interior, the Foreign Minister and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for clear words on this matter. The way in which the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the citizens' initiative takes place is like a footing against freedom and human rights. It is not even a question of taking a position as the Minister of the Interior has done, it is cynical and inspectible anyway. Let's put an end to double morality! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7869	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Minnich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7893	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Appreciate spectators at home! My previous speakers have already said it: We have dealt with 64 petitions in the last Committee on Petitions. I would like to refer to a petition today – the petition number 16, “Global access for drugs, vaccines and diagnostics financed by public research funds to combat COVID-19”, dated 22.4.2020. Never before in history has there been such extensive worldwide cooperation in the investigation of a vaccine or drug for the treatment of a disease. The development and testing of both an effective vaccine and a medical treatment regarding Covid-19 have top priority in Austria and worldwide. With the progress of research in this area, we are ensuring the way out of this crisis. The fact that this is about health in an inseparable context with the economy, our social life and all our prosperity is here, I believe, no one is questioning. That is why the Federal Government has made 23 million euros available for drug research. Of course, the development of necessary medicines and a vaccine is part of this solution. The access of the population to these resources is crucial in the future. This circumstance is known to all of us as well as to the entire federal government, and the expectations will be fulfilled to the highest extent – I am sure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank you for this initiative and assure you that the concerns have been comprehensible and arrived. We will look specifically at making it possible to access the resources needed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7931	Next item is the report by Mr Christoph Zarits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7956	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to deal with the petition of Mr Muchich: ‘No to abolish emergency aid’. Mr Principal has already said very, very much in his statement of entry. It's clear to us: Anyone who needs help in Austria will also get help. This is our moral, political and social responsibility. We have just seen in the crisis that the social system works very, very well, and we have also clearly agreed in the government programme – to read on page 234 – that we have to preserve social security and that it must also provide people with it. That is our responsibility, and that is what we stand for. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not crucial what is being said here, but what we have achieved together in recent weeks and months. I would be very, very grateful if the colleagues from Social Democracy would also mention these things – that would be very, very good for the debate. We have achieved, for the unemployed, and especially for the people who are currently providing emergency aid, that we paid a single payment of 450 euros in September. We have also managed – and I am proud of that – that during the Corona crisis no one will fall into emergency aid, and we have extended this measure until 31.12.2020. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] You see, we have put very, very many measures to help those people who need our help, that is, those who are in short work who have become unemployed or who are in need of emergency aid, quickly and unbureaucratically. For example, I also remember the child bonus of 360 euros per child, which was paid in September: 653 million euros were made available to families. [[Abg. Loacker: 183 Members also got the bonus!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as mentioned earlier, it is our responsibility that we give this help to people who live in Austria and need our help. Whoever needs help should get it. This is also enshrined in the government programme – and that is good.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e7996	Next speaker: Mr Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8018	Madam President. High house! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians! A warm thank you to all you have spent this summer in Austria! Of course, I would like to thank all those of you who have come to Carinthia. Carinthia is a wonderful federal country and has really enjoyed being host to you. I would like to dedicate my contribution to the petition “For clear rules at Tuning meetings in Austria”. We have a GTI meeting in Reifnitz in Carinthia. This always runs smoothly and is not to be thought away from the tourist calendar. However, there are problems with meetings that are not organized, not approved and which take place before or after that. I would also like to expressly say: It's not about a special car brand, it's a lot of young people who, of course, want to have a lot of fun with each other, but there are also some who cover it, and unfortunately there's an excretion such as illegal road race or rubber-gummi duels, or just false inflammation. That is why the locals and the tourism industry have joined forces and said: We are pleased that guests come to us – they are all welcome – but we ask that rules of play, laws and the practices of a good, fair co-operation not be covered, but clearly respected. For this reason, this petition has set itself the goal of dealing with Parliament so that we can jointly reflect on how we can inculcate some legislation in order to make the excretes the way out and thus make a successful contribution to tourism in Austria, but also to youth culture in the sense of a good and common relationship. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In this sense, I would like to thank my fellow Members for sharing and consulting together with the relevant Federal Ministers in order to work together to find appropriate arrangements so that we can continue to cultivate our usual good Austrian cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8060	Next speaker: Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8084	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would like to say in advance that, I believe, it is not often enough to emphasize – because I think it is simply not everybody – that it is really very essential and actually not so difficult to bring a citizens' initiative to the House. 500 signatures are sufficient for it to be treated here. It is not always treated here: Let me turn a sidestep into a debate that we held last time – "Towards the wide-track." I come from the Bruck region at Leitha, the Neusiedl district at the lake and the Baden district. This citizens' initiative has been turned off and stopped. But they will not implement this, because we will continue to be very loud about it in our regions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say that because today the ÖVP was so praised that all this would be taken so seriously. Let me also address a citizens' initiative, which today is on the agenda in the collective report, namely “discrimination of people with disabilities through Austrian legislation”. Discrimination of people with disabilities unfortunately accompanies us in many, many situations of life. In this context, it is also very clear about the world of work and jobs as well as the labour market. This initiative has accompanied the House for a long time, a few years, the more central and important it is, in the sense of people with disabilities and, above all, in the sense of the Signatories, that it is now finally being dealt with in the relevant technical committee. This is, I believe, an essential success if the issue is really to be dealt with successfully and positively. Speaking of discrimination, ladies and gentlemen: We talked yesterday about the third-generation entry – remember? – i.e., interpersonals and transceivers. Mr Shetty has made it the subject today: We still have discrimination in the most diverse situations of life with regard to sexual orientation. I think you all know the slogan “Blood Donations Save Life”. – But this is still a group of people, namely homosexual and bisexual people. This is unfair, that is unfair, and that is especially discriminatory – and we must finally stop it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] We have been treating this as a social democracy for a very long time. I would like to refer to my colleague Mario Lindner, the soho chairperson, who has done this with all the vehemence here in the house and who is, of course, a voice tube for a whole community – and we are fighting quite clearly side by side there. Yes, there was a positive sign from the Minister of Health, not a question, this was in October, but as has already been said: There's nothing about announcements. It is now a matter of getting real implementation: Get away with this discrimination as far as the blood donation is concerned! I should therefore like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] There is a need for freedom of discrimination – not only in the questionnaire, but above all in the regulation. That is what we are calling for, and I ask for approval. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[18:02]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8225	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. No one has made any mention of this, so this debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can proceed with the votes immediately. - All right, I'll go that way. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 401 of the additions to petitions Nos 5, 8, 16, 20 and 23, as well as of the Citizens' Initiatives Nos 1, 10, 14 to 16, 23 and 24. Whoever agrees to take note of the matter, I ask for the sign to be accepted. – This has been unanimously noted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues on the implementation of non-discrimination-free blood donation by the end of 2020. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues on 'discrimination-free blood donation now'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. [[18:04:46]] 8. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna, GZ. 504 St 47/20p, for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council III. President Ing. Norbert Hofer(407 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8313	This means we can reach the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of a word, so I will close the debate again. I ask whether the rapporteur wishes a final word. – That is not the case either. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Immunities in 407 of the supplements to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna for approval of the criminal prosecution of the Deputies to the National Council and the Third President of the National Council Norbert Hofer, in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the Member of the National Council and the third President of the Norbert Hofer National Council. An official persecution of the Member of the National Council and the Third President of the Norbert Hofer National Council is not approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow the request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[18:06:27]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Dr Stephanie Krisper, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (787/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8371	That's what we're going to get to the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate immediately. Mrs Stephanie Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8399	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! On his appearance in the “ZIB 2” yesterday, the President of the National Council not only argued completely falsely in order to justify his stay as chairman of the Ibiza Investigation Committee, he also accused us as opposition of mobbing and assumed that we would work with falsehoods – an inconceivable accusation, especially when he comes out of the mouth of the National Council President. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] However, Wolfgang Sobotka also tried to discredit the investigative committee's instrument by saying he was so expensive. In all other sentences, the intention was clear: The investigation committee should be made a farce. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yes, democracy costs, control costs, that is painfully conscious to me every day in the investigation committee – but do you know when, dear ÖVP? – If we are not delivered files because there is no laptop, there is no calendar, no mobile phones which do not regularly delete communication; if information persons like the Minister of Finance do not remember anything that has happened in the last three years and would be of relevance, and we cannot help him, because we have no documents, with the ability to remember, with the jumps; if a chancellor answers anything, but not, or not much later, to the question that was actually asked, and thereby steals an important time from the investigation committee; if an ÖVP group leader breaks out of the fence without any reason paralysing Rules of Procedure without any reason, when we speak and it becomes tricky; if then the chairman who is supposed to float so uncaptured over the matter, for example, quite clearly attacks the party, if he says that the Alois-Mock Institute is not a preliminary organisation of the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP: Is it not!]] The people who pay for this committee of inquiry should be able to take a picture of it themselves, then everyone could see that a committee of inquiry is not only expensive, but valuable – very valuable. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] The ÖVP does not want this, only the ÖVP does not want it. Exciting is: It was particularly important in the negotiations on minority law to convene research committees that there is only media publicity. Why was this so important to the ÖVP? – In order to be able to play exactly this game that it is now deducting, so that it can prevent and make it worse in the investigation committee and thus prevent consequences, because public investigation committees have consequences. The behaviour of the ÖVP Group, the ÖVP President, the ÖVP member as an information body would, I think, be greatly improved by the public, I am convinced, because the acting would be too embarrassing for them if the whole country could watch for hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] [[Call at the ÖVP:... would be really important!]] Of course, it could become dangerously impressive when this is experienced. The public could be so outrageous that pressure arises and consequences are demanded. All of this doesn't want the ÖVP. It prefers to discredit the Committee of Inquiry as a whole and critical members in particular and to refrain from its mission, which is not to discredit anyone. But it is not our mission to please the ÖVP either. [[Call the ÖVP: This is a fool! The NEOS are always right!]] Our mission is to look carefully, objectively, unimpeded and unimpeded and to clarify the question of whether one could buy short I posts or even laws in the government and who operated this system. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In order to be able to carry out this task efficiently, we are calling for the public disclosure of the recordings and images of surveys in committee of inquiry, beginning with the survey of former and active members of the government. I am very excited about your arguments in the committee, Mr ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8504	Next speaker: Mr Christian Stocker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8538	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear sisters and spectators at home! In a way, Mrs Krisper, I can do something about your request. I can recover this request insofar as it makes it clear to you once more what it is about, but above all what it is not about you. You are obviously not concerned with the Committee of Inquiry, not with the subject matter of the current committee of inquiry, because I can remind you of this subject of investigation, it is called ‘probable buyability of the Turkish-blue Federal Government’. [[Abg. Fireplaces: What else?]] They have failed in this subject matter of investigation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Mr Brandstatter.]] [[Further call to the NEOS.]] Mr Brandtätter, because you have just claimed that you would have been informed. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Yes!]] I can still remember a long day in the Committee of Inquiry, and on the evening of this committee day of a committee costing EUR 100 000, you were in the media and have announced the following as a result [[Phone call at the NEOS]] They explained that Harald Neumann ate fish with Gernot Blümel. They also made it clear that the two did not want to be disturbed. [[Abg. Brandtätter: The appointment of Blümel and Neumann is very exciting! That's very exciting!]] Now I'm telling you, I'm aware that you're happy to hold your meetings at McDonald's, but talk to the vice chancellor about how this is going about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have said that you have failed in the subject of the investigation and have simply changed this subject matter for yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS and the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The new subject of investigation now suddenly means a suspected partiality of the chairman – probably; it is not proven, but probably already. [[Abg. Krainer: Not suspected!]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] I can tell you one thing: They have also failed in this subject matter of investigation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] You have depended on Novomatic payments, and you still cannot explain where the incrimination is. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] These have been legal payments – that's how you don't get over it either. I would also like to tell you why you have failed to do this subject of investigation. [[Call the SPÖ:What do you have the book for?]] – The book is actually for colleagues Brandtätter, but I am still here; I can prefer it. [[Keeping the book “National Council’s Rules of Procedure NRGO” by Werner Zägernitz up to date]] In this book, Mrs Krisper, the following is the one you are so pleased to refer to, and what you are thinking of is that the chairman should no longer be present in the committee of inquiry, because he is being invited back as an informer and should not hear what is happening there: They refer to § 37 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Call the Greens.]] I would like to tell you quite honestly that you were sitting in a pocket-player trick that came from colleagues Krainer. [[Abg. Kollross: There he sits!]] - That doesn't matter where he's sitting, that's it. In any event, in this paragraph 1, it is already in that the person in question is to be consulted in the absence of information to be heard later, but you should also read paragraph 4 of the same paragraph, namely that the survey period must not exceed 4 hours. If I were to follow your logic, you wouldn't have to charge the chairman because the four hours are over. That's how you can read it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] All of this happens when one does not end up reading a law. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Krainer, I have expected you to read only the first paragraph. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] I would have trusted Mrs Krisper as a lawyer that she would also read the fourth paragraph and pursue the final decision – perhaps the result would be different. Since Mr Brandstätter is so concerned about parliamentarianism, I can also warmly recommend the book to you for the Committee meeting. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Every day! More today!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Collaborator Brandstätter always gives his books!]] [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] If you are in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council at § 37 para. 7 you will find that the President of the National Council is legally entitled to participate in each meeting of a committee. This is an essence of parliamentarianism. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You should think about it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Finally, I should like to say: We are happy to discuss this request, and I am saying that you are not concerned with the public – that is not the matter – but you are always the person in the foreground. [[Abg. Krisper: No officials!]] Above all, the persons of the highest organs of land and federal government want to have heard in a public that is only accessible to you. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Image and sound material should be published in the Committee immediately after hearing the media and the political groups – not for the general public. That's how it stands in your application. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] They want to decide which filter takes place in the dissemination of the information. [[New call to the NEOS.]] It's not about the public! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee of Inquiry are not intended to be adapted to your methods. Adjust your behaviour to the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8826	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8867	Mr Stocker has just claimed that the Rules of Procedure would norm that a person's survey should not last more than 4 hours and therefore not be loaded a second time. It's completely read. I'm actually correcting: You can load a person once and interview for 4 hours. As a minority, one may also load a person a second time, and this survey may take another 4 hours. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to ask Klubobmann Wöginger to make a statement on his own so that the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Committee of Inquiry can be properly understood. Of course, one may load twice as a minority, and each survey may take 4 hours each. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] By the way, a majority can load infinitely often, and then you can ask infinitely often 4 hours. That's just a little reconnaissance tip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8915	Next speaker: Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e8939	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stocker, in what part of your speech have the arguments been made, why is the ÖVP opposed, at the beginning or at the end, or was that in the middle? Where were the arguments? [[Call the ÖVP: You could have listened!]] – I listened, I just didn't find her. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Now I'm going to have to read the Minutes too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand the fear. What are you afraid of? That the population is involved in what is asked or what is answered? For what? – The population is very interested in this committee! [[Abg. Schmidhofer: No!]] She'll pay you too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is financed by the population, and you don't want anything to do with it! What are you afraid of? It's supposed to be public. The interest exists and, ladies and gentlemen, we are not the first country to do such a thing: In modern democracies there is already this, for example in the USA or in Germany! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So we're not somehow the flags that try something, and yet you're afraid of it. Perhaps I can help you with an argument that you have not put forward any arguments so far, why the ÖVP is really against it. The population could then know that the President underlies the questionable Member that they are disrespectful that they are putting something under them and so on and so on. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] People would know that very immediately. Or they could learn that they have a finance minister who couldn't remember 86 times. You really have to imagine that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are your arguments. After me, Mr Stögmüller comes - - - you speak, I believe, in my opinion, but it is grudging whether you speak or not. [[Call the Greens.]] I can't understand and I don't know why the Greens are afraid of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] For 30 years your predecessors have cried out for transparency. Didn't you mean it as seriously as it was said? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] I recommend to you two people you should talk to who have really tried for transparency, one is now Vice-Chancellor and the other is the Federal President. Ask them why they have sought to do so, and themselves why you are opposed to this committee being transferred to the public! [[Calls for Greens]] I don't know! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only tell you one thing: There is no need to fear the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9058	Next, Member David Stögmüller will speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9095	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP repeatedly mentions that it is in the population: We are Also among the population, and outside, I constantly hear that the Committee of Inquiry has a lot to do with the fact that a lot is being discovered. There is a very good feedback that we are very good on the go and also produce many new insights. It is the work of the entire committee of inquiry, which has so far been discovered. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] The current investigative committee is very well aware of the importance of political information to Ibiza and to the turquoise-blue government. A committee of inquiry is an extremely important body and an instrument of parliamentary control and therefore needs to be taken seriously. We are not afraid of that, Mrs Colleague, no. [[towards Abg. Yılmaz]] It is also necessary for this body to be taken seriously by all Members of the House and also by all those invited. These must be respected by the control body. I'm often asked: How's this going on in the investigation committee? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] How does that work? What are you talking about there? Is there really so many ambiguities or redundancies in the Committee of Inquiry? – Yes, people have a serious interest in getting to know what is happening in the Investigation Committee, what and how the people respond. Why do we not create a possibility for citizens to be able to participate in the Committee of Inquiry? There are also models for this. For example, we can refer to the US Congress. There is normal, and there are exciting discussions, exciting surveys that are publicly transmitted. I look at myself more often; it is really an interesting way to experience parliamentary participation. On the other hand, we often argue that this is not possible for reasons of personal protection and for the necessary protection of privacy. This is, in part, quite understandable, but not an insoluble problem. This application is now discussing the subsequent publication of revenue from active and also former top-notch institutions of the Federal Government and the countries in images and images. This proposal is an opportunity to underline the seriousness of this committee to give this body greater public weight. Of course, in the course of a change, it must be ensured that the regulation will not be misused. We'll take a look at that again in detail. I can assure you, however, that we are certainly not afraid of it, since we need to take important steps for the future and for the further development of the Committee of Inquiry. For all of us Greens and for all of us, education must be at the centre, and it must remain that way and be driven forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9155	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 787/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[18:27:14]] 10. Point First reading: Proposal by Christian Hafenecker, MA, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 4 December 1989 was adopted. In July 1975 on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Law on Rules of Procedure 1975) and Appendix 1, Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Investigation Committees (VO-UA), was amended (896/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9199	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. We are going into the debate in a moment. Mr Hafenecker, you have the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9227	Madam President. Dear colleagues from the ÖVP! You've made an early start. The "Sandmännchen" from which we heard from our colleague before comes only at 7 p.m. and therefore I would like to refer very briefly to the proceedings in the committee of inquiry. To President Sobotka: It's a shame that he's not holding the presidency today and not sitting behind me, because I'd like him to hear what I have to say to him. I have known him for a long time, since my time in the state day in Lower Austria, and since I have known him, he has not actually generated himself as a mobbing victim. So almost the tears come to me, I looked at the "ZIB 2" and I had to get rid of the tears because President Sobotka is being treated so cruelly in the committee of inquiry. Now comes the jumping point, which is why I spoke about the Sandmännchen story. The colleague of the ÖVP pointed out earlier and said that the association, which the chairman is still chairing in the Committee of Inquiry and which has received the six-digit amounts from the Novomatic, is not essential for the Committee. I would like to remind you again that at the beginning you wanted to make a number of investigations because you didn't want to talk about it. Now I'm gonna tell you something: There were also FPÖ-near associations – so they were called – that were examined precisely because they wanted to know if there was money from Novomatic, whether there was a party funding that was somehow veiled. And this very question is of course also permitted at the Alois-Mock-Institute and at all other associations. The association of colleague Gerstl will also be discussed sometime, and we will also have to ask why Mr Gerstl spends 20 000 euros on stand-by fees at the ÖVP Vienna for an afternoon at Standl. It'll all be the subject. What I find worse is the behaviour of President Sobotka in general, as in the “ZIB 2”. You really have to break this on your tongue: Our National Council President and also my National Council President – and I have also elected him – are going in the direction of a live TV broadcast that he is actually accusing the Parliament he is in charge of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, where do we come from when a President of Parliament does not know how to act? If a President of Parliament is questioned on a TV appearance in which he is to comment on the Committee of Inquiry and also take his position on the role he has taken there, how does he get us to be flat-rate, how does he get the highest examination body of the National Council to stand in such a light? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for me, President-in-Office Sobotka is not only ready to withdraw from the Committee of Inquiry, but he has also disqualified himself as President of Parliament and should have consequences. [[Consistency with FPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Drozda.]] I welcome the fact that the President has still found the way to us. [[in the direction of the abg going to his seat. Sobotka]] I have just referred to your appearance at the ZIB 2 and I mean that it is absolutely unacceptable to lose such reports as the First National Council President towards the House. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, I am sorry to have chosen you at the time, but you have completely disqualified. I would like to respond briefly to Mrs Krisper's request. I think that this proposal is very, very important, and we will also support it, because we have seen in the Committee of Inquiry that it would be very, very important, especially with regard to politicians, that, at least later, after this Committee of Inquiry, there is the opportunity to look at the statements that have been made and to track what politicians have said there in particular. I don't know if a Gernot Blümel would have achieved a plus in the Vienna election if one had known that he had developed an extraordinary culture of oblivion. In fact, this is almost a pathological case if one cannot remember 86 times what lies in the recent past. [[Call to the ÖVP:... minus 23 percent...!]] I think it is absolutely acceptable to send statements from elected representatives to the Committee of Inquiry to show how they present themselves in such a committee. I do not take this out of the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it must not be allowed to happen to the public, but I say, to every official of whom you may wish to have additional information. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I now come to the last point, to my request, which is now under this item on the agenda for the first reading. This is the following: We talked today and yesterday, i.e. the whole two plenary sessions, about how the Corona situation develops. You know, we have a different position on this most recent crisis, but we are now leaving it out. The fact is that, if Europe is already being put on red in the traffic light system, it is only a matter of time for coming persons to be apologised in the Committee of Inquiry for this very reason. That is why we have set out in this motion or wish we would amend the Rules of Procedure insofar as it is possible to conduct video surveys. That is to say, the information people do not have to get into the committee room, which is already too small and perhaps not optimal in these times. The second thing: We also want to make it possible for those in quarantine to be informed, because they may have been associated with a suspect case, to explain to the Committee their perceptions on the subject matter of investigation. It is important that we do not seek a permanent change in the Rules of Procedure, but that we really take account of the pandemic's time and that we want to ensure that the information work can continue in the Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9284	Mr Hafenecker, for the expression ‘pathological case’ I give you a call for order. I call Mr Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9322	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Let me say a few words to Mr Hafenecker, because one has to be clearly clarified here: Our President, Wolfgang Sobotka, is an excellent President, who carries out his case correctly and conscientiously in the chair of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] - It has to be made quite clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ wishes to achieve this request that in future investigation committees, information individuals can be surveyed by video. Mr Hafenecker's reason for this is that those invited to the Ibiza Investigation Committee have remained remote because of the Corona Pandemic, so this invitation has not been followed by what I personally understand and understand. Finally, it is always about personal decision-making. It's about the health of a human being and his family. This request will be allocated to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure today and we will discuss it in more detail there. I would therefore like to take advantage of my speaking time to raise a few questions that seem to me worthy of discussion in the light of the current Rules of Procedure. Firstly, the question arises how confidentiality can be guaranteed in a video survey. At the moment, it is true that the surveys of information subjects are only media-public. This means that only media representatives are allowed to participate in the meetings. Secondly, the question arises as to how personal rights of persons can be safeguarded. At the meeting of the investigative committee, the person may contact the attorney or the judge directly for confidential advice. The third question that arises is how documents are presented to the person concerned. I think we need to discuss these very carefully, because experience has shown that some parties are not always treated with utmost care in terms of confidentiality in this committee of inquiry. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Finally, on the one hand, it is about the health of the people to be questioned, but as a very essential point it is also about the protection of the personal and confidential rights of the information person. This must be a major concern for all of us here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9383	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9407	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Mr Hafenecker, we can totally understand and understand the intention of your request, because we experience the fact that, due to the pandemic, some persons – sometimes of course also entitled – are apologizing with various attestations not to come to committee and to be available as an information person. We have only a little concern as to whether in a video survey – as a questioner in research committees you have long experience and you know the Of course – not all that belongs to it, namely, both the mimik and the gesticism, the intermediate tones, the intermediate behavior, so all that actually constitutes the immediacy of interviews. So there are some things that are naturally lost in a video survey. In addition, the question of the protection of the rights of the persons in question, word procedural attorney, attorney, court judge, judge, who are in the interests of the person in charge of the information. We think that it is very, very central, and here I address you, Mr President, that you create spaces in which all persons, respondents, but above all also information persons, trustees, journalists have a safe access to the investigation committee. We have already made a proposal a long time ago: We would like the Committee to be here in the plenary room. Here's enough space and it'd be just the option. That is why we again appeal to you that you put really safe spaces on your feet for the investigation committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me address another aspect and say a few words, Mr President and Chairman of the Committee Wolfgang Sobotka, about your media appearances. I have to tell you honestly, I have believed that I do not trust my eyes and ears, I tell you that really in this openness, it was and is inconceivable to me. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] As a Member of Parliament, as a representative of the people, I expect you, as President of the National Council, to do all you can to ensure that the strongest control instrument we have in the National Council in Parliament is well equipped and that you do everything you can to ensure that this is taken seriously. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] I don't think it helpful if you talk about the united opposition in a television interview. What does that mean? – You've got this a little bit ridiculous too. You also talked about Mobbing: Quite honestly, you know how people who are being mubbed. I would like to say this in place of stone and clear: That is not possible, Mr President, sorry! It's easy, too. Their task is to defend the Committee of Inquiry with teeth and claws as an instrument which can be used seriously, because the framework and the culture of meetings are right, namely, as is laid down in the Rules of Procedure, and because it is very clearly about information work, Mr President, about Parliament and therefore about democracy as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9477	Next speaker: Mr David Stögmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9501	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Transparency and Enlightenment – we have heard it before – are pillars of a functioning democracy without which a truly effective parliamentary control simply cannot function. It is all the more important to ensure these. Especially in the current Ibiza Examining Committee, we have shown that information work is very urgently needed. The many different examples, such as the Prikraf, the Edelstein project or the withdrawn gambling novels, are only a fraction of what we have discovered and done in the Ibiza Investigation Committee. The Committee of Inquiry has already produced a lot, which may not always be relevant to criminal law, but very politically relevant – and that is our task. Since the start of the Committee, we have been in the Covid-19 Pandemic, which of course does not make the work of the Committee of Inquiry much easier. Everyone knows that. the investigative committee shall: Covid tests, masks, plexiglass panes between our political groups – all this has already become almost part of our weekly work in the Committee of Inquiry. I would like to give the applicant – where is he, Mr Hafenecker? – that he is very right that the Covid-19 Pandemic presents enormous challenges to us Members and to the people in charge of information and, in particular, to Parliament's management. That is why I would like to extend my warm thanks to the Parliamentary Directorate's team, to the registrar. They all perform their task perfectly and ensure our protection and also the best possible protection of the information people. Thank you to everyone for all the work that is being done! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, a pandemic must not be an excuse that one does not show up as an information person and withdraws from the investigation committee. Of course, there could be a way of preventing this kind of video surveys. In this request, Mr Hafenecker proposes that the possibility be provided in the Rules of Procedure to obtain information on the Committee of Inquiry by video for health reasons. In principle, this is a very good proposal in the age of modern technology, but this also raises some technical questions to be clarified, such as how it can be checked that the statements are made unimpeded by other people present in the room. We also need to clarify as a committee of inquiry how to deal with the presentation of documents and files, not only by the Members but also by the information subjects, and how any classification of these documents can take place, so that the procedure also corresponds to the information freedom law. Technical feasibility in the Committee of Inquiry must also be assessed accordingly. Similarly, the protection of personal rights is an issue that needs to be considered and that we need to look at more specifically. There are, therefore, some open questions that we need to discuss in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or to be discussed in detail at expert level and at referent level. However, I hope that we can find a solution here and also clarify these questions in order to perhaps allow such a video survey alongside a regular survey in challenging times like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9558	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9593	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Mr Sobotka! I am pleased that you are still taking part in this discussion. [[Abg. Hörl: Do you have a trade with the bookstore?]] [[Abg. Loacker: Someone stole the mask!]] - Please? [[Abg. Hörl: Whether you have a trade with the bookstore!]] What's the problem? - Listen! Mr President, Mr Sobotka! I'm glad you're here now. Unfortunately, I had to talk about you in the absence yesterday, I would rather have done it in presence. I have referred to you as someone who is sometimes a bit overwhelming in his words and also hand movements, has used a Vienna word for this: No, no, no, no, no, I don't think that's evil, it wasn't meant to be evil either. That was the nicest thing I said. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] What I have said less positively is a serious point that I would like to talk about now, and I would really be pleased if we could enter into a dialogue and talk about how this committee is going on. One thing I would like to say very clearly to you, ladies and gentlemen, and above all to President Sobotka: We will not come to mind not going into this trap if you believe that it is possible to say every time: Chaos, Mobbing, doesn't come out, costs a lot of money!, and trying to get the media to write about it and talk about it and not the facts we reveal, namely: How did Schmid get his job against every provocation and against every law? How did Novomatic-people influence politicians with money? - It's proven. How is it possible for someone to appear and say: You don't come to his right in this country if you don't pay anything!Unknown term type: "%s".? How is it possible for an information person to come and say: There was someone with me and offered me money for me to say something else!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or: How is it possible – and I have expected criticism from you, Mr President – that Mr Bundeskanzler will make improvements in 15 places in short, if he receives the protocol, even though it was otherwise written down? He later wanted to change his statement. As President of the National Council, I would have expected you to draw attention to the fact that this is not possible. It's bad for the U committee when things like this come out. It's damaging our democracy. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] And something more, and I really ask you to listen because this is a serious story - - – moment! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka.]] Mr President, I would be pleased if you were still speaking and commenting on this. – For me, this committee is new, but you know what is not new, what I still have in the BAT study committee - - – to let it speak out! [[Abg. Sobotka: Read the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Sobotka: I'll let you talk out anyway!]] I would like to tell you this because this is perhaps exciting for many here, also for the audiences, especially for journalists. I can tell you what I have experienced as a journalist in the BAT study committee: I called colleagues today, i.e. politicians at the time, members of the EIA U Committee, and asked: Can we make an interview? The answer was: You'll get a recall. I got the recall from the club's press officer. Then I looked into the Constitution, read something about the free mandate and thought: What kind of free mandate is that? – There was an exception. I don't want to mention the name because I don't want to harm him; he's not sitting here today either. [[Cheerfulness of Members Krisper and Belakovich.]] One ÖVP member said: Okay, I'm coming – when are you? There's time, I don't have time. – That was the only thing, otherwise it was not possible! This form of message control can make Mr Fleischmann, and we are seeing how he fails, but what is not going on is this form of message control in the investigation committee. This is totally unthinkable because things are public. And it will be even better if we can show it later. On the question of video survey: Yeah, that's, if it's not different, it's also a possibility. [[Abg. Sobotka leaves his seat.]] Mr President Sobotka, please stay there, I have one more request. – It would be possible for Mrs Horten to say that she does not want to come to the committee room to be questioned in a side room. [[Abg. Sobotka: Yes, yes!]] You could organize that. These are points that are very important to me, and perhaps we are getting to stop, we stop turning off chaos, money and other things, and we focus on the results. Only today has a report come out again, and this is not pleasant for the FPÖ, which comes out partly, but you too are participating in the investigation. It just came out: If Mr. Schmid has his job then we want our things too! - We'll find out all that. We note what happened here to the indecent and, in part, to the illegal in the country. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is the purpose of the Committee of Inquiry, and this purpose is being fulfilled every time. This is unpleasant for you, but you have to take note of it now, and I hope that this committee of inquiry will also change something in the country. Seriously, Mr President: We know each other long enough, we have sometimes spoken out loud, that must be possible, and again: I think that 'Häferl' is not an insult at all, and 'arousing' is, I believe, an adjunct, which can be attributed to you, Mr President. But you are really responsible for parliamentarianism in this country, and I expect you to say: Yes, this committee is fine. I expect you to say: We can discuss something here and there, but I do not question the Committee in principle by saying: They're mobbing me! That also surprises me – and now I'm going to stop – that's obviously a new development in international populism, that everyone has to be a victim like this: Trump is a victim, Erdoğan is a victim, all are victims. You do not have to be a victim at all, Mr President – a strong man from Lower Austria, that is what connects us! [[general hustle and bustle]] And if you're a strong man from Lower Austria, you don't have to say: I'm being mubbed! – My God, this can happen once that someone else thinks otherwise, but that is not Mobbing, Mr President! Let us now turn to this not so late hour that we are glad that we have a parliament here. I know, sometimes people come and say, He's always talking about this being at risk! – I have already shown you so many books, and I can show you one that describes in detail Parliamentaryism, that democracy is at risk in advanced countries of prosperity. Unfortunately, it is. Our task and that of the elderly is only right to hand over to the next generation a country in which everything is possible. I talked to my neighbor Duxi Hoyos about 1989 today. I have experienced what was going on in the GDR, I know how people were treated in communism, and as reporter I have also been allowed to visit other dictatorships to experience what it is like. What we have here is great, unique in the history of Austria. We know what it used to be, and we don't want to do that anymore. That's why you have to go here and say: Yes, I may have said something that was not so good; yes, I am with this committee; and yes, I would like us to talk about the Committee's contents and not about any formalities to evaluate it! I notice to your hand movements that we are in agreement. So I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen: Mr President Sobotka will now very much ensure that this will be a great committee, he will be pleased when we come to common results, even though these results may also be unpleasant for the EIA. [[general hustle and bustle]] [[In the case of NEOS, members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Stögmüller]] [[Abg. Steinacker: So, please, he can speak himself!]] I also believe that, yes, but – and the NEOS may soon be ruling, I urgently wish them, in Vienna, just as elsewhere – of course, the seduction, when you rule, is another one. That may be already, but then you have to put up with the responsibility, the education and the control. I urge that we do this together. I am going to try to contribute mine to this, I have seen President Sobotka contribute to it. – I thank you very much and wish everyone a nice evening. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9777	The next item is the speech by Mr Christian Hafenecker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9809	It's right, I just wanted to go away and answer the questions raised by the EIA so that we can really go into the committee constructively. Col. Brandstatters, your word in God's ear, I just hope that this does not fail in the Lower Austrian nature of some people. On the three questions raised: How is the safety of information providers guaranteed? – You can solve this relatively easily. There are such possibilities in court. For example, especially in the case of sexual criminal offences, there is the possibility to also say about video. That means you can make sure that the people are not affected in their statement. It may also be possible for Parliament's management staff to ensure this in an additional room, so to speak, to be sent to Parliament without contact or contact, to a room specially set up for this purpose, in which all these things can be dealt with safely with with with by a procedural judge and so on and so on. I think where a will, there's a way! Maybe just briefly to colleague Kucharovich, because she said that gesticism and mimik were also important: Absolutely, but it is almost impossible with the masks now to recognize any mimik; with President Sobotka I don't know whether he laughs under his mask or if he's just hurting. It's important, but anyway, it's preferable for me to do a video survey instead of getting no information at all. I believe that this is important, and I believe that we can also ensure that people's personal rights are safeguarded, that especially the video streams do not go outside; this too is technically feasible. I would say that we can create a much safer environment in these video experiences than is the case until now, for example, in the selection of letters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sobotka: (the mouth-nose protection mask drops short) This is not a question – an information! We're not a court, finally make this clear!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: You should be careful!]] . Right: if we ask the information, Mr President! Now I know at least how your mimik looks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9876	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 896/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:54:42]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9909	We still have to vote on a deadline request. Vote on the request of MEPs Weidinger and Fischer, the Consumer Protection Committee for reporting on the government paper on ‘a federal law amending the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act, the Telecommunications Act 2003 and the Competition Act’, 409 of the Supplements to set a deadline until 16.11.2020. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:55:24]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-15-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00058_d7e9943	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 966/A to 983/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 6.55 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
