ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e1555	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I can ask you to take your seats and explain the 22nd. Meeting of the National Council for Opened. I can welcome all Members in the hall – whether in the sitting rows or on the gallery – quite cordially. I welcome the Federal Government, at its head Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor. I particularly welcome the Austrians in front of the televisions. For the explanation: Today we meet with a reduced number of Members, 96 in the number. You see: We keep greater distances in the seating rows and in the gallery. It is a great challenge for us to comply with the health authorities' provisions as best as possible here. I can inform you that Members of this House are now also infected with the corona virus, and may ask those ladies and gentlemen who have had closer contact with her to report. She herself stated that she had not had any Category I encounters. We wish her and also honourable Members all the best from this point of view! [[General condolences.]] On the basis of the adoption of the Federal Minister for Health and Social Affairs concerning the wearing of masks, I have recommended that such masks be worn when you are in motion and that the necessary distance cannot be observed. You see, we also have a plexiglass wall as a protection so that speakers can speak unhindered. I would ask you to position yourself in the case of word messages for business treatment or fishing in such a way that you can stand behind the mobile plexiglass wall. It shall also be without prejudice to disinfecting hands and complying with the relevant regulations. I should like to thank all the parties and the representatives of all the political groups very much for being able to hold this meeting in this form. It requires great mutual trust in order to carry out this shoulder closure – just what the process is about to happen – here together. I should like to thank Parliament's director, Mr Dossi, and his team, who, in this short period of time, put in place measures to ensure that the session is unchallenged, because it is necessary for the Austrian Parliament to be able to meet at any time in the crisis in order to legislate on those measures proposed by the Government or as a result of proposals for initiative, and to decide on them and thus ensure the basis for the rule of law and for the action of the authorities at all times and everywhere. And I am particularly grateful to all Austrians who have behaved so decisively in the last few weeks as to what is going on in their discipline. Keep going and let's go this way together! The vote on the subject-matter of the negotiations is taking place again today in this relaxed sitting order, which is blocked at the end of the sitting. With regard to the apologised Members, a list will be distributed in the meeting room. This list will be attached to the Official Protocol. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich, Lukas Brandweiser, Mag. Romana Deckenbacher, Franz Leonhard Eßl, Hermann Gahr, Maria Großbauer, Kira Grünberg, Ing. Josef Hechenberger, Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, Hans Stefan Hintner, Franz Hörl, Mag. Johanna Jachs, Mag. Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli, BA, Rebecca Kirchbaumer, Andreas Kühberger, Karl Mahrer, BA, Irene Neumann-Hartberger, Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Carina Reiter, Mag. Corinna Scharzenberger, Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler, Karl Schmidhofer, Joachim Schnabel, Gabriela Schwarz, Norbert Sieber, Johann Singer, Christoph Stark, Dr. Christian Stocker, Ing. May. (FH) Alexandra Tanda, MMag. Dr. Agnes Totter, Bed, Ing. Johann Weber, Mag. Peter Weidinger, Bettina Zopf, Mag. Ruth Becher, Mag. Thomas Drozda, Cornelia Ecker, Mag. Karin Greiner, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Julia Elisabeth Herr, Klaus Köchl, Robert Laimer, Mag. Verena Nussbaum, Mag. Dr. Petra Oberrauner, Sabine Schatz, Alois Schroll, Michael Seemayer, Rudolf Silvan, Petra Fürderwinkler, Petra Wimmer, Rainer Wimmer, Mag. Selma Yildirim, Nurten Yılmaz, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, Rosa Ecker, MBA, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Alois Kainz, Christian Lausch, Edith Mühlberghuber, Mag. Christian Ragger, Christian Ries, Peter Schmiedlechner, Mag. Philipp Schrangl, Mag. Harald Stefan, Petra Steger, Peter Worm, Mag. Faika El-Nagashi, Mag. Ulrike Fischer, Heike Grebien, Ing. Martin Litschauer, Barbara Neßler, Bedrana Ribo, MA, Dr. Astrid Rössler, Clemens Stammler, Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogluwer, Süleyman Zorba, Michael Bernhard, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, Mag. Felix Eypeltauer, Fiona Fiona Fiedler, BEd, Dr. Stephanie Krisper, Mag. Gerald Loacker, Dr. Johannes Margreiter. A communication: Yesterday a wedding ring was found at the disinfection site. He's not wearing a monogram. If he leaves, I would ask him to report to the Bureau. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[12:07:16]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e1891	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a notice that Dr. Josef Moser has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Dr. Werner Saxinger. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I'm allowed to ask the writer to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e1927	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e1956	I thank you very much and welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] The usual handshaking or other discoveries of joy remain out today, which can be recovered at a later time. [[12:08:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e1988	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can still announce that this meeting will be broadcast live in full length by ORF 2 and ORF III as usual until 1 p.m. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2046	In order to be able to negotiate items 2 to 4 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 2 to 4 are reports by the Committee on Budgets on Amendments Nos 402/A, 403/A and 404/A, respectively, by Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer and others, on points 3, 4 and 5. COVID-19 Act in 115, 116 and 117 of the Supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2074	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 to 4 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Mr Leichfried: on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2110	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In times of crisis, the opposition, social democracy has been very responsible and very comprehensive in dealing with this situation. We have carried two legislative packages, some of which we have already had concerns and which we were not convinced of. But in the interests of the whole and in order to allow for rapid action, we have put our actions to the service of the case. But we have been commenting for a long time, and that is why I am speaking today, ladies and gentlemen, that this cannot continue. We noted at the last presidential conference that it must finally be so that there are individual legislative drafts that can also be voted separately on – that has not happened. We have tried and tried to bring ourselves constructively with our ideas, with our ideas, with things that we consider important and which do not come out of nowhere. I was called yesterday by someone who has become unemployed and does not deal with unemployment benefit, and in contact with these people our ideas arise. We have seen yesterday that the government groups have tabled 92 applications and have been piling through the Budget Committee. We have also experienced that we have made four requests, and these four have been postponed with the argument that no one has time to look at it and that this is too much now. Dear ladies and gentlemen, that's not an shoulder closure you're doing here! That's not working at the same level anymore! [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] We now have four more requests to make. Not only did these 92 applications come too late yesterday and then have been completed again, but today – by three quarters of twelve, I think, it was – new applications have already come again. You can't work like this, ladies and gentlemen. We now have four more applications, and I say to you: We will measure you by how you deal with these four requests. These are not complicated in content: It is about helping people who do not have money now, whether they are entrepreneurs or employees, whether they are unemployed or simply need money. This is our intention to support us! It is about opening the Federal Gardens – support us! It is also about helping the communities – support us! In dealing with these requests, we will measure you and decide how we will behave at the end of the vote. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2153	Mr Klubobmann Kickl spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2177	I can only fully support the thrust of Mr Leichtfried. To do this, you need to know how this goes in the background. At the beginning of this crisis, when some members of the government parties believed they did not need Parliament at all, in order to reduce parliamentary processes to the minimum necessary in order to help quickly and efficiently. We have made possible within 24 hours things that take weeks in normal parliamentary operation. I think it was a matter of course that we took this step. In the meantime, the time that we won has already taken you back to the construction of an incredibly complicated bureaucracy and dependence structure, I tell you that too. For what you've done, we shouldn't have hurryed! [[He was in favour of FPÖ, SPÖ and NEOS.]] But now we are at a point where we are no longer going from today to tomorrow, but -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2206	I would ask you to speak about business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2222	I come to these things: In the last presidential term, we have talked about the fact that we no longer want to have draft legislation in the form of collective packages, because this time you have had more than a week. Collective laws mean that in the end you can only say yes or no to the whole package. That is the opposite of a differentiated parliamentary opinion, and on the other hand, we must take a stand against it, I say that clearly! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] In addition, we have kept all our announcements and agreements from our side: That we distance ourselves from deadlines, that we do not set any special actions, all of which we hold. You do not comply with your deadlines if you submit draft laws to us: From hour to hour, this will be moved backwards, and the last packages will reach us at a very short distance to the meetings. This is not a serious parliamentaryism, ladies and gentlemen. This is not a close to the shoulder, but it is the Bulldozer method by which you are trying to put Parliament before finished facts, and it must be resisted.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2258	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2282	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is an extraordinary time, and yes, it is not normal parliamentaryism, in which we are now holding a meeting for the third time, but our Republic has to cope with the biggest crisis since World War II. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But you have to do it together!]] I do not want to thank all the political groups here in the House for the common approach we have been able to take in the presidency. But I would like to say one thing, because now the talk is that it will be postponed from hour to hour: It will be day and night – I really want to emphasize this: Day and night – on the applications, on which law worked. We have received 92 requests which have been made within a few days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] [[Abg. Kickl:... stuffed!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Ours!]] We want to establish a legal system that is designed in such a way that the laws can also be implemented, so day and night work is done on it. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: We too!]] However, I also ask for understanding that it is simply and simply not possible otherwise in this situation. We are looking at your requests! We are looking at these four requests, only yesterday have we received these four requests immediately at the beginning of the sitting. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] I would also like to say this: We received it at the beginning of the Budget Committee meeting. I know that we too have tabled amendments in the last few hours or in the last minutes. I know, but I'm saying, We work according to best knowledge and conscience. I am not putting anything on your mind, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, either. However, I would like to stress once again that we are really trying day and night, together with countless employees in the cabins and clubs, to ensure a somewhat functioning process, I would like to say this in half to the completeness. One thing I'm saying is that nothing works in this country. If only the Chamber of Commerce has completed 110 000 applications within a few days, paid EUR 90 million, - [[Abg. Kickl: That's what we're discussing!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2379	For business treatment please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2397	- and the AMS – I also say that, because the others have said more – has increased from 20 to 500 employees, then, I think, it should also be made clear that we really are in an extraordinary situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I understand that it is said that the amendments are too late, but I ask you to take into account the overall situation in which we are located.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2434	Mr Scherak spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2458	First of all, I would like to say clearly that we naturally understand the particular situation that exists, and there are, of course, measures in these draft laws which we also support accordingly. We, as opposition parties, have, in many areas, waived deadlines, and we have said that we will, of course, take part in this national etiquette as far as the Formalia is concerned. It's just that all those things we've asked for don't happen. We have said several times in discussions in the Presidential and also in other bodies that we want individual legislative packages, and we have been assured that such a thing will come. Now there are three legislative packages, which are essentially about deadlines, the second is the increase in the budget framework, and the third is, in fact, all the measures in substance. In fact, it is not possible to take differentiated action to support the right measures and to reject and look at those that are dangerous and difficult. In addition, there is another aspect that is particularly serious, namely how spontaneous changes are being made. I remember yesterday a situation in front of a hearing that was promised and held. Just before that came a change, and I was told: They're just little things. These are not little things with God! This is about massive interference in the fundamental right to data protection and the fundamental right to privacy, and I am telling you that honest: That is why Parliamentary events cannot work. It is no longer possible in a short time to fully assess these things. We will have to consider seriously whether this shoulder closure, which has been offered by our side and is also lived, is permanent as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2500	For business treatment: Clubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2525	Ladies and gentlemen! I can understand the excitement quite well. I know exactly what it is like to be in the opposition, but I also know what we have done in the last few days, in the last two weeks – including what you are doing – and I can guarantee you that nothing of this happens in any way out of malice. We had a conversation on Monday between Chancellors, Vice Chancellors and all club members and all the heads of the party. It announced that the laws would come in this form, and there was no protest there. I take note that this is a problem now. It is now true – and it has been discussed there, there was no protest, not even in the presidential. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's not true!]] On the postponements of applications: Yesterday, because of the amendments, we postponed a meeting by one hour. Yesterday's requests to the Committee came directly before the plenary session. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] That's all totally okay. I have also explicitly mentioned yesterday the points that we want to take into account from the requests made by the SPÖ for which we want to find solutions. I have explicitly stated this in the position of the request for a postponement. I would like to ask you once again: At the end of the shoulder it is not a question of who gets any requests, it is not about who has received information as where. We really do our best, our employees give their best and the legitimists give their very best. We work 24 hours to give you the information to make decisions here, but we do not need the shoulder closure for Parliament in the sense of: Who gets what when?, but we need it for the people out there, for dealing with this crisis! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Accordingly, I would like to make a very strong appeal to you with all my understanding – I understand, I can understand – that we should please consider what the aim of this plenary session is to deal with this crisis. Let us now start with the debate on the content.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2594	In the speeches I did not object to summing up Agenda items 2 to 4. I shall therefore proceed in this way. I would draw attention to the fact that we will, of course, vote separately. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2614	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the following Rules of Procedure were agreed: First item on the agenda: Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and Vice Chancellor: 10 minutes each; two rounds of speakers according to club strength: 10 minutes per club. Agenda items 2 to 4: The members of the Federal Government receive a total of 30 minutes and the clubs per 30 minutes of speaking time. It is expected that four members of the Federal Government will speak. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall limit the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the design and duration of the debates. I can ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of seeking a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. - Thank you. We are now going into the agenda. [[12:24:24]] 1. Point Statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Current developments on the Corona virus SARS-COV-2/COVID-19”
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2666	We are now going to Agenda item 1. Following the declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the request submitted and duly supported. I can give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2697	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But especially dear Austrians! Over the last 24 hours, more than 1,000 people have lost their lives in France because of the corona virus. In the United States, over 250,000 people have now been infected, and in our neighboring country, in Italy, more than 14,000 people have died in recent weeks due to the corona virus. The worst thing about all these figures is that in many countries this is only the beginning. Austria has so far been better hit by this crisis than other countries. The reason for this is you, ladies and gentlemen of Austria. We have reacted faster and more restrictively than others. You have saved life through your behavior, and I would like to say a very, very thank you today. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] The positive news is – and I admit, I am glad and relieved about it –: The measures we have taken are correct. The measures we have taken are effective and the spread of the disease is slowing down in our country. As much as I am relieved that the measures we have put in place will have an effect, but we must all be clear: We're not over the mountain yet. It is now important to keep up with it, it is important not to draw swift conclusions, and it is important to continue to do everything we can to save ourselves in Austria a situation as it has now occurred in many European and world countries. I would like to express my express thanks to all the parties in Austria today, even if there are some disagreements. Across the party borders, we have responded correctly in Austria. I would like to thank the government team very much. All members of the government and their employees work in a very difficult situation almost around the clock and with great tension – also a great thank you for that. I would particularly like to thank all those who work in our health system and in the care sector. I would like to thank all the police, the members of the Austrian Federal Army and also the civil servants for being there in this exceptional situation for public security, but also for security of supply. I would like to thank all those who contribute to the work of providing in Austria: from agriculture producing food, over all those responsible for logistics and supply chains, until, of course, those who sell and work in the supermarkets are directly on the front. I would like to thank all the people who are working in our country despite the difficult conditions and who are keeping the economy running where it is possible, and I would also like to say thanks to all those who can stay at home and do so and thus reduce the risk of infection in total. Dear Austrians, I am fully aware that the situation is a difficult one. I understand that people who are alone are almost isolated from the outside world, are isolated, feel an incredible loneliness, and I understand that on the other hand, for families who are together but may have to live together in a narrow space, it is foolishly difficult to put everything under one hat: the family, the replacement of what cannot happen in school, and then in many cases the work or sometimes the work by teleworking. All these situations are extremely challenging. All these measures cost strength and engender all our energy. The situation is difficult, but all this is necessary. I'm worried a little bit when I look at the next week: The Easter Week is one that many people value as a time when you travel on vacation, visit the family, celebrate in the circle of the family or even beyond. I ask you to: Activities You're different this time! Let us leave all that we appreciate to Easter this year to protect us and our loved ones! Do we not miss family celebrations and meetings, as they are the greatest danger to the people who are at our heart! I am fully aware that all these restrictions are difficult, but these restrictions are necessary in order to regain the freedom we are accustomed to. All these limitations are necessary so that we can soon lead back to the life we love so much, and all these restrictions are necessary so that we can live life with the people we love so much, and not lose people's lives that should not be lost. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise you that, as the Federal Government, we will do all we can to ensure that we get through this crisis well. And I also promise you that we will do all we can to get out of this crisis quickly. That's why I'm asking you all: Let us observe the numbers together in the next few days! Let us not draw premature conclusions due to some positive signals; it does not just need a trend, it needs sustainable positive development. We as the Federal Government will evaluate the figures on Sunday and then together with experts try to make the right decisions. Clearly, we want to get out of this crisis as soon as possible, but certainly not so fast and at the price that happens to us then, what is happening in other countries, namely sickness, suffering and death. We want to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible, but only as quickly as it is responsible and feasible. And that's why I can already announce that on Monday we will inform you in full about our decisions we make on Sunday. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I can promise you that if the figures give it, we will do everything we can to return to normality gradually. We will start with trade in these steps, but I ask you to understand that, even if the development is a good one, this return will take place gradually and carefully in order to protect the health of people in our country as well. [[Abg. Belakovich: I thought on Monday...!]] This return to normality will be accompanied by accompanying measures: first with the protection of the risk groups and the particularly vulnerable people, the elderly people, second by a cultural change – holding back and wearing masks; I know that is not pleasant, I know, that is strange, but it is necessary to protect others, and I think it is good that politics is progressing here with good example, because politicians are not above the rules that apply to the population – and third by containment – containment in the sense of tracking, as broad and as fast as possible testing and isolation as possible to all those who have been potentially infected. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: Although the... are not protected, but you are protected!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Look at that...!]] I asked the Minister of Health and the federal states to do everything to prepare this professional containment so that it works as soon as we get up the plant again, so that, if there is Glutnester, these Glutnesters can be quickly isolated and removed and not immediately follow a surface fire at all times. Ladies and gentlemen, the Corona crisis, this virus brings disease, suffering and death in Austria and in other countries around the world, and in addition it brings a global economic crisis, as we have not all experienced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Healthy companies face the collapse, and people who have nothing to blame lose their jobs. As the Federal Government, we have therefore immediately decided to take over 38 billion euros to provide aid to businesses and people in order to elevate this situation and ensure that we get through this crisis. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Our access is clear: Cost what it wants! We will do everything we need to protect jobs and guide Austria's economic location well through this crisis. We will fight for every single job and do everything to make the Austrian economy as strong as it was before the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish that I can look back with you in one year and that we can see together: We have defeated the disease, we have saved life together, and we have managed to make a comeback to Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this, I have a great request to you, which is the prerequisite for this, please continue so that all this is possible. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: How much time is there yet? ... 10 minutes!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: It's been 11 minutes!]] I guarantee you that Austria will survive this crisis, Austria will come through this crisis better than other countries, Austria will come out of this crisis more quickly than other countries, but only if we stand together and if we do one thing, namely in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2826	Mr Vice-Chancellor, to whom I am speaking, has been mentioned. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2848	Mr President. Honourable Members! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Of course, I would like to start by thanking all those living in Austria who help in a wide variety of ways, that it is even better and better for us in Austria to achieve the objectives – to limit the spread of this disease – than it works elsewhere: that is, for all those who support and follow the measures and recommendations – and we know that these are quite, very many – and for those who – vice versa than others who are to stay at home – need to be sent extra to work because they work in very important sectors. I am not going to list everyone again now, but be sure that we will take all of this into account and deserve a worthy thanks. Above all, I would like to thank all those who, I have already suggested, are affected in so far as they are at home because they are in short work or, even worse, they have become unemployed. That's all we know. Nevertheless – I would like to continue with something positive – I am convinced that we will come out together if we stick to some things. Keep from being able to do so: Keep, stay away – and all of this together is the new cohesion. I would like to thank you very much for this, and I would like to refer again to the President-in-Office's speech yesterday, which dealt with this very cohesion. – Yes, we will come out together! Nevertheless, this is the biggest crisis – not only an economic crisis, but also a crisis concerning social life, about unemployment, about much that has been familiar to us so far and can no longer take place – since the Second World War, which was triggered by this – if you want – meteorite impact. It is very, very difficult to measure and control all of this accurately. Together – and I would like to thank the opposition parties once again – we here in Austria have put up a lot and, I think, we are better there for two reasons: First of all, some curves tend a little behind, but what's even more important is the famous curves that have already been addressed. the, actually begin flattening along the objectives. This has something to do with the measures that have been taken. I can also turn it around: If we properly interpret the forecasts and model calculations we had weeks ago and now also have for the future, then it can be seen that if we had not put these measures in the appropriate periods, we would have already reached the collapses of our health system and, in particular, intensive medicine in the first days of April. There is no interpretation; that is clear! The difficulty with this message is that not everything is much more easy to take now and is over. After all, if we had nothing to do with you again, it would go away from the beginning. That tells you the logic. And in this case – you can look at these model calculations – there could also be up to and even more than 100,000 dead in Austria. We will therefore closely monitor how these figures develop. These are the numbers that are the hard indicators: Hospitalization numbers, that is, how many have to go to the hospital and how many intensive medical care needs to be experienced. These are the decisive changes. Yes, it will also be better, but we see that the numbers would explode if we immediately returned to the usual everyday life. So it will only go step by step, and we will re-evaluate this from week to week, as in the meantime, and then propose the appropriate measures. In these contexts, it will also be important to plan now – and I am talking about the future and the various packages made in the social, economic and employment sectors – and to look forward so that Austria in the regions, in all economic sectors, can get out of this crisis as well as offer the prospect for all people that it can become a semi-normal life. In any case, I think this is possible: Austria is economically strong, and the machines will continue to exist, people will retain their qualifications, so it will be about ensuring the appropriate bridge now. This is done with several measures, with the short work package – you already know – for the very small companies, the single-person companies and many people affected more with the hardness fund, and for the larger businesses or for all those for whom it is suitable – we have now completed this in these days – via the Coronahilfe Fund. What's this about? – It is about companies having liquidity in order to overcome financial bottlenecks, through guaranteed loans, but there are also grants for expenses that are deemed to be lost. These are certain fixed costs which, on the other hand, do not represent any corresponding revenue. This is happening to an extent of EUR 15 billion. However, we have also built in a certain degree of reliability – with such amounts I believe that this is understandable – and that is why there will be no dividend distributions for the respective companies in the year in which this can be requested and calculated. There will also be restrictions on the managers' bonuses. That is why I am saying this because there was a public debate about it, and probably here in the house, as I think. This is intended and will be poured into appropriate directives during these hours. But again: All of this is done with the aim of ensuring that Austria does not want to lose the capacity and qualifications that we have in Austria, as long as possible, without prejudice to the crisis. In this context, we have many contacts with business representatives, with the trade union, with regional politicians, mayors and national leaders, and everyone is pursuing the same goal. I have the feeling or the confirmed impression that there is actually being pulled and worked together. That is how we can do it if we work together in this direction. Even if everything isn't fixed in detail next week – that's logical, that's why we'd tell a Holler! – next week, we can imagine that we – where it can fit – can gradually take appropriate easing from a certain point of view. It won't work anywhere. Some will also be able to take place from a certain logic only later; Big events, for example. I congratulate everyone who can already say exactly what is reasonable from an epidemiological point of view and when again many, many Zig thousands of people can come together in one place and, if so, under what conditions. This responsibility is still with us. It remains a balance between these reliefs of life – including those who now have to be at home, what they can do for them – and those measures that otherwise shape social and, above all, economic life. Furthermore, in Austria we have done this consideration: Although we have, at least along the hard indicators, apparently much lower levels of infection, we have left relatively many sectors open, as measured in other countries, because we make this consideration every day. And that's what it's supposed to do. This also concerns the many, many associations, the non-profit organisations, which also do a lot in our society. That is why I am saying this because this Federal Government is also important for honor and voluntaryness. We will link the next packages in the next few days. This goes from the sports clubs to the cultural associations, to many socially committed organizations or even companies that have dedicated themselves to it, because of course they also have infractions of various kinds. Certain revenue does not come, but there is no benefit to certain costs. If possible, these pitfalls will apply to several sectors and to several areas of life after the economic start and we are already turning to the target. Finally: We'll get out when we stick together! And that means: Keep your distance and hold on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2936	I should like to thank the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor for the explanations. Before we go into the debate, I can tell you that, as I have just been informed, Pulse 24 and other private channels are also being transferred. We also thank all journalists, especially the camera crews, for the constant and very consistent reporting. Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e2965	Mr President. My Honourable Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! We are in the middle of the greatest crisis after the Second World War and we thank God for positive news as regards the number of infections in the corona virus. I would like to thank all Austrians for most of the measures taken by the government and also by us here in Parliament. If that were not the case, we would have a different development in the figures in this area. I can only really appeal to everyone that we're still holding on now to really limit the spread of this virus to the greatest possible extent. It is about the health of our citizens! I just mention one example that is negative, which is the excursion tourism that takes place in some areas. – Please, get away from it! You can move, you should move, but no mountain tours or major excursions need to be made now. Please, keep up the measures! It is a difficult time, which also awaits us about Easter holidays, that is no question at all! We know this, especially in the country: big family celebrations, all come together. - Please, don't do this this! Stay in your closest family circle, as you live together in the apartments and houses, and don't hold these big family celebrations because simply the risk of infection would be too great! With regard to the Federal Government and Parliament – I would like to stress this –: As Austrians, we can happily appreciate that we have this federal government with Sebastian Kurzan, who has done the right thing from the first day. You have to emphasize that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The right measures have been put in place from the beginning, I would like to thank you for that. I would also like to thank all the political groups here in the House for the third time that it will be possible for us to adopt important legislative packages here to help those people who are directly affected by the crisis. We work with all the strength day and night in the sense of the Austrian population. Let me also say quite clearly: It would simply be too early to open up everything now, it would be too early and irresponsible to the Austrian population. The figures must indicate that we can gradually open up again. We don't see that yet. I also call on the FPÖ to end this zigzag course. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Who's doing a zigzag course? Who?- Oh, my God!]] ==References== March spoke of a lockdown – so turn everything around, nothing goes in this country. Partyobmann Hofer now says he wants to open the shops and schools again, colleague Belakovich said that two days ago in the evening at the Round Table. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What is now the FPÖ's line in this matter? We feel this is wrong, it's too early to open, it's too early to open. [[Abg. Kickl:... waste time!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... sleep for weeks!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] We do not want a situation like that of our neighbor Italy, as it has France, as they have the USA, ladies and gentlemen. [[Onions of the Abg. Belakovich]] That would be irresponsible. We don't want that. We are concerned with the health of the Austrian population, which is at the top. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Today, in Parliament, we are again dealing with three very comprehensive legislative packages with which we support: for workers, for entrepreneurs, for those who are particularly affected by this crisis. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: which you have dropped into the crisis with your actions!]] I would like to say one thing: It is great what is done by many institutions. They help every day. I would particularly like to mention the Chamber of Commerce because it was criticised here. What employees have done there in the last few days deserves our respect and our full recognition [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] More than 100 000 applications have been received and more than 90 percent have been processed. – A great deal of thanks also to these employees! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Thanks also to the AMS, ladies and gentlemen! 500 employees are on their way there in the course of an almost inhuman use to complete the short-term job applications. Our respect, our appreciation and our recognition are also due to these institutions. We have a total of 38 billion euros, which must now of course be used. It's about short work – the slogan is: Short work before termination – to cover the hardness fund, credit support, social security, taxes and rents, it is about the emergency aid package and the replacement of sales losses to the greatest possible extent. We do what we can. These measures are being worked on day and night. Finally, I would like to say thanks to all those who maintain this emergency operation, because it is not natural in times like this. I say it again: This is the biggest crisis in Austria since World War II, but not only for us, but for very, very many countries around the world. [[Abg. Belakovich: You have plunged Austria into the biggest crisis!]] I would like to say thank you for providing us daily. This goes from the farmers to the drivers who drive the trucks, the posters, the neighborhood aid, to food on wheels. This applies to the whole area of health, whether it is the hospitals, whether it is the entire care area. I would also like to mention in particular my former Red Cross colleagues who are in operation for more hours every day than are provided for under labour law. I would like to thank all the officials and authorities who are responsible for security in our country because we are in a very exceptional situation. A great thank you to all the people who take these measures! We still have to keep going, ladies and gentlemen. We'll pack it together. Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3112	Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3178	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! I believe that in the meantime no human being, no expert, no expert, doubt that this new corona virus has caused one of the biggest health crises in our continent, the biggest health crisis since the Spanish flu about 100 years ago. At the same time, we see and feel in Austria, in Europe and worldwide that the consequences of this health crisis could also lead to a social disaster. Yes, the unemployment rate has been the highest in Austria since 1946. We therefore need to focus all our strength, all our efforts of political and social nature, not only towards this virus, but clearly also to turn this social and economic disaster away as quickly as possible and as well as possible. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] The question, therefore, which has been asking itself for weeks now and in fact, is: What does it need to do? What does it need to do now at the latest? What might it have needed in the last few weeks in the health and social and economic sense? As far as health is concerned, we can say that in the successful fight against this virus we have carried and will carry all the measures so far, but there are two points that it is currently about. [[Abg. Lightenness: (in the direction of the talking delegates on the gallery) Is there a rest up there!]] In the field of health and, above all, health care, it finally needs central health and resource planning, it needs central control. It needs a reliable overview where in Austria the resources, protective suits, tests, masks and breathing equipment are available, because only with this central overview, with this responsible overview, can it succeed, intelligently and specifically with the resources we hear from you daily, to ensure that the health staff do not have to work unprotected so that people in their work are not unprotected so that every patient and every patient in Austria can have a breathing device available when they are required to breathe. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre]] I don't want a situation like in Italian hospitals or in France, where some doctors have the choice – and that's not a choice a doctor wants – or whether a patient gets a breathing device or not. We must exert all our power against it. And it needs an intelligent, offensive test strategy. Two days ago I received a report from a family doctor in Lower Austria: She had a 54-year-old patient who developed an increasingly typical corona symptomatic for seven days. Despite its classic symptoms – fever, cough and shortness of breath: classical symptoms! – and although he called at 1450, he simply did not receive a test. He was told that if he had problems, he should go to the house doctor. Three times in a row he called 144 for increasing shortness of breath during the emergency call, but was referred to the family doctor – nobody was still there, and nobody had tested him. His daughter has it with him. Wet and distress brought with a car to the ordination of the house doctor, where as a patient with suspicion he was not supposed to go to Corona. He collapsed there, had to be supplied with oxygen, waited for the emergency doctor for 30 minutes, and in the hospital it turned out that this patient is coronapositive. To that end, I say: This must not happen in a country like Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] Why did this happen? - He's not an individual case. It happened because we have a test strategy that says: You will only get the test if you can prove that you were in a risk area – Italy, Iran, China is called risk areas – or if you had contact with a coronary patient. – Did he have these contacts? - No! He didn't have it, but all of Austria is listed as a risk area with the World Health Organization. How reprehensible is this technical basis that we still find on the website of the Ministry of Health in the form of a suspicion definition for the whole of Austria? Yes, we must focus on the use of our resources, but in the fight against the social crisis, we also need a pooling of all our forces. There is a high level of unemployment, a high level of anxiety, a high level of fear and concern for people in Austria. When I was two weeks ago – two weeks ago: Testing, testing, testing! I say now, ladies and gentlemen: Help, help, help! This national etiquette, which we bear so much in front of us within politics, needs to be with all the Austrians affected, with all the people in our country who are so afflicted and damaged by this crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are people who do not know how to repay their loans tomorrow, how to pay their rent, their operating costs and fixed costs, small entrepreneurs who do not know how to proceed: We must not leave anyone behind: no patients, no unemployed, no single parents, and certainly not the students who have an uncertain future in the coming weeks and months. Yes, we increase unemployment benefit for all unemployed people – 560 000 people in Austria – we do not leave them behind! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this situation, let us make effective bridging aid for all workers! Let's set up the hardness fund as it is necessary! These are necessary measures, these are requests that we made yesterday in the Committee on Budgets, and which unfortunately you, dear government groups, rejected – did not reject, postponed. These people don't have time to wait for the money they need for their daily life and just don't have anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let us also consider the question of how things continue. Yes, people are afraid: for their freedom, for their health, for their workplace and for much more. Let us take this uncertainty and give them confidence by giving them a perspective! How does the way look back to normality? There's no day and no date, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that's right. No expert can create this, but we can create objective, transparent criteria on the basis of which decisions will be made in the future when it comes to easing existing restrictions and measures. It takes a compass for the way back to normality. Our country needs confidence in the way back, and that is what we are going to do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3257	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3283	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Austrians! I have to ask the members of the government if they do not also receive the same calls, the same emails and the same mail that we have received in the last few days in the last few days from the insecure, frightened, desperate Austrians: from people who are also afraid that you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, as you have just done – even if you do it with a silent voice – this fear caused by horror scenarios such as the nagging of hundreds of thousands of dead. You really have to blame you for doing what you're doing. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Vogl.]] I don't know if You can register this at all, or you can't see it in your tunnel anymore, because the government is doing something about this crisis, please, a matter of course, and we're all moving along. But they also leave much to be taken into account. Plus 200 000 unemployed – the number has been mentioned – go to your cap, among other things: because you have reacted too late in many areas and do not give people the safety that they need in the form of a job guarantee. Each one of them is a fate. People don't know how it goes, whether it goes on at all. Have you thought about what that means for each individual? Entrepreneurs – small, medium and large, who are not privileged because they do not hang in your network – are self-employed in front of the ruins of their economic existence and many are also in front of the ruins of their private existence. You make these people the victims of your newly built black and green bureaucracy. Instead of giving people a full right to compensation – just as we want it to be, as provided for in the Epidemic Act – you are degrading these people to beggars and alms recipients. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] For this, you will build a black and green gesmbH that will handle all of this: 24 billion euros without any parliamentary control, without any legal claim. That means in good German: arbitrary. The economy of friends will be the principle that prevails there, and that is simply unfair. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak.]] Families, my dear ladies and gentlemen, mothers, fathers, single parents, break it between the concern about how things continue, and the tasks they all now have to take over, from childcare to teacher play – after-help teachers and what's going on there – and especially in the Vienna constituency, the ceiling falls on their heads because many live in small apartments. The answer from you and your Minister of the Interior is that they also have the gardens, the large green spaces locked in front of the nose, and then these people are declared life-hazardous. I can tell you one thing: A life-threatening person – this is your Minister of the Interior, who sleeps to close or stop the boundaries and operations in a timely manner, so that protection measures can also be built outside. These are the real life-hazards. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Madness!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I am now also pretty slowly desperate, and I am sad because today we are making the third attempt to launch action – I am speaking for all the opposition parties – that can alleviate this suffering and that can help solve these problems, and again it is simply erased from the table, as if it were all nothing. The shoulder closure, which is always spoken of, is a give and a take, and not just a take, Federal Chancellor, you should remember that once! Something else makes me sad, it really scares me, I also say, that's the media landscape in Austria, which is evenly connected over many parts. [[Call to the ÖVP:I fear your speech!]] I have deep respect for those who still dare to practice criticism in these times and not be unconditionally involved in this course of brainwashing – I say this in this clarity. What if those who have always opposed the message control are now the first to hang around this yoke? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What is going on when media over a wide, wide range of parts become critical government speakers? - I can't understand that! Now they would be called upon as a critical authority, instead of showing these abuses, the critics will be ignored and maladministrations will be resolved. They're being turned out medially! For this, there are some numbers of horrors in the hour, which are not as meaningful as you always say. There are terrifying images at the current band, which you have produced yourself. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this link is the reason for the Corona Party, which the government parties are currently allowed to experience and celebrate in the surveys, and nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: We need a strategy change. We urgently need a change of strategy on health and on economic and job matters. These two things belong together. We must, of course, intensify the protection of the vulnerable groups – much more so – but also the protection of those who care for them: the doctors, the hospital staff, the nursing staff, the auxiliary staff – all of them. That is exactly where you know, Mr Bundeskanzler, that the appropriate protective equipment is not available until today. You know the help calls from the medical profession and from the hospitals. Do not act as if there was the healing world! At the time when you promised us that you were prepared for all the scenarios – we now know – you refused the European Union's offer to organise protective equipment and breathing equipment in common ways, because you have everything in hand – and now you do not know where to get the stuff. One word to the masks: You can become a mask-Paul from the mask-saulus. No problem, you can learn about it! – Then do it quite, then some do it neatly, not only in certain supermarkets, but everywhere in public space! Why this salami tactic again? And tell people how they use the masks properly and correctly, otherwise this measure is counterproductive, and you know it very well. Ladies and gentlemen! If the masks are everywhere, it is also useful to re-establish and open the economy. No one understands that you can shop in the supermarket, but in shops where the frequency is much lower, the same thing is forbidden. Another strategy change needs to be carried out, a strategy change related to freedom. Stop speaking about and preparing the monitoring and persuasion measures in the background, dear representatives of the Federal Government! That's what's threatening. It was treacherous what you, Federal Chancellor, said today. It's not like the question is: Freedom or health?, but in a democracy it can only be called: Freedom and Health, Federal Chancellor – Freedom and Health! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] Nothing is alternative, even your ways are not! And do not speak to those who act out of good conscience, their minds and their good will. That's unscrupulous. These are not cross-drivings and querulants, but these are people who have the courage to use their own mind and use it. I can tell you, it's going to be more every day.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3400	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3422	Mr President. Dear members of the Federal Government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the devices, hopefully at home! Not even two weeks ago, we decided on the first Covid-19 package here in the House with all the political groups in a meeting marathon, which I thought was impossible until then. I am also impressed by how this Parliament works in this exceptional situation, in this crisis, in the biggest crisis we have seen in this country in the Second Republic. I would like to express my express thanks to everyone for this. Even if there are problems here and there, Parliament's functioning, parliamentary cooperation and decision-making are easily possible. We have proved that we can work very professionally. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It's only been 12 days since then, it feels like two months – I don't know if you're doing the same. [[Abg. Krainer:... three weeks, not two!]] Above all, there may be many people at home who are at home alone who are at home with the children who work in Home Office and also have to carry out home schooling. We know that's impossible to combine. Homeoffice doesn't mean you're loosely relaxed on the couch and working a little bit next to it. Home Office is subject to the same requirements as the work in the office. In addition to having to make sure that the children do house exercises, that they really learn, that's an extremely big challenge. I don't have children myself. I can't imagine that, really. My great respect is for all those in this country who now have to vote and vote on this inconceivable task all the time, especially the single parents who are still alone with this task; they are particularly affected. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to say again at this point: It's totally okay to say: I can't do it anymore! It's totally okay to say: So, I need to take a break now, and give the kids to school. The schools are open. There is no teaching there, but they are open and the children can be cared for there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] It is completely legitimate to do that too. There are also helplines. Call the help lines! You can be found on the website of the Social Ministry. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This situation is certainly challenging for children and young people too. There are a lot of children living in families who have no terrace, no balcony, no garden that lives in very narrow space that their friends cannot see. For young people who, perhaps because of their age, do not understand themselves as well as their parents, with whom there are many differences of opinion, and who now necessarily have to spend more time with their parents, this can be a very difficult situation. There's advice on wire for that. The staff of Council on Wire, this very proven hotline, are ready. You can get help from them by phone or on the Internet. The time must also be very slow for those people who now have to care for relatives who, because they are at home anyway, have taken over this work, because the mobile caregivers elsewhere are needed more urgently, and who now, in order to protect their relatives, their parents, can no longer go out. This too is an extremely stressful situation, and I also say: There are appropriate hotlines. Get in there! We also know that – such as Christmas – in times when people spend a lot of time at home, the number of cases of violence in the family increases, violence against women. There is also a help line, the women's help you can turn to before something happens or when something happens. You're not alone, let yourself be helped! The restrictions on our freedom, which we have decided together in the last two weeks, are enormous. We have decided and we are implementing them to protect us to protect our health in order to protect our health system in order to protect the lives of our fellow human beings. I would like to point out once again – and, Mr Kickl, I really cannot understand your relativity – why we are doing this: We do this so that our doctors will not have to decide in the next few weeks who will be allowed to live and who will have to die. That is why we are putting all these drastic measures in place, and we will have to keep going. We'll have to bite our teeth together again. It's coming Easter now. Yeah, we'd all like to celebrate with the family. – It doesn't play now! We will have to get together and continue to work on reducing the number of infections even further and that in the medium term we will be able to live a more normal life again, even if it will not be as normal for a long time as it was before the start of this crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But in this extremely difficult situation there is also much that gives strength, namely cohesion, which is noticeable. I find quite fascinating how well the wearing of masks is accepted by the population, how many people sew themselves masks. It is extremely important to stress here again that the oral nose protection does not lift the other measures. We must keep going, we must continue to comply with the rules we have formulated in recent weeks. Today, with the decision of this large package of legislation, which is really huge, we will take further measures to ensure that the consequences of these protective measures can be well eliminated. There are, for example, 30 million euros for families at risk of poverty; we will pour them out to those who hit it particularly hard. We make sure, for example, that rent payments can be suspended, that we can be paid later and that no one is thrown out of his or her home. These are all very important measures, and will follow. We have taken enough money in order to dampen the consequences of the economic consequences in order to secure jobs and ensure that, when it goes uphill, we will be able to survive this extremely difficult phase, the sooner we can have a good, thriving economy and start the reconstruction. Let's stay together, let's stay away, let's stay healthy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3491	Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3513	I have watched how this has been done by Mrs Colleague; she will be able to do so, which is why I am doing so. [[The speaker disinfects the speaker's desk.]] Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers, wherever you are! We are now at the end of the week three – because I heard two last week – more or less at the end of the week three of the Shutdown. Tomorrow the Easter holidays begin, and I very much hope that this is a time for many families, when at least you can put this home schooling aside a little bit and use the time for each other and for each other a little different, because I feel like I know what that means. There was a lot of discussion today about the need for a change of strategy. - No, we don't think it's necessary now. I think it's too early to talk about it, because we can't be sure what effects the increasing spread of the virus has on our health system. But what I demand from the Federal Government is a change of priorities or a shift of priorities. I have heard a lot in many speeches in the last few days and weeks that health is going on and that we are doing everything we can to correct the consequences afterwards. I think it's time to say: We must pursue and balance three objectives: stabilising the health system while ensuring that the economy and society do not collapse. The two latter are actually on top of the chicken. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I hear again and again that there are these target conflicts. – It may be. I am convinced, however, that good policy, which is balanced, which balances, manages to apply a comprehensive view, a view that not only looks at the increases in case numbers of new infections based on testing, how many people are additionally cared for in intensive medical care and – unfortunately – how many deaths there are, but generally consider: How many unemployed are there? How much despair is there in the families? How many insolvencys are at the doorstep? How many employees do not know how they will get through the rounds next month? How many small businesses and how many large systems-related companies in Austria are going to get into the situation in the next few days – hopefully not days, but weeks, but then certainly, of course? It is with good policy that we combine these three objectives and look at them as a whole. I come to the first goal: to stabilise the health system. Yeah, there's a lot of right things going on. I would like to take up a few things which I would like to expressly mention today; they have already been mentioned. If wearing masks helps us to take up our lives soon, that's a good measure. At the same time, however, not to ensure that established doctors in Austria and also care staff are adequately equipped with the corresponding higher classified protective masks across the board, that is negligent, ladies and gentlemen! That must be the top priority. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Kaniak.]] Testing, testing, testing! We've been talking about this for weeks. Finally, there will be these representative tests. I think this is a key to getting to the data base so that we can start our lives relatively quickly. Let's track the virus and not the citizens! That's our credo. To stabilise the economy: I would like to say that sometimes I am greatly surprised by the naïveness or small speeches of some of my colleagues. We may be at the threshold of a global recession, whose effects we cannot imagine in the least. We are not talking about dealing with this with a bit of emergency fund and a bit of emergency fund over the next few weeks, but we are talking about the fact that at European level, for example in the context of the financial framework, this will at least take five years. This will have dimensions that we cannot imagine, so it is so important not to lose sight of the economy. Please stop playing this against each other! These moral culls, namely to say: We cannot prioritize the economy because otherwise there are dead people!, is unfair. It is unreasonable to play these things against each other! This has to be considered in a balance overall, and there we are at the end of the week three. This is the third session this week. At the end of the week three there are enough farms that have still not seen any money you have said there will be guarantees, there will be liability, there will be hours, the great corona short work that sometimes – forgive! – such a little robotically is brought over. But the companies didn't see any money. You can't afford to do the short work if it's only recovered in one or three months. They can't afford to look at guarantees and charges because they don't have the money. Very many small, but also medium-sized and large enterprises face the situation that it is about days and not about weeks. We have said several times what it needs to be done to support the economy. And what happened? – They have actually built up a bureaucracy sample, whereby, as has already been mentioned several times, entrepreneurs have been degraded to bitters, and they are buying that the unemployment, which has already been at the highest level since 1946 – and we know that it is actually higher because not all are yet included – is getting even faster. Economic aid is needed to prevent misery and unemployment. It is not only a question of being able to reach out to entrepreneurs, so that they can get through the rounds, but it is a question of saving businesses so that businesses and jobs can continue to exist and we can actually get up again. This is an essential difference, and If you are talking about an alms policy such as in connection with this hardening fund, I sometimes feel that you have not yet understood it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We have also long said that in addition to these guarantees and liabilities, of course, loss compensation also needs to be compensated, i.e. non-refundable grants. I have heard that, according to these directives, this should now be inside the emergency fund – there is a lot that can now be decided by the government without Parliament's involvement. But I say: Keep away!, that's a good topic. I do not understand it at all, and I think it is absolutely objectionable that you are using this situation to exploit these urgently necessary measures now party-political and power-politically, and here make constructions that ultimately use your party, especially the ÖVP, with the help of the Greens. You're driving people into the dependence of your own party-political apparatus you've designed. – I can only say one thing: Shame! Keep away from it, too! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The third point is: stabilise society – open and free society. What society do we want to live in? What is she supposed to do in six, eight months or ten months? I come to the topic of education: We already know, and these are alarming figures, that 20 percent of children are not reached by the teachers about Homelearning because there are no devices or because parents don't care. – These are dramatic numbers. Where is your proposal, Mr. Fässmann? They are responsible for providing the appropriate support. Our proposals are on the table, from special budgets to support coachings to step-by-step openings et cetera; we are ready to talk. We can't leave a child in such a situation, that's our credo. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is about this physical removal not becoming a social or psychological removal. Social Distancing is repeatedly translated a little wrong as a social removal. That is not exactly what it is supposed to be, and that is also the top priority for us NEOS. Now I come to the free and open society, because it is so important to us. Especially in times of crisis, it is very tempting to remove fundamental and freedom rights and data protection and give up privacy. Fundamental and freedom rights are not a beautiful weather programme, but the highest goods. Especially in times of crisis They are not thrown – almost with a free letter – overboard. What you're hiding in this package of toxic pills today is really all about. It's about sensitive health data, it's about passing on this sensitive health data, and we also know what's going on: from big data to mandatory tracking over the phones; I don't have to tell you that. I think it's a bit funny when the FPÖ, after having seen in the last government that this is not being taken so seriously with the surveillance, is poking on it now, but I should be right. Freedom and health, that's completely right. But I asked myself the question: What would be the case if the FPÖ were still in the government and these measures had been proposed today? - There would be a Bahöl, there would be people on the street! The Greens are in the government, and now there is a greenwashing of this monitoring measure. ==References== We will not allow that, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We see that democracy can be at risk, in our neighbouring country of Hungary, where Parliament has become more or less disillusioned over the night, so that it can only be ruled by decree in this crisis. I find it embarrassing that official Austria has found no words there. By the way, I have also been able to write, which is the first emergency -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3658	May I ask you to conclude, the speaking time is about.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3673	... Viktor Orbán. I can tell you: This has something to do with corruption rather than with the fight against crisis. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3784	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3808	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear fellow citizens! And above all: Dear Cathi! – You may now ask yourself: Why does she greet dear Cathi? – Cathi is my not quite 30-year-old daughter, she works as a doctor at the front in a covid centre hospital in the intensive medical department, truly no easy task for such a young person. What such young doctors now have to do, they could never have imagined two months ago. Thank you to all doctors and all the medical staff who risk their health for all of us and do everything possible to save human lives! Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] We can help our part to facilitate the work of the doctors by participating and thus preventing the spread of this virus as much as possible and thus, hopefully, do not become ill itself. – Thank you! I thank all Austrians! We must take measures And hold on to it. We have to wear protective masks. We cannot meet the loved ones personally, and it is necessary to stay at home, and this, of course, also in the coming Easter season, where we are used to celebrating all our big and small family celebrations. Thank you! Thank you for holding on to it! And yes, unfortunately, we cannot offer you an all-round care package, but we can help you to address certain economic and financial concerns and needs and get out of this health crisis as soon as possible. It is important to protect both areas, health and economics. That's why we're putting more than 90 laws in place today. I know it's always a consideration of the limitations – how do you deal with fundamental rights that contradict each other, or how do you deal with interventions in existing contracts? – but we have decided carefully and carefully on the measures we will take today. If you can't pay the rent in the next three months, you can't be terminated by the landlord and you won't lose your apartment; if you can't pay your credit in the next three months, then you won't be picked up by your house; if you've already paid the school trip for your children, who can't take place now, then these expenses aren't lost, but you'll get them back. We also have important points for our entrepreneurs. We increase the budget for short-time work to EUR 1 billion, so that more entrepreneurs and employees benefit from short-term work. We double the funds of the hardness fund to 2 billion euros, so that even self-employed and small entrepreneurs can pay their current bills. And we are adapting company law, that is, you have more time for the annual accounts, for holding the Annual General Meetings. Supervisory Board meetings can be reviewed later or will be held by video conference. These are all important measures. Yes, the time is marked by uncertainty, and we all don't know every day what exactly tomorrow will be going on and what new challenges will come to us. But thank you for wearing it. We can take you a little bit from your concerns. We need to take care of our health and the economy. This is not either or it is, but these are interrelated measures that should lead us to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible and as much as anyone else – I say – as quickly as possible. Finally, my request: Keep up with us! Stay healthy, and if you're sick, you'll be healthy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3865	President. — The debate is closed. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Prince: This has been over for a long time!]] – Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3903	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The United Nations Secretary-General Guterres formulated two days ago: What we are currently experiencing with the Corona crisis - - - - Okay. [[Call NEOS and FPÖ:Two members of government! Two government members! That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Wöger: I can't do that! This is in the second debate!]] You've got to clear that up. [[Abg. Wöginger: Go do it already, but it has been agreed: Chancellors and vice chancellors!]] – No problem, I can report later. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3960	A misunderstanding. Mr Klubobmann (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Klubobmann for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e3984	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think in times like this, there are three themes that people are working day and night. That's their health, that's their economic situation, and that's the fear of their personal freedom. We will still have a detailed opportunity to discuss health and economic situation today. But I'm just asking you: What about giving people the unemployment benefit they now need in this particular situation? What about increasing unemployment benefit now and extending the period of reference? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This has not been able to explain to me either here or anyone, neither the Federal Chancellor nor the Vice-Chancellor, in his speeches. Explain this to us, then you might win us for an shoulder closure – or not, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Belakovich:... already gone!]] However, in the short speaking time I have left, I would like to address an area which is somewhat too short here if you allow me to make this wording: The fear of people for their personal freedom is not unfounded. There are currently measures that have never been in Austria before, and people are also afraid. There is a guarantee that these measures are not overwhelming and that they are justified, that is parliamentary democracy in our country. I am quite sure that each and every one of you, ladies and gentlemen, sees this in a similar way, but I am no longer sure of the members of the Federal Government. How can it be explained that the Federal Chancellor is speaking to us here and says: Tomorrow at the press conference I will say how it goes on, not here!Unknown term type: "%s".? How is it to explain that the vice chancellor speaks and does not lose a word about the fact that the stores may lock up again, and now we read in the APA suddenly that he has given an interview?- Oh, my God! – This is not parliamentary democracy, as I expect it from the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Schellhorn.]] This brings me to another topic: What is this loud silence on Hungary? What is meant by this silence on Hungary, ladies and gentlemen? 14 States have already declared that this elimination of Parliament is not acceptable. The European People's Party has explained that even the EIA MEPs have said so, and here in Austria neither the Federal Chancellor nor the Vice-Chancellor is able to even lose a word on Hungary. That's a real scandal, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4029	The speaking time has already exceeded. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4044	And in order to help the Federal Government and, as I said, to support them, we are proposing: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I cannot imagine anyone voting against this request. - Thank you. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] [[13:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4199	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4228	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Dear High House! ==References== The Federal Government, based on expert opinions, has drawn us a very dark picture of the upcoming corona infection wave. In a joint decision, we have taken decisive measures which were certainly not easy to understand for the Austrians, but which were absolutely necessary from our point of view at that time. In the meantime, the situation has changed slowly. Firstly, we now know clearly more about the course of infection, including in Austria, and about the disease itself, and secondly, we have shown that the measures have achieved their effect. It could also be formulated in other words: The medicine proposed by the government and the therapy we have carried out has been effective. Unfortunately, God has also shown much faster than originally thought that this is associated with massive side effects. I mean not only the economic crisis that has triggered these measures but also the threat to our social security and social peace. What should we do in this situation? – We should act like any reasonable doctor who, in such a situation, checks the prescribed therapy and asks whether and how long this therapy can and should continue in the previous form. What do we need for this assessment? – We need data, and that is why I am very glad that the Federal Government has finally passed over to collect really wide-ranging data, to carry out wide-ranging screenings and testings, and has also agreed to share this data with the opposition and other experts at an early stage, as today’s morning, as the data are the basis for the evaluation of existing therapy. But it's another important thing: Not only the data is important, but if the experts deal with these data, please also hear and consider the expert opinions and the voices of the opposition. This was not the case yesterday in the context of the expert hearing and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. If fundamental errors happen, for example, yesterday with the proposal in the third place. COVID-19 package, that the Medical Products Act for the quickly placed mouth and nose protection devices on the market will be suspended and a two-class society created, consisting of one, like you, the Member here, who has high-quality oral and nose protection, which is certified and safe, and on the other hand, the simple population that is not to receive certified, untested, unsafe protective masks in the food market, I do not understand. This is part of the legislative package, because otherwise we simply cannot agree with the whole. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, I would like to make an appeal to the government parties and, above all, to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is responsible for coordinating the government measures: Listen more to the voice of the experts, even to the voices of those who may not be close to the government! Take the opposition proposals seriously! Work This is the first time you've ever seen Hit! Don't press us to carry things in a collective law that we can't carry, which is why we might have to refuse approval, but allow us, the opposition, by dividing the laws into individual laws, that we support the sensible things and leave the controversial things outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4285	Mr Reimon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4307	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear citizens, residents of the country, especially Hungarian residents and guests in this country! We have to deal with the situation in Hungary clearly – it has been said several times. Mr Leichtfried mentioned earlier: There was a statement two days ago that 13 European governments had spoken out. The Austrian was not there. I am also a bit responsible for this because, when this statement was presented – Hungary is not even mentioned there; this is a washer-washing statement that one has to pay a little attention to rights – said: There needs to be ned when Hungary is in it! That's what it looks like. I almost found this wrong, I almost thought: Well, maybe we should have carried this along until today something special happened: Hungary, the government of Orbán, has joined this declaration. The explanation is such a Messiah that even Orbán can explain for himself, one must protect democracy. It can't be. We need something sharper, we need something more concrete. We must mention Hungary by name, and for this reason we will make such a request and will actually mention it by name. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I expressly welcome the proposals made by the NEOS and the SPÖ, which criticise perfectly the right things in this debate. We've tried to sum this up and put something in it. I am missing one thing, and I think it is very important: As the Austrian National Council, as an Austrian Parliament, we should declare solidarity with those parliamentarians in Hungary, support them and express our support to them, who oppose this self-return by a majority of Parliament and who are trying to restore Parliament's old rights in the future. They deserved that we as Parliament declare that we are on their side – and we will do so in our request. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll invite you to go there and support this. I think this is urgently necessary. In this sense, I would like to make the motion for a resolution, which is a request from Mr Lopatka and myself. If you still allow me one – that's important – 30 seconds: The Austrian Federal Government maintains the dialogue with the Hungarian government, and this is important. I know there is always this principle discussion: How long should you talk to Erdoğan? How long do you want to talk to the Saudis? – We need to talk to a European government. Minister of Europe Edtstadler is there every day. The pressure can only be caused by speeches. In that respect, it is perfectly right. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Scherak: Not after the crisis, now!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Now, not after the crisis!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Why “after”?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] That's the request. Orbán will probably feel the most about the money. I ask you to support this. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[13:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4484	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I ask to clean – also the glass pane. Thank you. In accordance with the voting procedure agreed at the President-in-Office's Conference, we shall vote at the end of the sitting. [[13:48:42]] 2. Point Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the COVID-19 Act) (115 d.a.) 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the application 403/A of Deputies August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, BA, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law on Accompanying Measures on COVID-19 in the Administrative Procedure, in the Procedure of Administrative Courts and in the Procedure of the Administrative Court and Constitutional Courts, the Administrative Court Law 1985, the Constitutional Court Law 1953, the Federal Law of Law, the Federal Constitutional Law (B-VG), the Constitutional Law (B-VG), the Party Law 2012, the Kommunestria Act, the Press Promotion Act 2004, the Law on Public Service Promotion 1984, the ORF Law, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Federal Law on Accompanying Measures to COVID-19 in Justice (2. COVID-19 Justice Act – 2. COVID-19-JuBG), a Federal Constitutional Act on Accompanying Measures on COVID-19 in Public Procurement (COVID-19 Accompanying Act) and a Federal Act on Accompanying Measures to COVID-19 in the field of Commercial Legal Protection (4. COVID-19 Act) (116 d.a.) 4. Point Report by the Budget Committee on the motion for a resolution 404/A by August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, BA, colleagues on a federal law amending the 2020 legislative budget and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022 (5. COVID-19 Act) (117 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4559	We come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Philip Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4594	Mr Wöginger would have preferred to have the Minister of State. But you allow me to start maybe – or, please, let us do it in such a way that the Federal Minister starts! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4612	The Federal Ministers are not yet registered. So first, if it's right, we take the two Federal Ministers. - Okay? [[Abg. Kucher goes back to his seat.]] Then I would ask the Federal Minister for Health to start his speech. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4648	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will come to a good sequence and we will do well. I wanted to address the overall situation briefly at the item on the agenda, because I think it is important that what we are voting on is also a little bit in the overall context. What are we currently standing, what is the overall situation? – Since the decision-making of Package 1 and 2 many things have come into motion, and the dynamics is unfortunately not pleasing. The Secretary-General of the United Nations said earlier that this was the most serious crisis worldwide since World War II. This is from the dimension, I think, a very, very clear word, and the figures are also very clear and clear: We are now with over a million people worldwide, we now have over 50,000 deaths worldwide. So the facts give him absolutely right. Europe is currently at the epicenter of this development, although developments in the USA are dramatic, as are in Iran, for example, in India, but also in Africa. I am very, very concerned about how further development will be in all those countries that do not have as stable a health system as we do. In Europe, Italy, France and Spain in particular are those countries which are experiencing a very, very dramatic development. I always read to myself in the early days the blogs of the doctors, the doctors and doctors from these countries who are communicating on Twitter. For example, if you read these descriptions yesterday by a doctor from Alsace who works there in a hospital, then you will be led to see what it would mean if we could get such conditions and we could not avoid them. It's dramatic when people have to decide when doctors: Who else has access to an intensification station? Who's being cared for? Who is being cared for? But who is rejected? Who needs to stay at home and no longer receive medical care? To avoid such a situation is what we must engage and fight for. This is the centre of our actions and actions: that we avoid such conditions in our hospitals, that we ensure that there is sufficient care capacity for every person who is ill in that country. That is what we are fighting for, and to that end these regulations, which are currently under discussion, are to make a significant contribution. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, in this most difficult crisis situation, for many decades now is simply not the time for party policy, for party policy debate, but now is the time for cohesion, for co-operation, for joint-on-solution work. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The good news in this situation in Austria is: Yes, the measures are beginning to work. Yes, we see in this tunnel a first light, a positive signal. The figures have changed. We were at around 40 per cent day three weeks ago. increase in cases of disease affecting new diseases – 40 percent! Imagine where we would have landed within a very short time if we could not have changed this: We would be in the situation in which Italy, France and Spain are located! These measures have enabled us to significantly reduce the number of cases of new diseases. We've been in the single-digit field for several days this week, we're even at 4 percent today. This shows that the measures are effective, the way is a better one. And my appeal to all of you, to all of you, to the people who live in this country, is to go on this path consistently together so that we can achieve what we want: that our capacities in the hospitals are not overburdened, that not thousands of people in this country die as in our neighbouring countries, that we can contribute and do what we can, what is in our ability, so that we can survive this crisis half-way together. Today, by the way, we are crossing the limit of about 100,000 tests in Austria – I am also going to the positive. 100 000 tests, so we are also comparable with German federal states. We have developed the figures clearly, clearly, clearly, and we will be able to start the antibody tests in Austria in one to two weeks. The quantities are ordered and we can start rolling out. I am very glad that, thanks for the various proposals made in this context, we will also be given a scientific random analysis for the first time to the Minister who initiated and implemented this, as an essential scientific basis for making a better, more precise assessment and assessment of the facts. And I am very, very glad that we can significantly improve the situation that actually prevails among nurses and in some hospitals, namely that there is too little protective clothing in these days. We will deliver 1.9 million OP masks to the federal states this weekend alone. This weekend, we will supply large quantities of protective gloves, disinfectants, so all that is urgently needed in the medical and in the care sector. This is an important step. We have big orders outside, and these are going in gradually. I have to thank all those who participate, all those who make their contribution, and especially the employees in the hospitals in Austria, who have prepared for this difficult situation and do it most humanely. We are currently standing at intensive intensive stations and in the breathing equipment at an emptying level of almost 50 percent. That is, the hospitals have prepared themselves perfectly, created reserves for this situation, for this acute situation. We are well placed here, and the forecast tells us that will be so in the next few days, at least in the next week. We will each receive a forecast for a week so that we can adjust to acute situations if the situation is rising and prepare even better. What is particularly important to me in my area of responsibility for these legislative proposals and draft laws? – On the one hand, an extension of the maintenance of measures that are simply necessary is being carried out, which were very short dimensioned. That is good and necessary; I thank you for that. However, I would also like to stress that we have been able to implement an accident insurance scheme for the Home Office. This is generally necessary, but it now needs an acute solution, so that the many who follow our reputation and From home work, actually also have the protection they deserve, namely insurance protection, accident protection. That's good. After the crisis, we need a general rule, because this is a modern system and requires that we can work equally from home. The amendments to the General Pension Act, which are part of this package, are also very important, so that the limits of service do not apply to those we need very urgently, for example to the doctors who are already retired, but who will need us further in the hospital area if it gets worse in the acute situation. I would like to draw up another point which is particularly important to me as a Minister for Social Affairs. We know we're all very interested in getting children out of poverty traps. This is a central issue for the Federal Government and, as I know, for all the parties in this House. We know that those who are poor living in a weak income situation, in difficult circumstances, are particularly affected by this crisis, and that is why I am glad that the application also includes a change in the family tax compensation law to help children in this difficult situation. 30 million euros will be spent on this. Today, we will also discuss issues of better protection for risk groups. I look forward to this, because that is also necessary and necessary. I can also tell you – and I come to the conclusion – that we are currently implementing a comprehensive improvement in the protection of our nursing homes, our old homes, because many of the weakest people live there too, who may be most affected by this health threat. I would like to thank you very much for setting cohesion on party policy today.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4749	The Federal Minister for Finance Gernot Blümel is hereby reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4770	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! In the meantime, it is clear to all of us that we are in an unprecedented situation. No one of the big organizations can talk about it, everyone knows that we are in a situation that we have not experienced since the Second World War – from the UN to the German Chancellor, in fact, all use the same wording. The main objective of the federal government of each country must therefore be to protect the health of people. Above all, we also focus on the fact that the virus spreads less rapidly in order not to overwhelm the health system. We from the Federal Government are also trying, together with you, to take all the necessary steps to keep as many jobs as possible in this crisis and to accompany the economic location as well as it can through this crisis. For this we have stretched the 38-billion-euro shield over Austria – and it already works. A few figures from this: The possibility of tax recovery has so far been applied for almost 90,000 times, in particular 89,330 times, and 97 percent of these have been done positively. This is more than EUR 2.5 billion in liquidity, which remains in companies, which is now important in the crisis. For guarantees and liabilities, which we have said we want to make up to EUR 9 billion available for this, almost EUR 700 million has currently been released by the Ministry of Finance. The emergency aid, the 4-billion-euro fund, is already in progress: the purchase of medical products, the corona-short work, the funds of which we have increased to around 1 billion euros, and also the hardness fund for small entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises, for which we have increased the fund to 2 billion euros. By the way, in this first tranche, in the first phase of the hardness fund, 111 000 applications have been submitted, of which 92 percent have been processed, i.e. almost 100 million euros have been transferred. ==References====External links== In April, one will have the opportunity to apply for up to EUR 2 000 per month, in order to continue to cover the costs of daily needs. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have also presented the modalities of the 15-billion euro fund. It is about the fact that we will, as much as possible, relieve companies that are heavily affected by the crisis by massive loss of turnover. How do we do that? – Depending on the need, the companies concerned can apply for a loan, of which the State assumes 90 percent of the liability, and depending on the need, part of this loan no longer needs to be repaid. Up to 75 percent of the operating costs will be taken over there, and up to 75 percent of the costs of the product that has lost massively in value will be replaced by the state. This is based on two products that are placed on: On the one hand, this is the guarantee of the Republic, which is used to secure operating funds, of which the Republic covers 90 percent of the amount of the loan. The ceiling is up to three months' turnover or 120 million euros, with the exception of opportunities per Supervisory Board decision if it needs to increase. The actual liquidity needs to be covered and the maturity is five years with the possibility of a five-year extension. The conditions and conditions for the operation in Austria must be that the liquidity requirement must also exist in Austria and that those companies which take advantage of it may pay only very limited bonuses to the board of directors, and dividend payments shall also be prohibited from 16.3., provided that the Annual General Meeting thereafter takes place. This structure will be operational within a week. We start from 8. April. The point of departure for companies is the house bank. We also want to use this familiar way to go to the house bank, which is to act as a distribution channel. The second product is the grant I mentioned. This is intended to be used by companies which lose at least 40 percent of their sales in this crisis: In the case of sales losses of 40 to 60 percent, 25 percent of fixed costs and the costs of damaged goods – as I have described above – are to be replaced, with 60 to 80 percent loss of sales up to 50 percent and 80 to 100 percent loss up to 75 percent. What are these fixed costs that we have defined? – These are rents, electricity and gas, telephone, Internet, interest, unless covered by the moratorium, contractual payment obligations which are not public or necessary to operate, i.e. leasing contracts, insurance premiums, licensing costs, a fictitiously accepted entrepreneur. Pays also on the basis of the criteria of the hardness fund and the perishable and seasonal goods, namely goods that lose over 50 percent of their value. Done – and this is very important! – this grant will only be made at the end of the marketing year, i.e. after the marketing year, because the audit can only be carried out through the balance sheet and through the tax advisor and the auditor. It would be an inconceivable red tape if companies were required to do so regularly, and it would also result in very high tax advisor costs. In other words, it will be charged after the next marketing year, so that it can be properly controlled as well. In this package, which is available to you today, we also have further measures, such as the tax-free production of disinfectants, in order to combat the bottleneck as well; the exemption of charges from official acts so that some of the official acts that have now become necessary due to the corona crisis do not have to be paid in addition; and extension of time in different areas. The possibility of reducing taxes on retired doctors has already been addressed. We have now also, I must also expressly tell you, that the reform of financial management has been postponed. You know, the financial offices have undergone a major reform, which de facto leads to a financial office for Austria as a whole; that is, it is no longer the case that you have a certain financial office, where you go, and the application can only be processed there, but the application can be processed throughout Austria, no matter where you bring it in, because all financial auditors have access to it. This is, of course, a major change for the entire structure, and in order to make a change process, it also needs appropriate resources. We do not have these in sufficient form now during the crisis – I have already mentioned the number of requests, which is a great additional burden – and therefore we are delaying the entry into force of this reform of financial management at the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4856	That is what we are going to enter into the debate. Mr Philip Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e4883	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I'm here for the second time now. Thank you, dear members of the government, for the remarks! I may also be able to emphasize for myself what Mr Anschober said to me personally: in such a crisis and situation in which we are all now, it must not be a matter of party policy and, I believe, it is central for everyone that we also resolve this corona crisis together and together. I personally am not concerned with any party-political hacking – this is completely for nothing, a pity for the time – but with the fact that we can solve this corona crisis together. No matter if Herbert Kickljetzt submits a proposal or Beate Meinl-Reisinger, whether it's Sebastian Kurzmacht or whether Sigi Maurer brings in one: If there are good ideas for people, we will all go with each other. That is, I think, the central idea that we should all accept as brackets. But what has approached me is the introduction to this debate today. The following can't be, although it might be a little bit down there now: Yesterday, 92 applications were submitted by the government overnight – 92 applications! All opposition parties, all of us are sort of the same: We also don't have mega much staff, it's really hard, we sleep little and are really working around the clock. So 92 applications will be submitted, but on the four applications – I can only talk about the SPÖ – which we made extra yesterday, we say: We don't have time for that! . So we need to read and discuss all 92 requests, but there is no time for our four applications! I am not concerned with the SPÖ – not at all! – but it is about the people who have written to us who have hoped that we will bring something forward. And so you can't deal with these people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can give you some very specific examples of the question: How do we deal with risk groups, with people who are chronically ill themselves, and their relatives? An example is a woman who works as a cleaning force whose husband is very hearty. Such people turn to us and say: I do not want to have to decide between the loss of my work and the risk of my husband's health! – What about the civil servant who lives at home with the grandma, who is in operation during the day at the workers-Samariter-Bund or at the Red Cross and who may put the grandma at risk because of his activity? People are writing us! That is exactly what our requests are going in this direction. I wrote yesterday – you can kind of really personally share it – a woman from Upper Austria who is active in the care of the elderly: Thank you for your message! I don't have a good feeling after the press conference I've been running today. Minister Anschober said that “only” people with severe cancer, severe diabetes and organ transplants should be freed. You won't really want to consider people like me. Unfortunately, I also lack adequate information to help myself. I can only hope that everything will go well and that my years of cortisone intake will not give me another leg. Wish you and your family all love and health! - Quote. I do not think there is a simple solution to this issue. These are all the problems we face; these are people who belong to groups of risks and their families. We make a request because we hope that we can solve this together, and then it is simply said: We're not taking care of it, we're not talking about it! This is always about human fates! I really ask you to cross party borders: Take each other seriously! Every person who writes to us has a right to deal with these issues properly. I really ask you to take part in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues, on'measures to dispel social and economic consequences of the Corona crisis', which I am bringing in, so that we can solve the whole problem. In concrete terms, we do not abandon all the people who are now being hit very hard by this corona crisis: People who need a bridge money because they have to pay for the apartment – rent, gas and water; People who have become unemployed, who no longer have a job from one day to another – think they are sitting at home now, have a family, don't know for themselves how to go on, but should broadcast to the children for optimism! That's what it's all about. human fates! I really ask for approval, because no matter if it is the unemployment benefit that we should increase, whether it is the bridge fund that we should build, whether we say there should be no sorcerer or no business-making with human fates – all these are topics that we should get under control. So I really ask for support from the SPÖ request. Finally, a very, very central point, which would be important to me personally, namely a great request to you all: I think of Klagenfurt, of the supermarket in which I was, and of the salesmen's faces, of how in difficult times, although they were afraid, they always had a kind word for the customers and a smile on the lips as they were and fought. I think of the people who work in hospitals, in the medical field, in the care, the people at the security companies who have looked that people go in order in the buildings, to the buffeters, to all the people who kept our country running day and night. Please do not forget what these people did for all of us during these difficult times! Especially here in the high house – I remember – it has been called quite, very often: The service providers are actually just the people who have a lot of money in the account. But now one realizes that it's actually exactly the people who often work under the most difficult conditions that don't deserve much that we should build on. That's why: Please do not forget about these people after the crisis! Austria is only strong if all the people in Austria are really good! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5157	The motion for a resolution was presented in the broad guidelines and was distributed in accordance with Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5185	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, we already stressed: The top goal is to ensure health, to ensure the health of our Austrians and, of course, to safeguard the location and its businesses and thus millions of jobs. This objective, ladies and gentlemen, also serves all of our actions. We are, I think, still a little better than other countries through this crisis through these measures that we have taken together. The packages that we have decided for our entrepreneurs and for the various economic sectors are well-defiled. We are all working very hard to support our businesses in overcoming this crisis as much as possible. It is therefore also necessary – it is quite clear that we also call and talk about the opposition with many entrepreneurs and also with our colleagues – that we improve and adapt one measure or another; this also belongs to crisis management, and we do so again today: We're adjusting a lot. However, I would also like to say that there are measures that already work well, such as the hardening fund. Many have initially criticized that the Chamber of Commerce is doing this; I think it works very, very well: More than 111 000 applications have been completed in the last few days, between 300 and 500 employees of the Chamber of Commerce are fully occupied; 92 percent of applications have already been completed and over 90 million euros have already been transferred to recipients. I think that is what the organization is saying, thank you. The opposition has already confirmed yesterday in the Committee that very good work is being done. – Thank you for that too! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On the subject of short work: At the AMS there have been adjustments and it now works very well. More than 12,000 applications have already been submitted, most of which have been processed, and 250 000 workers are already in short-term employment. It is also very interesting that 50 percent of applications are made by entrepreneurs who have less than ten employees, so it fits now, I think, for both small and large companies. I would ask that this possibility continue to be used to keep employees in employment! Allow me a brief personal comment: I am very glad that both organizations, WKO and AMS, each have a very good head, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we have, of course, also put in place many measures to ensure liquidity in companies: 90 000 applications for tax relief, a volume of 2.5 billion euros. We have now launched the Emergency Fund, the Aid Fund, the Corona Fund – to mention the names – which will be implemented in the next few days and weeks. It is, I believe, also important that we adopt a law with this package to postpone the maturity of payments in credit contracts. The customers who want to take advantage of a support will communicate it simply and unbureaucratically by mail or by telephone of their home bank, and so it is done. Those customers who want to continue serving their loans as before do not need action. I think that we have found a simple solution in the interests of many consumers and micro-enterprises, which clearly explains the need for action. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we must also thank those who in the regions are constantly trying to support the Austrian economy with many small initiatives. There are many small platforms with online offers, many platforms in the region that ensure that you can provide one or the other. I would like to thank the organisers for these initiatives, because this also contributes to the strengthening of cohesion in the region. – A warm thanks for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A small appeal to fairness: Let's see that after this crisis, there is still enough business for our dealers and for our retailers! In this respect, I am looking forward to your support. Buy from the Austrian companies, that's very, very important! Thank you. [[Abg. Schellhorn: holidays!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5239	Next item is the report by Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5269	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Dear Austrians! So that not the wrong impression arises: We of the opposition – I think I speak for all the opposition parties – are of course available for a national shoulder closure if it serves to fight in a pooling of the forces of this virus and really come out of this crisis, in your sense. However, we cannot be available if the national epaulment tag serves to stop addressing abuses; if the national epaulment tag serves to ensure that the victims of this crisis – by name: the victims of the government's actions – no longer have a voice tube outside. Rather, we are obliged to point out these abuses, and we are committed to making proposals for improvement so that we can act in the sense of the Austrian population. In this sense, I can tell you quite clearly: While we are at our disposal, we are simply not ready to see how a national shoulder closure is misused for exchange or for a media linkage. We are also not prepared to carry a national closure for collective laws, in which one wants to shave everything over a comb, and in the context of which – even today again – one wants to decide many negative restrictions on the population with which one simply cannot agree. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as the population has a right to the truth, so the population has a right to real crisis management. In this sense, we need a strategy change from crisis PR to real crisis management. To do this, there are two things that need to be: This requires credibility and consistency. The credibility, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the government parties, does not come about by once and once saying hot, if I can formulate it in this way. If the chancellor says in mid-March that it would be wrong – I quote – to “walk through the area with protective masks – especially if it’s masks that don’t protect you anyway” and sit here with the same protective mask today, then that doesn’t help credibility and does not increase the trust of the population. Regarding the consequence, ladies and gentlemen, it must also be said that the salami tactics you display are not consistent enough. The Austrians can read that it was you who talked about the crisis and the virus over weeks. It's all understandable. While we have warned of the liberals and other opposition parties, you have not acted on the open borders, the airport and others. While you continue to allow demonstrations such as the Refugees-welcome demonstration by the Federal Government, at the same time you prove our population with sanctions and allow Austrians to control those who move alone on the road and are alone in the car. It's no longer understandable. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also not comprehensible to owe a mistake and your lack of consequence that you do not even manage to bring the oral protection orderly among the population. I would like to give you an advice: If you are not able to do so from the government – by the way, I suspect that if it is a matter of carrying out an orderly vaccination in Austria – then perhaps call Hitradio Ö3 and ask how it is possible to send the Ö3 wound bag with the mail to every household! This is more logistical than your action on oral protection. I can still quote: If we protect our population, we protect them with effective FFP3 masks and not with any mouthguards to which your own chancellor has said mid-March that they would not help. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a need for a change of strategy, because the measures you are setting produce exactly the victims that now remain economically and socially on the track. Whenever You are setting up a measure – do not misunderstand me, the measures are certainly important and many of them are also right – then you have to set up suspension and relief packages in parallel. You have missed that, and that is one of the reasons why we now have so many victims economically and socially in our country. Then we also need a change of strategy in the fight against the virus, so that we finally best protect those who need it most. – Briefly to the explanation: This is also the reason why the Freedom Party does not wear a mouth protection today. As long as our population is not adequately and comprehensively supplied with protective equipment, we say: We as politicians are no better than the average Austrian! We wear the mouth protection and protective equipment as the last! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] This is like the captain who is not the first to leave the ship or who is the first to wear the life jacket, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The last thing – I conclude – is: Guarantee the population that this circumcision will definitely have an end, by agreeing to our request today, which I am now submitting: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrians and the Austrians need a guarantee that this circumcision of their rights also has an end. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Prince: There have already been... applications!]] [[14:26]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5395	This motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5420	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. As mentioned by many previous speakers, the economic situation in the country is quite tense, and many companies are seriously affected by the crisis on the one hand and on the other hand by the measures that had to be taken for health reasons. However, it does not only concern companies, it also concerns associations, it concerns farmers, it concerns free employees and so on. However, the impact is very different, on the one hand as regards the height: There are companies that are very heavily affected by sales losses, others are less. On the other hand, there is also a great difference with regard to the nature of the problem: There are associations affected by the bans on events. There are establishments affected by bans. There are companies that are not affected by the bans but which are suppliers of such companies and therefore also have 100 percent sales losses. There is agriculture, where there is demand, which may also produce but which is lacking in the labour force. There are shops, such as pharmacies, where there is demand, for which there is no ban or similar, but in which one has to see that one can secure the resuscitation. There are then industrial enterprises in which the supply chain of value added is partially interrupted. The great challenge of the Federal Government is now to bring all these different situations under one hat or at least under two or three different hats – and not 100, so that the accusation does not come, that would be a bureaucracy sample. So far, I think this canal migration has been quite successful. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is the moratorium on loans, there are tax receipts, there is the short work, there is the model of the hardening fund that has already been presented It is. I would like to say a few words about the Corona crisis fund, which is because I believe that this is partly a bit confused and the question exists: Why are there two different funds? The hardening fund is very much concerned with the businessman's personal sphere, so to speak, providing the entrepreneur with income and ensuring personal expenses – rent and supplies. The emergency aid fund is concerned with cover for all companies, from small to large, the costs they have as a result of the corona crisis on which they sit, because the revenues are out. In addition, there are also those who have fundamental liquidity problems, and we also want to get under the arms of them. I think, at the same time, it has succeeded in anchoring certain access criteria, ensuring that social compensation is also guaranteed; for example, large businesses may not cancel employees if they apply for such assistance, no dividend payments may be made this year, and the management bonuses are also limited. I believe that this also shows that it is tried to cover the various dimensions of the problems that arise in this area as much as possible. This will certainly continue to be a difficult ride, but I hope for your support, including those of the opposition groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5474	The next speaker is Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5498	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister, I have to say that in principle everything sounds very good, that is the right way. We're on the right track, I think, and you have to respect that. It took a little while, but it's a step in the right direction. However, I do not want to use my speaking time for myself, I really want to dedicate it to that person and politician – I am now referring to this event legislation, especially to Article 26 with the resolution society – which has been heard many months ago in this House, I am devoting this speech to a politician who used to be known as Werner Kogler. Werner Kogler was one who was never – never! – Millions of Parliament’s control would have been deprived, Werner Kogler was never one of the millions of control - – – now it’s billions. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: billions!]] I quote him: He said at the time – that was 4th. October 2017 – “... a few hundred million,” “no one gets up,” and“ you get the panic. ” – At the time, he meant the dimensions of the black all-embracing rule, which he wanted to describe. But no, now – that's really true! – it's about billions, dear Vice-Chancellor! This speech, ladies and gentlemen, which you will now hear, would have given a Werner Kogler, as we once knew him, exactly the same way: Ladies and gentlemen! Not to be able to put the key in the door of a restaurant or fashion store for another day, not to be able to put the key in the door of a hairdressing salon or gym, not to be able to put the key in the door of the start-up office for a day, another day of helplessness, we don't want that, but we have to. That is true: we must, because the health of our fellow citizens is a priority. So we also have to say quite clearly that for many days the doors of restaurants and hotels will remain closed, the doors of gyms and hairdressers will remain closed for many days, and the doors of start-up offices will remain closed for many days. - Yes, we have to! Nevertheless, we must start today to think about how we can balance the balance between health and total economic collapses, this discrepancy. It's about everyone, not just entrepreneurs. It is also about jobs, i.e. how we can obtain these jobs. That's why we need to help quickly now. I – as Werner Kogler – once said: “Whoever helps quickly helps twice.” Three weeks have now moved into the country, and the entrepreneurs still have nothing in their hands. It does not prevent us from providing help. Quick and quick help, but also help that is so set up that not dark powers of the rulers are supported. We don't want to see in a few months that not the one who can, but the one who knows someone, has got help. – And that’s how it will be! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] All that this government has done so far is to camouflage, deceive and cover up: Throwing brucks, shoulder clasp, together. – Most of this government sees this end of the shoulder as a one-way road; the companies already feel it is a dead end. Why, please, are only constructions in which incompetent lobby groups are responsible? – Identification You're the quote, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? It was once! – Why, please, does the Chamber of Commerce and not the Financial Office become the distributor of aid? And: Why the hell is the Öbag with its subsidiary – a turquoise cartel in which Parliament is not allowed to look in – being charged with distributing money to billions? That's the question now. [[In the case of NEOS, members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Krainer.]] But what is even more important, ladies and gentlemen: It is not about Parliament with 183 well-paid Members, it is about those we represent here, the 8 million taxpayers – this is about it! It's also about who's gonna pay the bill. Who will pay this for our children in five or ten years? – The children themselves will have to do it! No, ladies and gentlemen, the people are allowed to do so, and the journalists in this country must not like this House either! – That is very important to me, we need to look closely! I quote again: "But I am not sure whether the Constitutional Legislator has predicted that ministers will go to this Parliament to explain to Parliament and to declare to Parliament that it is appropriate to keep the cardboards." – This too is a quote from me as Werner Kogler. Yes, I also said – as Werner Kogler – because it is a very bad tradition: Black Minister, black files! – I repeat: Black Minister, black files! Werner Kogler said that. No, ladies and gentlemen, we must not let Corona become the triumph of black and turquoise power cartel! For this I stand with my name or for that, Werner Kogler stood with his name. Finally, I should like to make one more motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Krainer.]] [[14:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5623	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs. Alma Zadić has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5647	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We are in the third week since the entry into force of the original restrictions in Austria. We have also taken numerous measures to protect the Austrians and all those living in Austria from infection as much as possible. Our everyday lives have changed enormously. Many people have lost their jobs, many are in short work, the shops are closed. We are all required to organize our daily life; many of us have to give up much because of the Corona crisis. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we are also going to overcome this crisis together, because each one is attacking. I would therefore like to thank all those who live in Austria who comply with all the measures. I would also like to mention briefly, in order to speak in the area of justice, that it is also being handled in the field of justice, because the judicial authorities have now changed their production and started to produce masks. The inmates and inmates produce about 3,000 masks a week, and I can tell you that these washable and reusable masks of cotton are still in Parliament today. [[Keeping a mask in height]] There are enough masks for all Members of Parliament and also for my colleagues on the Government Bank. You'll find them in front in small packs, and I'd be glad if you took these masks home as well. [[pointing to the ÖVP side entrance of the plenary room]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] At this point, I would also like to thank all the staff in the judicial institutions and, above all, all the inmates who are now working together so that we can cope with this crisis. We all, ladies and gentlemen, do not know how long this will take, but what we know is that people are afraid and that they are insecure. The virus not only affects health, it also has an impact on our economy and on each individual. People are afraid that they can't pay their rent, they're afraid they can't repay their loans, they're afraid of how it goes on. In order to speak to the judicial party present to you: We have matured and really tried to find a solution which is both economic and as well as the social situation. We have created for all those who currently live in rent, who are in considerable economic difficulties due to the corona crisis and cannot pay their rent, the possibility of a three-month delay in payment. In these three months between 1. ==References== In June, all those who are in financial difficulties have the option of not having to pay rents, and therefore they must not be terminated. You will then have the opportunity to settle the leases until the end of the year. No declarations will take place in these three months. With regard to all the rental conditions that end in the time of the crisis, we have now also legally guaranteed that tenants and landlords can agree on an extension. These regulations are, of course, applicable to all tenants and not only to those whose landlords are commercial, but really to all. We have also jointly agreed and achieved it for all people who have received a loan – and this also applies to all those landlords who have bought an apartment and cannot now pay the credit rate – that their credit rate will be lasting for three months. For all those who are in payment difficulties and who have to pay waiving interest rates, because private contracts often provide for hearing late interest rates, including collection costs, we have now agreed by law that they do not have to be paid and that the legal amount of late interest is sufficient. We have also tried to make reliefs in the judicial system. This year, we have been exposed to court fees increases, because we know that many crises also involve many legal proceedings, and therefore we do not want to impose more burdens on citizens. Company law should also make it easier for the Supervisory Board meetings and the Annual General Meetings to take place later, and we also want to allow them by video conference. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot, of course, take all the uncertainty in many cases – as people would need it in this exceptional situation – but I hope that we can at least manage in these sub-areas to frighten people and give them a certain degree of security. That is why I hope that the measures that give people a little security in uncertain times will find your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5718	Mr Heinz Fässmann has now spoken. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5739	High house! Madam President. The school has changed dramatically since 16.3. Teaching is done from home today, the school is no longer the primary place of learning and teaching. This change actually worked very well, because it was an immediate change that took place. At this point I would also like to thank all teachers who have done so, including all parents for their infinite patience in learning at home, and obviously also for the students. I would also like to thank the representatives of the coalition parties, but also the opposition. We keep holding telephone calls again and again – And these are inspiring conversations for me – how we can deal with this difficult situation. We will certainly return to the balance again, because at present health has priority, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, but there will again be a balance where society, the economy and health are consistent; I am convinced that I hope so too. Until now, I have been able to gain three very important insights from this new type of learning: The first is that there is a very great importance of self-organized learning, because what is happening now is a form of self-organized learning. The second thing I can see is that e-learning is a very good tool to promote deeper learning, but also individual learning. The third thing I read from these, if you want to, 14 days or two and a half weeks experiment with this new form of school and teaching is the following: The school is, of course, not a place of learning through the children's room, through the kitchen or the living room. School is much more than cognitive mediation. School is a place where friendships and conflicts are carried out and school is thus as if you want so, laboratory of learning so infinitely important for the morning. For this reason, I also say, I am looking forward to the balance that has to be restored – and that will come. These proposals for legislation give me a number of regulatory powers; Regulation empowerments because our school law is an incredibly complicated school law – and everything is defined: Schooling, schooling, holidays, the way to do a schoolwork, and much more. In the situation, I cannot accurately assess whether the school student, as it is now fixed, can be the actual school student. So I need a regulation authority for the appointment. I also need a regulatory authority on the question of whether the previous curriculums, which may not be completely completed due to the current situation, will be picked up in the next school year. That's possible, I think, too. In the end, I also need a regulatory authority to legitimise what is happening now, namely the so-called local education – it is not yet available in our school law. We also plan something like a supplemental lesson, especially for those students who may not come along so well now, because they come from a difficult socio-economic environment and perhaps do not have the technical infrastructure at all. Then, when it goes back, there is to be a teaching of funding. We have things inside that I have to say, these are things that only insiders know what they mean. I'm mentioning: In the Innovation Foundation Education Act, there is now the possibility that the funds can now also be used more flexibly in order to be able to pass on any terminal equipment more unbureaucratically. For example, we have also set up a school event fund because since 16.3. no more multi-day school events can take place. Now cancellation fees are due, and parents in their precarious situation will be able to cancel cancellation fees and thus tax their wallets. Perhaps not quite advisable, so there is now a hardening fund for these cancellations at multi-day school events. I was asked yesterday, my colleague. Why not have half a day or a day's events? – My feedback is that especially at half- or one-day events, then when a bus was booked, a lot of culture is shown because the bus company says the school has been a wonderful customer so far and it will also become a customer again. [[towards Abg. Vogl]] The problems that have arisen with me are the costly cancellations at multi-day events, and for the reason they are also in the focus. We also have in the - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5805	Mr Federal Minister, I would just like to draw your attention to this – that is why I have also set the speaking time – that the Austrian National Council – we all – has agreed on doing something like a self-restriction at the speaking time as far as the parliamentary instruments and rights of Members are concerned. This was done in the Presidential Conference, provided that the members of the government do. That is why, under these conditions, we have agreed on a time limit for the members of the government to speak. I wanted to draw your attention. It is a self-restriction, but in itself the speaking time we have agreed for the members of the government has already been exhausted. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Anger.]] [[Federal Minister Fässmann: Do you give me three more sentences?]] – Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5838	First sentence: I also have regulatory powers inside to regulate deadlines at universities. Second sentence: I also thank the universities for their adaptability. I wish the researchers who are active in the field of therapeutics and vaccines in connection with the corona virus, all the best, all the best, all the success, because ultimately, I believe, we will only be able to cope with this corona crisis through new therapeutics and vaccines. And my third conclusion is: I thank you in advance for perhaps getting a piece of borrowed power here. Be absolutely sure that I will deal with this borrowed power with great care! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5871	The next speaker is Mrs Maria Theresia Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5893	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house – here and at home! Dear Seers! I would like to take the opportunity to say thank you. I would particularly like to thank all the people who work daily in the fields of industry and industry, make use of it to ensure security of supply in Austria and, above all, to maintain the supply chains. They all show a very, very high degree of responsibility. But I would like to thank, above all, the entrepreneurs who, with courage, with a sense of responsibility, but also with confidence and with entrepreneurship through This valley of tears go. In my opinion, this is what entrepreneurs think: They do not usually mochker, but they do, they continue to work, they do their best, and they usually get through the crisis. I am convinced that companies will also be able to cope with this crisis, even if it is currently more gloomy when sales break out when supply chains are interrupted and if there is a risk that a supply shock due to lower incomes in Austria and all over the world may result in a demand crisis. In this context, I am particularly grateful to the Federal Government, which both have in mind: She is not only trying to save people's lives, but also, I believe, has put a very, very good bundle of measures in order to support companies and their employees as best as possible. It is important that we do everything we can now that, as soon as this crisis is over, we can re-establish the success of the past, secure or create jobs and, above all, create prosperity. As a research and digitalisation speaker, however, I would like to address two points. Especially in these times, the importance of research and innovation becomes visible. We are all looking for a way out of the pandemic, and only research will be able to give us an answer. I try again and again to point out the social relevance of research, and here it is brought to our attention in the most brutal way. They all play with: basic research, universities, clinics, large companies, small companies, the Penningers and Pfizers of this world, all are working on finding a vaccine and a therapeutic. I would also like to thank the Federal Government, which has provided almost EUR 25 million in research funding in a very rapid way, in order to make a step forward in terms of a therapeutic product or vaccine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I hope the image changes and the awareness in society of the need for research through this crisis increases somewhat. One last sentence to the school: How many of you I am currently confronted with putting a lot of things under one hat: Home office, Family, Home schooling. That's not always easy. The motivation of the children disappears, they lack their friends, but they also lack their teachers. That is why I would like to thank, of course, the parents who have provided work packages in a very good way, but also the teachers who have mastered the changeover in a very short time and who are now available online. At the same time, however, we are also aware of the challenges: Although the Ministry is currently working on high-speed projects – and I would also like to thank you for that – not all students are yet digitally connected and not all teachers are trained for digital teaching. I therefore now also see it as our task to move on as quickly as possible. – Perhaps this is one of the few positive aspects of the pandemic. Understandably, many want a perspective. Businesses need it to take a step back and plan for the future. The families need them so that the parents know how the students, with their children, and subsequently with them continue. I am confident that the Federal Government that, both the economy and the health, and is aware of it and that, when reliable data is provided, it creates clarity as soon as possible. But so that we can get a positive perspective again and get out of the crisis faster than many other countries – and that we can do that, I am convinced – it is important that we all adhere to the measures. Therefore: Stay reasonable! Avoid social contacts! Stay healthy above all! I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5972	Next, Mr Kai Jan Krainer has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e5996	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Speaking about almost 100 laws in 5 minutes is difficult, so I will focus on the essential or very few points. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Firstly, the question of dividend payment. When a company says: I don't have money to pay my taxes, then this company can't have the money to pay dividends either. When a company says: I don't have the money to pay the salaries, then this company can't have the money to pay dividends either. That is why there must be a ban on dividend payments for companies that use any state aid, because in Austria no one understands that someone who does not have the money to pay the taxes, on the other hand, can pour out millions himself so that he can buy a Porsche or whatever. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, the question of bonuses. That it is now generously said: The bonuses for top managers can only be half!, is not right. Now all among us: It's ridiculous if the manager of a company that receives 10 million euros of state aid says: I don't get 2 million euros of bonuses anyway, but only 1 million! – No, we need to limit salaries and zero bonuses when there is state aid. Please, these are people who are on the chocolate side of life. Remember that the cashiers, nurses and nurses are the service providers in this crisis, and do not try to save the bonuses of managers, as the government clearly has done! No bonuses for managers of businesses receiving state aid! That must be quite clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A third point, which is very important to me as the honourable Member in Vienna: I know that in the federal states 80, 90, some 95 percent of people have a garden and/or a terrace and/or balcony. But I'm telling you: In Vienna more than half has neither a garden nor a terrace nor a balcony, but a 60-, 70-square-meter apartment, in which three, four, five people live. This is different than perhaps the reality of life of many people in Austria. I don't have to explain that to the Viennaers, they know that, I say this for those who don't live in Vienna. I'll bring you an example from my constituency. [[A panel with the label ‘Belvedere’, on which an aerial image of a district of Vienna can be seen with a red colored area marked with a prohibition mark, pointing to the speaker’s seat]] This is the border between the 3rd and the 4th. ==References== There's a giant area, The Belvedere. Parts of it will not be open, there are the Palais Schwarzenberg and other buildings, but at least half of this area could be opened. Around densely built area, yes, there are also small parks, but you can't see them on this picture because they're so small. Please explain to us why, if we are to keep apart from each other and if Federal Minister Anschober says that it is totally okay to walk – everyone who has little children knows the need for movement – that Belvedere is blocked, so that the people in the Fasan quarter and on the meadows can no longer go into this park with a generous area! The same in the Augarten between the 2nd and the 20th. District all around densely built area, densely installed, in the middle! [[A panel with the label ‘Augarten’, on which an aerial image of a district of Vienna can be seen with a red colored area marked with a ban mark, pointing to the speaker’s seat]] It will only be possible to lock up half in the Augarten, which is clear to me. The Vienna parks are only half open because, for example, the playgrounds are to be, because the cages are to be and you can't stop playing football. But half of the area could be locked up. 100 000 people live in a radius of 150 meters from the entrances of the Federal Gardens in Vienna. We are not talking about all people from all over Vienna going there, but we are talking about people going to a adjacent park where they have enough space. The best example is Schönbrunn [[a panel with the label ‘Schönbrunn’, on which an aerial image of a district of Vienna with a large, red-colored area with a ban mark and a small, green-colored area on the right can be seen, pointing to the speaker’s coil and pointing to it]] There is the Auer-Welsbach-Park, which is this small green area. The newspapers say that this one was cracked on Saturday, because all people from Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus and Meidling are going there. 200 meters away is this giant park Schönbrunn. Please lock it up! Then not so many people are in the Auer-Welsbach-Park, then people also have space, because they want to keep away. Of course, they want to move outdoors, but they do not want to go on asphalt, but into a park – and 200 meters further away there is one that is ten times the size but is locked. Please explain to me: Why are the Federal Gardens closed in Vienna, while the Academy Park is open in Wiener Neustadt? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] He also belongs to the League. I grant this to the Wiener Neustadtern, but explain to me why the Wiener do not have the right to the federal gardens being locked up! Lock up the parks! Lock up the gardens! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It must be concluded that the Wiener can't go to their parks just because anyone at the federal level locks them up. I am therefore allowed to make the following request – now very formal – [[place a panel with the label “#GartenOn” on the speaker’s desk]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[15:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6199	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Nina Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6223	Madam President. Dear Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What we have in all the debates we have today – including on the Rules of Procedure, on the time of submission of applications, on the trouble that arises from them, and much more – is that I think we should hold on somehow, one thing: We want to protect Austrians from this horrific virus, and we also want to ensure that as few as possible of the corona crisis and its consequences are pitied as possible. Today, together, we take responsibility for the fate of the people living in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the fight against the economic crisis, particularly those who cannot rely on a thick bank account, those who have had to report unemployed, or at least fear that they will have to do so. The economic crisis is that it usually hits particularly hard those who don't have it super good in life anyway. We know that a lot of them are now also afraid that they will lose their home, and all the more so I am glad that we are taking at least this fear of them with the corona rental aid package – the Minister has mentioned it. It is possible to We won't let them be put in front of the door! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So, for example, if you have payment difficulties due to the corona crisis, you can pay back your rent hours and until the end of the year. If you have a temporary rental contract, make use of the possibility to go to your landlord and extend your rental contract! Thirdly, and this is the most important thing: If you are very acutely affected that you could be put in front of the apartment door, you should know, we say: No, all the declarations are exposed! – We have thus created a very, very effective instrument to counteract the threat of homelessness. This is of immense importance, for living is a fundamental right, and this is all the more so in a crisis. Leave Finally, as a financial spokesperson of our group, I should like to say something about the tax package: Today, in this package, we will make a few things tax-free. This includes, for example, the production of disinfectants or the payments from the hardening fund for the self-employed, which in the next few months are expected to fight their livelihood. However, my personal favorite tax exemption in this package is the tax exemption of the corona premiums for those who do a special service for all of us during this difficult time – that is just a quick thank you that we can express in this way. It's very small in my eyes because especially those we depend on – the employees in the supermarket, in the care, in the health system, the harvest workers, the cleaning workers; most of them are women – are, in normal circumstances, at the bottom of the wage scale. This corona crisis leads us painfully to see what kind of distorted value system we have in paying for work. There can be no bonus, no premium, no grant. If nurses post on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram: Stop claping, we'd rather make a better payment!, then they're damn right! The claping is an appreciation, but it does not pay the rent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I must make a formal motion for a resolution for my group, namely the request made by Mr Peter Haubner and Mr Jakob Schwarz on measures to protect critical companies from taking over from third countries – investment control. The National Council wants to decide: Federal Minister for Digitalization and Economic Location - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6280	Excuse me, Madam President, the text is not available to me, please wait a moment. The application is not signed either. I would ask that the motions for resolutions be properly put in place. The request is not before me, so it has not been properly submitted.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6299	Excuse me, then we will make the request to the next speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6326	This is what Mrs Dagmar Belakovich is talking about. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6347	Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I I would sometimes like the government and the government parties to stop with this policy of panic we are experiencing here regarding Corona. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic has come back here today and has made something again: Austria has come through the crisis at best! – On the basis of which data he says, I don't know. It means that there would otherwise have been 10,000 dead. There are always some numbers, and actually the citizen in Austria does not know where the Federal Chancellor and where the ministers actually have these numbers. I would sometimes like to see this vehemence, with which one tries to spread panic, also fight this economic crisis, because that would be necessary in times like this. We have the hardness fund, which is now being increased to 2 billion euros. That's good, that's nice. But from the outset we have criticized that 1 billion euros will be too little, and I am giving you today: Probably 2 billion euros are too few! But as supertoll – now I come to the But – as the representatives of the government parties have described here today, it does not work. Entrepreneurs haven't seen any money yet. You were only able to register for this support on Friday last week, i.e. it took almost three weeks. We arrived immediately at the weekend, decided, but then the Chamber of Commerce needed almost three weeks until it was able to accept the applications at all. This is not a matter of the Chamber – that is to say, you have to say honestly in this case – of course, it is the Minister of Finance, because this regulation has never existed. If the government, as Mr Wöginger said, works day and night, then the regulation would have to be there faster. That is, the entrepreneurs have not seen anything of it to this day. The SVA contributions can take them hours – that's nice too. It is likely that the EUR 1 000 they now receive as their first aid will, in any case, fall back on these contributions. So stop making yourself here and scattering sand into people's eyes! In the meantime, entrepreneurs in this country feel that what you promise is not respected. Change that now, take money in your hand and help those who need it! Nor do I see any reason to praise the Chamber of Commerce, which is dealing with this hardening fund, now for a fee. I can only quote the President of the Kärnten Chamber of Commerce, Mr Mandl, who stands up and explains in a press release: Many entrepreneurs are at risk of suicide. – I believe so too, but I think it is cynical, if the Chamber of Commerce is also said: Well, we pay for the first call, the rest of them have to pay for themselves. – Yes, what if the company is just going to crack because there is no support? That's cynicism! And a few days later, Mr. Mandl also calls the entrepreneurs “thousand feet”! – This is not an appreciation of the Chamber of Commerce towards those companies for which it should actually be there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A word to you, Minister of Health: You said today that half of all intensive beds in Austria was set free by the countries. – I take note of this kindly. This would mean that about 1 700 intensive beds are free. But now I've already said: We all here don't want us to experience a situation like in Italy, I think we agree on that. However, if I look at the figures from Italy from yesterday, yesterday in Italy a total of 20 692 patients in hospitals and already 3 204 were under intense obligation. Italy has 60 million inhabitants, Austria has eight million. These figures would be broken down in Austria: 2 759 patients in the hospital and 427 intensive patients. So if you're saying that our health system wouldn't pack that, then something doesn't fit together, Minister. I would ask you once to put ordinary numbers on the table, by the way, finally to give the death payments properly and not always to say who died with Corona, but definitely to say who died by Corona. It is precisely these figures that the mathematicians and physicists – these are the great advisors of the Federal Chancellor – then take and make any calculations out of it. These calculations cannot agree, these calculations are then insidious. So let's finally go the way that we indicate serious numbers, that we really limit ourselves to serious numbers, and start testing! A large daily has already brought it today, many people have been tested across the federal territory in the last few days, so to speak, random tests, including 350 supermarket employees – all of them negative. That's a very positive sign. It is now at last also time to think about how to bring our economy back back to life and finally stop this economic collapse.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6426	Mr Klaus Lindinger has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6447	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We are living in a quite extraordinary time, and when our borders are almost closed, I am particularly pleased that the level of self-sufficiency with food in Austria is extremely high. I would like to thank all those who work in system-related areas for the farmers, processing and the logistics operators and the employees in the supermarket. They all provide us with food of the highest quality. In addition to tourism, trade, gastronomy and many other areas, Corona meets agriculture. Family businesses have to take income losses of up to 100 percent and fear their existence. That is why I am particularly pleased that, with the third, fourth and fifth Covid package that we are currently discussing, we are deciding on measures to help the health of the population, the economy and agriculture. Now we need to work together to get out of this crisis faster and better than others. That is why I should like to make two amendments: firstly, the amendment tabled by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6471	Mr President, I would ask you to leave the floor briefly because I have no amendment. I will immediately learn how the state of things is. If you want, honourable Member, you can continue your speech. The introduction of an amendment is only possible if it is also available at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6492	Some measures are also being taken for agriculture: On the one hand, it is the extension of the hardness fund, which now also takes into account auxiliary farming farmers and multiple insured persons. This will increase to a total of 2 billion euros, and businesses can apply for up to 6 000 euros relatively easily and quickly in the next three months, if they have a 50 percent or more income loss to fear. This concerns all in the educational area – school at the farm, seminar farmers – all who offer vacation and room rentals, as well as all those who have supplied the gastronomy and schools. On the other hand, ten thousand jobs are missing in agriculture. Especially now that we stand at the beginning of the asparagus harvest and need the harvest helpers, this is particularly bitter. Therefore, there are measures to extend the period. A special measure is the platform dielebensmittelhelfer.at, which is to be jointly initiated by the Federal Ministers of Finance Köstinger and Aschbacher, the LKÖ and the Economic Chamber of Austria, and to bring together the volunteers who want to help, and those companies that need support. We still need to work to ensure that these are actually used as support for businesses. It is precisely this cohesion that we all need to achieve together. Food chains now praise German butter, although we have overproduction in Austria, or they price non-food products, while our small shops and locals must have closed. That's why my appeal is: Buy from the direct marketers after this crisis, buy from regional businesses, thus secure jobs and support the economy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6522	Mr President, I now have this amendment. I would like to draw your attention to this: In order for it to be properly introduced, you must read it, not just explain it in the basics, because it has not been distributed. I assume that you are now making use of the possibility of making this amendment properly. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6540	Yes, Madam President: [[Quoted print version removed]] I shall make a second request. [[15:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6771	Mr President, this amendment has now been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. In particular, it is always necessary to read what the Council of Nations has to decide in second reading. I have just become aware of the fact that there is another amendment that you will bring in, honourable Member. I must, however, take a brief look at whether this is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute, please. . I have just been informed that another Member will bring in another comprehensive amendment. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Lindinger.]] Mr Karlheinz, rapporteur, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I do not need to explain to you the rules of procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6819	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Belakovich has previously claimed that the Federal Government's support measures have not yet paid money to entrepreneurs. I'm correcting: At 12 o'clock today, a total of 114 000 applications, of which 93 percent were processed, have already been paid 93 million euros to entrepreneurs from the German Federal Government's hardening fund, which is handled through the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mrs Belakovich quoted Mr Jürgen Mandl, President of the Carinthian Chamber of Commerce, or criticised the statement that he had called the entrepreneurs in Carinthia a thousand feet. Rather, it is correct to point out that the structure of the Austrian economy is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises which represent the backbone of the economy, that after the crisis Austria will need to build up these “permanent thousand feet” of the many thousand companies – micro and small enterprises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] It is certainly a false statement to conclude that he would have titled and insulted the individual entrepreneurs in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6871	That is what we are going to do in the debate. Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6900	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear right at the beginning of a debate, so that there is no misunderstanding: Yeah, the lockdown was right. Yes, it is about human life, so we can only hope that the measures taken will also prove successful. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a second crisis that we must focus on: It is about the crisis of our economic system. This requires, above all, improvements in efficiency, but also transparency. But let me start with the joint: As far as the goal is concerned, we all agree: It's nothing less than commuting our economy to a level like it was before the crisis, or, if you want to, if you now gradually loosen the lockdown, that then the economic system actually looks the same as it was before the crisis. That's the right way, that's not a question – but it needs a lot more speed. With every day that nothing happens in this area where no money flows, it will be so that companies go bankrupt, and so we have more unemployed people in our country. This brings me to efficiency: Remember that we have five different disbursement points for the promotions – up to the AMA, which you also had to get into the boat last week, so that it can also speak with some kind of talk. With such a mess, efficient crisis management is not possible. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It's too bureaucratic, it's too complicated, and especially it takes too long. And please, who needs this newly created COVID-19 financing agency of the federal government? Now the ÖVP is still saying here in the morning, there was a depoliticization of decisions – with a black and with a green managing director, seriously?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] I mean, seriously. There can really be no debate about depoliticization. Of the ÖVP we are quite used to the fact that there are sometimes such reflections: Let us move the responsibility somewhere else, let us oppose the control a little, so that Parliament does not have such good control possibilities. – Yes, this is happening here, but what the Greens are doing, very seriously, there you have to say, they are abandoned by all good spirits! I have been working in an international group for more than ten years, and I really exchange a lot with colleagues from the same industry, but also from other industries. If you look at what is happening there and how an absurd construction is built to maneuver through the crisis, then everyone who comes out of the economy really says: Oh, my God, how can you do that? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This brings me to my second point, transparency. There are, in principle, two demands that we have. The first is a very clear and also quite easily feasible: It's just about separating the Coronabudget from the regular budget. This is very easy, you can easily set up with your suggestions. Another point that is also important to us: All the grants paid will also appear in the transparency database – not only those coming from the federal government, but also those issued by the countries! We hear that all here are preparing their own packages. – All the countries have finally reached to keep the laws in force! It's about taxpayers, they don't grow on the trees. It is about working not only in planning and implementation, but above all in comprehensible. We are not only guilty of this, but above all also of the following generations, because they will still deal with what we decide in this House today. – Thank you and stay You're healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e6979	Mr Markus Koza has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e7001	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Madam President. Dear sisters at home! The Corona crisis has a strong grip on Europe and the world. The unemployment rates across Europe, if they are already known or published, speak a clear language: In Ireland, as a result of the Corona crisis, an increase of 300,000 people is feared – an increase of 4.8 to 17 percent. In Spain, the unemployment rate has already increased by 300,000 registered unemployed as a result of the crisis, and the number of unregistered unemployed is estimated at 900 000. Norway is experiencing the highest unemployment of the post-war period, where unemployment has increased since early March from 65 000 people affected to 291 000. In Israel, the unemployment rate is more than satisfactory, where as a result of the Corona crisis, one million people are currently unemployed. These are snapshots – many European countries that have recently adopted measures have not yet published their unemployment figures. However, there are signs of this also in the crisis, or it is foreseeable in the crisis, that labour market policies, as they are taken across Europe, can, fortunately, also work well in Austria and prevent the worst. The short-term work is one of the most important means of labour market policy not only in Austria. In France, for example, every fifth employee, every fifth employee – four million people – is in short-time work, in Germany 470 000 companies have already applied for short-time work, in Switzerland there are 100 000 companies with 1.2 million employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] In Austria we have secured 250 000 jobs thanks to short work, currently requested by 12,000 companies. However, the figures also show that short work is still expandable, that we have not yet reached the ceiling we are seeking. I am very glad that today it will be decided that the framework for short work will be increased to EUR 1 billion, and I am also convinced that this will probably not be enough. One thing is clear: The focus must be on preventing cancellations as much as possible and bringing as many people as possible into short work as possible. The fact that the request for short-time work alone is sufficient for banks to obtain bridging funding is already a sign that it will be made even more attractive and even easier and should be used even more. I would like to thank, in particular, an institution which really does not suffer from a lack of labour and is close to the limit of its capacity, its possibilities: That's the AMS. That's the thousands of AMS. Staff who are currently busy with the fact that the people who get into unemployment receive their benefits as soon as possible. These are the people who currently have thousands of short-term job applications to deal with, these are the people who, in my opinion, have experienced too little appreciation so far, and I think it is really important to thank this institution, its employees and also its managing directors. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The AMS is also currently unable to perform much more or organisational changes. I am all the more pleased that today we are taking the decision to increase the Family Hard Fund by EUR 30 million, even if I personally would have preferred to increase family supplements directly at the AMS. However, it is at least a means – an important means – with the vulnerable families, vulnerable children at risk of poverty, especially in times of crisis where household costs also rise can be adequately secured. Since the Corona crisis not only strengthens our economic system, our overall financing system, but also our health insurance funds, due to support, loss of revenue and additional expenses, I have tabled the following two motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[15:37]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e7240	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e7264	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens! I would like to refer, of course, over the next few minutes to the issue of education and school issues in this package of legislation. If we want to take something positive from this crisis, from this terrible crisis, then it is one thing: that many in our society have now seen and experienced what educators do every single day in Austria's school system. I would like to thank you very clearly and explicitly for this. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Prince.]] Unfortunately, however, especially in this crisis situation, the weaknesses, especially the failure of the last Federal Government, are being borne very clearly, namely the aspects related to digitization and home schooling. Many emails I get that it is very difficult to deal with these situations, and I also experience them again and again in my environment. There are really many families in which both parents are at home at home, work on computers, make teleworking and also teach and accompany their own children, practice and learn with them. - It just doesn't work out. There are also a lot of children in our country whose mother tongue is not German and their parents cannot learn German enough to train them, to support them, to learn with them. These children are really hard to find in this situation. But there are also too many children – the studies and surveys speak of 20 percent – who cannot now be reached by their educators and who have no opportunity to attend and learn digital teaching, distance learning, because they do not have the hardware and software and the parents simply do not have the money to buy these things. It is already significant that there is a need for civil society commitment once again, for these children to be provided with computers for the first time today. In the current situation, the different family background of the children is once again full of learning opportunities, because this balancing factor school is missing, because it makes a difference whether children can learn and work at home in the children's room or sit in a small apartment with one, two, three, several siblings, in the closest room, and perhaps also have to share a computer. It makes a difference what schooling parents have and whether they can help with it on school issues. It must not be necessary for the It is our damn duty, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that no child remains in such a crisis. [[Consistency with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Steinacker.]] No one here in this room, in the population or elsewhere is responsible for our being in this crisis situation, neither you, Mr Minister, nor the maturants who now sit at home and do not know how to proceed with their own matura. The big difference between the Maturants, the families or the single parents who are sitting with the children now at home, and you, Mr. Federal Minister, are the following: You have it in your hand to make decisions. In this situation it is too little to just drive on the lookout. It needs crisis management, it needs the development of scenarios, it needs the preparation and planning of these scenarios, and it also needs communication; parents should know what they are about, they need planning security. Of course, the corona infection figures are the basis for this – that is clear – but it needs scenarios, it needs planning and it needs information from parents, teachers and students about what is happening in the next few weeks, because the pressure in the family is enormous, Mr. Federal Minister. It is not easy to get through all this, and therefore we need solutions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are a number of them: There are ideas for gradual uphilling, for a kind of shift operation in school. There is also the idea of bringing in those children who cannot now participate. Of course, it is also necessary to switch to school types, because pupils of secondary school are used to working on the learning material themselves and working on the computer, but a seven-year-old adult student simply does not, and you also have to pay attention to it accordingly. As I said, a stress situation paired with uncertainty is not much longer portable and we need the scenarios as it can continue. You, Mr Federal Minister, today alone, through the majority you have in the government groups, are equipped with large powers which cannot be in a normal situation. But authority and power also means taking on responsibility, and it also means that you have to account, here in our House, and we will demand these accountability obligations very accurately and intensively. And what's very important to us: The weakest in our society, those people who are particularly affected by this crisis, must not come under the wheels and do not aggravate inequalities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e7353	I call Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e7377	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak today, because there is always a lot of talk about risk groups, older people and people who do a lot – whatever is true – of course, a lance for the young generation in this country. This is the first real crisis that we are experiencing, and very often it is said that it would be done with corona parties or the like. I would therefore like to say that our generation is doing a lot: She volunteers for civil service, she helps with Neighborhood aid projects or they report to the Miliz. The young generation is doing a lot; I would also like to say a great thank you at this point, because this has never happened here. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Scherak.]] I am not enough to thank myself either, so I would like to stress that all students who choose to make a contribution now – in whatever form, for example in civil service – will not only have problems in their studies, but also that this will be recognised in the form of ECTS. That's a part of what we decide today, and I think that's just good and quite so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs Künsberg Sarre and Stögmüller.]] For all other students, it is ensured that they have no disadvantages at all, that there is a kind of neutral semester in which aid, other certificates of performance, is pressed on hold. This is also very important. A group that is very under pressure, which is very tense, are the maturants, and I would like to say to them: We will do everything possible to make the Matura feasible, fair and definitely reasonable this year. I can assure you, the Minister can assure you. We are in contact with the student representatives, we are in contact with those concerned, we are trying to room a reliable solution and will also very soon present a solution that is also reliable and at which everyone knows what is happening to him. I think it's better, we wait a few more days, make a solution that has hands and feet than that we say every day, maybe one date would have failed or the other date would have failed. I think that this is better and creates more security than some kind of demand that is now being addressed to us. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Finally, I would like to make two more amendments: Amendment tabled by Members August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, BA, colleagues on Amendment 402/A, as amended by the Committee's report 115 of the Supplements, TOP 2. This request has also been submitted. Because of its length I ask for reproduction and distribution in the hall and will only explain it in corner points: It is about the fact that the contributions from the hardness fund are not only tax-free – that is already regulated – but that they are also exempt from social security contributions. I believe that it is also very important to maintain this, and this is ensured by this amendment. Also in the second amendment tabled by Members August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, BA, colleagues on Amendment 402/A, as amended by the Committee's report 115 of the Supplements, I would like to ask for a copy and distribution based on its length. This is about how to define the risk groups and how to deal with workers who fall into these risk groups, so that they are also made service-free and have transparency about how this process works. Finally, I would just like to say to the young people out there who might be particularly interested in going out and meeting: Keep going, because it's not just about protecting health, it's not only about getting back to normal as quickly as possible, but it's also about that normality is a good one afterwards, that if we really stick to everything, we're coming back soon and those who have completed their trainings also have prospects for a job again! These are the things that it's all about. So I think there are infinitely many reasons why we should stay at home now, stick to the measures and see that we have to do so well. bring the stage. Thank you. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hamann and Mr Stögmüller on his work.]] [[15:48]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e7890	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these two major amendments are now before me, and it is possible, of course, that These are also multiplied and distributed in the meeting room. This is not the case now, however, because they are still being printed out. I cannot therefore present these comprehensive amendments to you now. I suggest that if anyone wants to see the two requests, I can see them. I have been promised that these applications will be distributed over the next 5 minutes. In this sense, if there is no objection, I would proceed in this way and consider these applications to be filed, but would like to point out that they are to be distributed in the next few minutes. Mrs Susanne Principality has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e7924	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A federal government must act in the emergence of a new rapidly spreading virus, which is very dangerous for a particular population group. It is one of the tasks of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to take a very quick and comprehensive view, to develop and act on a strategy. This approach must then also be communicated in a factual, comprehensive and understandable manner. In addition, there are all the press conferences, press releases and the social media possibilities for the members of the government. The people should be made to understand what is going on, and there is also the place to explain why not follow the recommendations of other experts who propose a different strategy. As an opposition, we have carried out all the measures that have been adopted since mid-March, since they were measures to combat the epidemic. Now it is a very narrow welcome from the fight against the epidemic to the political instrumentalisation of the epidemic with various fundamental rights and freedoms restrictions for citizens, which may no longer be proportionate. As I see it, the Federal Government is now increasingly unable to resist this temptation. There are, of course, different opinions on the development and sensible control of the corona virus between physicians, economists, mathematicians and other scientists. This is not surprising in the case of a novel virus, nor can you accuse anyone, but it is quite clear that the facts of different scientists are also assessed differently. One can put the victims of the virus in the foreground, but one must also take into account the victims of the economic crisis and the measures and see that then not more victims than by fighting the virus. These different views of scientists should be mediated and discussed, and it should also be comprehensible by the Federal Government, why it has been followed by those scientists who have recommended the drastic measures. However, the opinions of the experts who differ from the government line should not be referred to as dangerous attempts at violence by coronavers, whose opinion is life-threatening, the unresponsible quacks, which now play only with the fear of the population. - No, they don't! That's not the case! The government must convince people with arguments, but not by simply disappearing the opinions of those who deviate from the line of government, and seeking to do so, that they disappear, for example by setting up a digital crisis team. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This sounds harmless, but this crisis staff, with the help of police students, is now sniffing around the Internet for opinions contrary to the government line around the clock. They should be found, corrected and destroyed. There you can only say: Where are we? Citizens who exchange via messenger services are also being eroded. The citizens want to exchange freely there, they want to form their own opinion, and that is their good right – even in the crisis! While the Federal Government may have to prescribe measures, it does not agree with one another, since freedom of expression must nevertheless be maintained. The Federal Government must decide, but it is not yet in possession of the truth for a long time and should not be removed. She has also demonstrated impressively in the past few weeks, through many contradictory statements, that she is not in possession of the absolute truth. If you want to stick to the course of the East Asian countries in the future, as the Federal Chancellor has announced, which has already been successful in the fight against the virus, I can only say: Very reasonable! The only problem is that a strategy has so far been adopted which is diametrically opposed to the strategy of these countries. What has led to success in these countries? – Very early medical equipment for hospitals, but also masks, not only for staff, but also for citizens; very early mass tests including fast test drive-ins with subsequent isolation of the sick – and not vice versa. We didn't do that. To a very early cover mask wear in the public it has been said to us: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Closed limits: The East Asian countries do not have such a major descent – we do. And then there is only one more reason from which they are certainly very successful, namely Big Data, the surveillance that has a different tradition in these countries. But I would now ask the Federal Government: If it has not been followed by these Asian countries in all other measures, it should not now do so with Big Data. We don't need any surveillance, we still want to move freely! It should not only be possible to move freely, which allows for monitoring by step and step. However, the Green Minister for Justice has said that there is no individual monitoring. We rely on it! I'm sure she'll get through there. Just one sentence to the Green Members who are now so excited about Viktor Orbán and Hungary and so outrage: Please, ladies and gentlemen, during the last sessions you have agreed to the greatest restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms since the Second World War – in order to stay with this phrase that we have heard very often today – with your coalition partner. So why don't you get excited about the fact that in Hungary, Viktor Orbán has a wealth of power and leaves emergency decrees: This is regulated in the Constitution. Unlike you, Viktor Orbán has a two-thirds majority, which he has already been granted by the population in several legislative periods. [[Calls to the Greens.]] When the vice chancellor speaks of a "semidicture": So please, come in Austria at your own door! Make sure that no comprehensive over- Watch is coming, and take care of the semi-economic crisis in which we are already in! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] [[15:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8153	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8177	Madam President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If, as we are used to, we are talking about changes in the school sector, we usually have to think in generations or decades. This time there was a crisis, and everything happened almost overnight. In fact, it is really in the literal sense that teachers and teachers have stayed overnight and have come up with new things must: How to keep in touch with their children about chat, whatsapp, e-mails and videos and how to organize all of this with the teaching. And the children and the parents have also come along properly and have been sitting in between for three weeks now, next to the home office, regularly at the kitchen table or somewhere in the storeroom, or in front of the one computer there is, and the printer, which is probably not available at all. But quite a lot of people have done this somehow, and that was really a huge achievement that everyone involved can be proud of, and we can also do it. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, this is not over yet, and the school year is not over yet. We will still have to improvise, we will have to remain flexible, but we must ensure that we do not leave anyone alone. And we will have to do something specifically for those children who have not been able to understand this lesson so far, and we will be able to confirm that I am not going to let go of it, especially for those children who have not been able to do so well with this home schooling. I agree with Mrs Hammerschmid's analysis in large parts because at home either there are no parents, or parents who do not have time, or because there is no place at home, or there are no resources, or there are no viable relationships, but there is fear and lack and stress and perhaps quite a mess. That is why in this bill, in this great package that we decide today, there are also new, interesting words inside, for example, the word “additional instruction, ” or words such as“ learning time, ” and mandatory “promoting instruction. ” In this transition phase, until we can all return to schools, we will have to think of some new things, we will have to work in small groups in transition phases, we will have to work much more individually, we will have to find intermediate forms between school and home. Perhaps we will consider models for coaching, individual learning, and we will probably have to do something – perhaps not all but individual groups – during the holidays. I remember the very successful models such as the summer training camps, which have been available for example in Vienna for a long time. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] A fear: Of course, teachers will not have to do it all alone. You are of course also concerned that much remains to be done on them. For this reason, this package of laws contains measures which, for example, allow students to be more involved, so that they can also collect ECTS points and practice for their studies. In that sense, I really believe that this crisis can also open a door and we can try out a lot, which may in the long term even change the everyday life of school in a way that will benefit us all in the end. I therefore also welcome the NEOS resolution – which they are likely to bring in at the same time – which concerns the evaluation of e-learning, which we of course also support. It also opens a door to new impulses in our schools. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8235	Mrs Mag. President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8264	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! Today, home schooling ends in the third week. Mr. Minister, you said earlier that the changeover that worked well. – Yes, he has worked well where there are parents who can support their children in learning, home schooling and who have the necessary resources and channels. We also know, however, that this much quoted social Distancing is increasingly leading to a greater learning distance. We know that about 20 percent of pupils are not accessible to their teachers, and I wonder what has been done in the last three weeks to help teachers approach these children. So just notice, we know – now comes Easter, then it is four weeks in which some children have not been reached – is a little too little. The second point we want to make is the future perspective autumn. What does that mean? – There needs to be a clear announcement and no postponement of the shift of matura. The young people who no longer knew when or how to make their matura from one day to the next are very unsure. At a time when uncertainty or uncertainty are already quite large, this is rather counterproductive. It needs a clear announcement or a clear commitment as it can continue in autumn, a transition phase. Many parents are concerned that in the autumn it will continue quite normally, that the pressure for their children is too great and that they will not come after it. I already know that the draft law states that curriculum content can be distributed differently between school years. But that's too little for us. You mentioned earlier that there is new experience regarding self-learning that e-learning is a great opportunity to open up further opportunities. In this regard, it takes greater flexibility to be able to leave out learning material, to look into the framework curriculum and to consider – it is a good opportunity to ask if this is still useful, as we do – and perhaps to be able to include new content. The Corona theme is a good example of this. In my opinion, it also needs clarifications about kindergarten. So to repeat over and over again that not you, but the countries and communities are responsible is too little. In the area there is also a strong uncertainty as to how things continue. Another group and how it is about has not yet been discussed, namely children with special educational needs. How are they and how are their parents doing? The scientific study has already been addressed, I am pleased. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then I have a concern regarding the involvement of a representative, a representative of a representative of people with disabilities in the SKKM and therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, another point that is really very important to me personally: It's about the maturants again and again – and we've heard it today as well. When I hear of the great fear and read that the heury maturants, if the central matura does not take place as planned, will be considered as a corona vintage or will be a second-class vintage, then I find it really cynical. The opposite, I think, will be the case: It will be a vintage that has done a great deal so far – up to the eighth class or the fifth class BHS – and deserves special respect from us, because these young people will successfully finish school under most adverse circumstances – whether with or without central matura. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:07]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8437	Both applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Katharina Kucharovich is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8465	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I do not know what you have an impression, but since three weeks ago, there have been very rigorous measures, I have the feeling that the last three weeks many have survived very well. But now, ladies and gentlemen, it starts with people to fry with all of us. There are fears there and there are crazy concerns. It is our job – we all strive – to really take as many people as possible these fears and concerns. We need to get even better in this. In fact, when I think of the 562 522 people who have become unemployed – it is about existences, personal existences, existences of children, of families – it is inconceivable that it has still not been managed by all companies to accept the offer of short work comprehensively. There are still companies that don't. I appeal to them not to give notices, but to accept the model of short work. Short work, ladies and gentlemen, because I have already heard this, does not mean the same performance for less salary. I would also like to make this appeal on the spot. The number of unemployed people who have to live on is much less. That is why our request to finally increase unemployment benefit is also so important. You postponed it yesterday, but it's quite honest: Let's all get a back, it needs that now! Just accept our request! People need it now – quite simply – urgently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also brewing with individuals. I and probably all of you have been asked the question: Why did you actually take out the epidemic law? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, why did you do this? – These concerns and the relief of § 32 in the Epidemie Act – which would have really prevented so many unemployed –: This is clearly on your cap! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also brewing, ladies and gentlemen, with the artists, with cultural intermediaries, in the creative economy, with the cultural workers. What has now been presented – the hardness fund – is not grasping. The short work does not take effect either because artists have a completely different reality of life and we know that from the report on their social situation are in a completely different situation. Once you are self-employed, once you are self-employed. It's already falling out of the hardening fund. We finally need a real rescue screen for everyone in the art and culture scene. Let's see what Austria's cultural nation really has on it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address another group in which it is also bubbling – my previous speaker mentioned it –: among the elementary teachers – mainly women – and elementary teachers. Mr Minister, we all know that it is country competence, but we are expected to draw up a directive – together with the elementary teachers, together with the federal states. At the moment, it is the direction which children may or may not come by reason of which argument, or the people – even the educators, the elementary teachers – hang in the air. There are also fears, because the protective equipment is not available. What steps can be taken? It needs a lot of things there, very urgently. I can also address this appeal to you at this point. Another aspect: Personally, when the Federal Chancellor throws around with the term Big Data, it's bubbling. It's really brewing in me and in many others, because, honestly, it's about our fundamental and freedom rights. What does he mean by that? What does he mean by the use of Big Data? It simply has all borders, even the pandemic is bordering, ladies and gentlemen: Borders of democracy, borders of the rule of law and borders of personal freedom and personal data! Dear government, you have to take this seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: They all know that we are in cities and communities at home, and the great unemployment also has an impact on the municipalities. It is, of course, very clear about the local tax. A well-developed social state is an essential basis, but many things the municipalities do. I remember that schoolkeeping, kindergartens, now, in the current phase, fire brigade, rescue and much more; therefore, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please vote You want this proposal, the communities and thus the citizens need it urgently! In conclusion: Shoulder closures, ladies and gentlemen, are not a runway, shoulder closures are a match. Take this seriously and finally live it! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:13]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8629	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly implemented and is under negotiation. We now come to an actual correction by Mr Hanger. - Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8656	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rendi-Wagner, if I may briefly ask for attention! You have said in your speech – and I have the Stenographical Protocol – that a 54-year-old patient has called Lower Austria three times for shortness of breath at 144 emergency calls and has been referred three times to the family doctor, and in a second passage you have pointed out that someone has waited 30 minutes for the emergency doctor. I'm actually correcting: I spoke to the managing director of 144 emergency calls in Lower Austria. It is definitely excluded after a data check that someone has to call the emergency doctor three times if he is short-breathed; that is not available in the system. [[Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That is, I think, especially in times like these, in which we should all help to ensure that there is no uncertainty, quite, very important. There's no way someone's waiting for the emergency doctor for 30 minutes. Especially in these times, it is extremely important that we do not add to the uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8697	Mrs Schallmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8721	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Last, but not least of course, ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens at home! Now we have heard here and also in the last few days the demand for a generous easing of the measures taken so far. All the results so far – the development of the new infections – are very positive by the bank, it all looks good. Let's open the schools, the universities again, let's end the time of restrictions and cuts! I have no question that the measures put forward are slow, but certainly also the substance. I am, like all of us here in Parliament, in a very, very privileged situation. Of course, it must be all the worse for all those outside people who may live in too small an apartment and have fears of existence, fears of their own health or the health of the elderly in the family or at risk of patients in the environment. It is definitely not pleasant to live so limited, to have no social contacts or very few social contacts, just to get out very limited. It is also – we do this in here today, at least my group does – not exactly the most pleasant to be on the road all the time with mouth-nose protection. Yes, and of course it is not very pleasant, Being constantly confronted with the fact that a disease has our country, in fact, all of Europe, firmly in hand and that one feels a little powerless in doing so. So why do we do the whole thing when it's all so unpleasant? – We do it because we see the pictures from Italy, Lombardy, from Bergamo every day. We do it because we know how many people die every day in Spain and in France. We are doing so because we see what comes out from the example of the United States and Great Britain when a system collapses when a health system is either broken or not present from the outset and collapses because there are so many people who need the support of this health system. We have all agreed on the measures we have taken so far. The last two packages have been decided unanimously. That was good, too, because it was also a corresponding signal to the population. That is why I would like to see at least the health policy measures in these packages taken together today. It is simple, important measures that it takes to provide the pandemic according to Paroli. We can work together very constructively, as we proved in the early days. Today, we had a video call with the Minister, in which all the health speakers of the political groups were together and – how to say? – have recently found a quick solution to the issue of information transfer at Covid-19 positive tests to domestic doctors. There was a corresponding concern on the part of the medical board, and today we found a quick solution in the early morning. – Thank you at this point, by the way, to colleagues Kaniak von der FPÖ, on whose initiative this took place at the end of the day. Let us put these measures together again today. We agree together with the health policy measures and we are sending a signal and a sign that we want to fight this crisis together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8770	It is now Mr Mag. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e8791	Mr President. Dear Lords of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I will make two amendments to my group. First of all, I would like to make a motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Hannes Amesbauer, BA, colleagues on the report from the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 402/A to the 3. Introduce COVID-19 Act, TOP 2. In view of its size, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal will be distributed, so I will briefly explain it in its basics. From our point of view, instead of the Chamber of Commerce, the financial offices are to take over the execution of the hardening fund. This has been called for several times, creating fairness and transparency. We want to increase the funds for short work from the one billion euros provided for in the request of the government parties to 4 billion euros. In accordance with our amendment, employers should be entitled to a compensation of 100 per cent of the Special care period paid to workers by the Federal Government. According to the Government Party's request, employers should be fed only by one third. According to this application, no certification is required for the oral nose protection masks according to the Medical Products Act. In any case, we demand certification. I would ask you to agree to our amendment. Just as the masks were talking about: If these mask paroles have already been issued – whose effectiveness is not completely scientifically clear – if this is the line now, then we support them. But then it should also be so that the population will be provided with these masks, that the medical and nursing staff in particular will also be equipped with the higher classified masks before we politicians will be provided with these masks, because I believe that does not make a good picture and is not really fair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to make a motion for an amendment by Mrs Herbert Kickl, Mag. Hannes Amesbauer, BA, colleagues on the item on the agenda 3, report of the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 403/A, 4. COVID-19 law. This is also a very comprehensive proposal, it will be distributed and will be available to you, ladies and gentlemen. In order to cope with the current crisis, the following necessary changes – in a shortened form – are to be made on 4. COVID-19 legislation: Federal housing aid for tenants of an apartment which, as a result of the Covid-19-Pandemy, is significantly affected by its economic performance; Federal housing aid for persons who are significantly affected by their economic capacity as a result of the Covid-19 Pandemic and who cover their housing needs through the use of loans; direct democracy by popular desire must not be restricted; Austrian citizenship is a high asset which must not easily be granted even in times of crisis; time-limitation of constitutional changes; Ensuring democratic participation in municipal councils. Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said today about the need for the national shoulder closure. This is another example; Amendments are necessary. It is simply not fair and it does not do well for parliamentarianism and democracy if we adopt almost 100 laws and legislative changes in two packages. It's a hair or death policy. Some of what the government is getting in the way is really good. But there are also things that we do not like. That's exactly the way it is: Fresh or dead! If we all agree, we must also agree with those measures that we do not want; if we reject them, we also reject the sensible measures. We had already had these 20 minutes of time to do something in this area and to vote individually. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish that the Federal Chancellor and the government are not only on the road as apocalyptic riders and are proclaiming evil, but that they give hope to people. The slogan that everything needs to be done, I want to correct: We have to do the right thing, ladies and gentlemen. Big Data must not be spoken the word. There must be no state supervision of all citizens. We must not throw fundamental and freedom rights easily overboard. If the Federal Chancellor says we have to do everything, and I say we have to do the right thing, it is about protecting life and saving the economy. When we talk about the economic consequences of this crisis, We are also talking about social consequences, about the naked existence of Zig thousands, ladies and gentlemen, and we should take more specific action, perhaps protecting the risk group even more specifically, but at least not attracting the entire economy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen in Austria! Even if you see some things critically: Keep in mind the requirements of the authorities and above all keep your confidence, because this is very important in times of crisis. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:23]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9322	Both amendments have been properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Yannick Shetty is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9350	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, And above all: Dear Seers! It has been said many times today: We are not only in a challenging situation, but we are increasingly moving towards the height of this crisis. There are really many professional groups – and this has been said more often here today at the speaker’s desk – who are making a particularly valuable contribution to the functioning of our society in this difficult time, even on their own because they go to work and work day after day. I would like to highlight today the civilians who like to be neglected away from times of crisis, but who, especially in the health field, are now making an essential contribution and helping wherever they are needed. I would like to remind you once again of the reality of civil servants' work. That's what it looks like: Regular civilians work in up to 60-hour weeks for a monthly income of 346 euros, which is an hourly wage of about 1.40 euros. You know that as Liberals, we are exploiting this exploitation in the form of a forced service. See it critically. But it is also clear to us that now is not the right time to have this principle discussion. It is certainly the right time, however, to give some appreciation and, above all, fair treatment to civil servants who are serving their country during this difficult period. I would like to remind you again: There are currently two types of civil servants, namely those who have volunteered for an extraordinary civil service and those whose regular service is at 31. It would have ended on March and would now be compulsory for another three months in addition to their nine months which they have already completed. While the voluntary extraordinary civilians are netly compensated for their loss of income at least EUR 1,500, the difference in income for those who are forced to extend is the EUR 1 000 net for exactly the same activity. Those with automatically extended civil service, who have just completed the nine months, are often also in upright service conditions or have fixed job promises or at least suffer a loss of income. So it is rather cynical when, in an interview last Sunday, the competent minister Köstinger says that there are different situations of life among civil servants and that is why they are treated differently. Yes, many perform their civil service right after the Matura, and yes, many still live at home. However, most of them live at home because they cannot afford to live in this famine wage. In addition, there are also many civil servants who do not immediately make civil service after the matura, which is already in work, perhaps have children and suffer a massive loss of income due to civil service. We want those who have a massive loss of income to be compensated at least as do the voluntary extraordinary civilians. That is why I am today presenting a motion for a resolution which is a minimum, and which we all really have to agree to here in the sense of a compromise proposal: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please vote President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Another issue is essential not only for civil servants, but also for all people in the health field, namely equipment with necessary protective equipment. Today, in the Ö1 “Morgenjournal”, it was reported that, for example, rescuers – you have to imagine this and face-to-face! – the instructions are given to change their protective equipment not more than twice a day. Now one imagines: They're going to a patient who's suspected of corona. It's actually positive. They carry out the removals there, their protective equipment is contaminated. Then they have to drive this protective equipment to the next patient, who is also a suspected case, but is actually negative, and which is infected by this contaminated protective equipment. This is negligent, and you have to put it off. That is why we are also putting forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Of course, it is also clear to us that even with the greatest use of people in the health field, we will not defeat the virus alone. I would therefore like to address another current issue, namely the handling of the Elga patient data. We are fully aware that a special time, a special situation, also requires special measures. Only recently, for example, has it been decided to define the risk groups precisely, based on the Elga medication data. The identification of the risk groups should be completed by the weekend. We consider it absolutely necessary to involve science and research in this process in addition to the Elga data mentioned above. This would enable the risk groups to be significantly narrowed. Simply said: It is counterproductive when the Ministry of Health now sends messages to mayors who belong to the risk group in their community. It is much more useful to accept the offer, for example the Charité in Berlin, to support us in identifying risk groups. I therefore propose a third motion for a resolution: Resolution by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues on ‘Inclusion of science into the definition of the corona risk groups’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Care, Health and Consumer Protection is invited to ensure the involvement of science and research in the definition of the Corona risk groups throughout the entire phase of the pandemic. The aim of this measure is to achieve a pseudonymised matching of social insurance schemes. a more precise definition of the corona risk groups is ensured with COVID19 data." Now, finally, very briefly to this shoulder closure, which has already been tried several times here: We were always standing at this shoulder closure. I will not come and come to the idea of saying that all measures presented by ÖVP and Greens are basically bad. On the contrary! As a Parliament, we had almost all these measures unanimously. On the other hand, I find it very strange that at the last meeting almost all the requests from SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS were rejected by the government parties. Among other things, the requests made by me today are important. Please carry them in the sense of an shoulder closure! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:31]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9591	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are under negotiation. Hermann Weratschnig is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9615	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The virus brings us to the limits of the federal constitution. With the measures we defend the fundamental right to protection of life. The State has a duty of protection here in order to avoid serious health risks. That is why I am concerned about the attitude of some of the liberals. Let's remember: Two and a half weeks ago it was called: too late, too little prepared, too incapable! Today I hear the exact opposite: Panic and frightful, excessive measures, totally incapable! So it seems to me that the liberals here are getting into the blue wardrobe and taking out their position depending on the day's constitution. This is not the national epaulment we imagine, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Great chapter in the...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] As a transport speaker, I would like to stress the following points on the Covid-19 package: the regulation on deadlines and restrictions on validity, road writing checks, pickerl reviews, training certificates, certificates running – all things that, I believe, are very important in everyday life. It's true that everything that follows the 13th century. It cannot be extended on March, and must continue to be valid. These are important discharges and also a command of the hour in these areas. In particular, with regard to claims for the penalty, we add to the sick person the quarantine, teleworking and short work, namely in the knowledge that there is a need for a major reform, in the knowledge that the government agreement states that there is a need to know that the club members and the two clubs agree that there is a need for a more attractive design that in the future there will need an ecological, a worker-friendly and a more socially just pendulum fee or mobility fee. The current situation shows us that it just needs incentives for teleworking, for the home office. This saves in many sectors congestion time, nerves, costs, reduces accident hazards and stress and relieves our lungs by reducing pollution because people are less on the move and less fuel is blown into the air. And especially in the present situation, in the crisis we all need healthy lungs, that's very important. Post-Corona, however, does not mean that everything goes on as before, but that we should use the opportunities here, I think. I recognise the opportunity to make regional economic cycles less dependent on essential goods of general interest. I recognise the opportunity for a strong, independent organic farming with a high degree of self-sufficiency. At this point I would like to thank all those farmers who have been very active in the last few days, especially in direct marketing. I recognize the opportunity to pay the current heroes of everyday life neatly and fairly. This appreciation, ladies and gentlemen, must definitely be given to them. I also recognize the chance that we appreciate what we can do together here. Austria should be ambassador and ambassador in the future when it comes to solidarity. Let us learn from the fact that we are working together in and with the European Union! Don't let us scatter sand into the eyes! The EU is as good as the individual national states. We know that we are required to do so in the national states and that we must continue to implement appropriate measures in the future. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to express my sincere condolences, namely all those families and their relatives and acquaintances who have spent difficult hours in the last few weeks and have lost loved ones. We should not forget here in the debate: With these necessary measures we protect and save lives! That's why it needs this joint shoulder closure. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9664	This is what Mr Muchitsch has to say. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9685	Mr President. The Federal Ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to continue where the colleague has ended: It needs a national shoulder clasp. If there is to be this national shoulder closure: Then why not include the opposition, with its proposals, with its actions, with its applications? Why are good and important opposition requests not taken into account accordingly in your actions? Why are good proposals from our party presidents and recognized Virologist Pamela Rendi-Wagner only implemented days and weeks later? Why Wait Do you have a few days and weeks to present these proposals before the camera itself? A national shoulder closure, ladies and gentlemen, looks quite different. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Many people wonder: Why Protect You are not also the workers in establishments and on construction sites which are not protected in this respect, where these Covid-19 measures are not complied with? Why does the police not come there to protect workers, where people, neighbours, call and say: Look at how it is done, there's a danger in the delay?- Oh, my God! Many people also wonder: Why do we have in Austria since the 15th century? More unemployed than the ten-fold larger Germany? There, too, the question must be asked: Why is that so? Is everything done right? – It will come at this time, ladies and gentlemen, when we will have to critically open up all these things and also question them. The longer a crisis takes, the more people in our country get worse. That is why, as the opposition party and SPÖ, we have repeatedly applied for it and will do so today; for regardless of whether someone is self-employed or self-employed, whether anyone is a small or large-scale entrepreneur, whether someone is a single-schooler, is small, part-time or full-time, whether young or old, we all need measures to support these people in their social and economic interests and solve the problems. That is why we need a bundle of measures. We are going to put forward proposals again today. Let me stress two points: First of all, it is about creating and setting up a support fund for those workers who have neither a chance of short-term work nor unemployment benefit. These are minor employees, these are artists. It also needs financial support for single-parents who, due to their care obligations, now stay at home, have to reduce their working time. It needs support for workers who are staying at home now because they have to care for and care for their family members, which is currently no longer guaranteed, and therefore we need a support fund not only for employers, not only for agriculture, not only for the EPUs, but also for workers in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I am referring to an increase in unemployment insurance benefits. 200 000 more people are in unemployment, mostly they have signed agreement agreements. In addition, 100 000 people, who normally start working again in this weather, now have to stay at home and stay in unemployment. You have not accepted all our efforts to bring these people into short-time work and to change the guidelines for short-time work, to shorten or amend this four-week period. For this reason, we request that the duration of entitlement to unemployment insurance benefits be extended by the time of the crisis. In addition, unemployment benefit, as well as emergency aid and family allowances, is to be increased in order to receive a supplement from: 30 percent, so that we can achieve and secure a net replacement rate of 70 percent, just as the ÖGB and the AK demand. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens, are the people who have now come to unemployment without debt, these people who cannot now return to the jobs are important, then you agree to our motion for a resolution! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9835	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. Luke Hammer is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9862	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the city, it is often not possible to go to the street, get out and keep a safety distance. It is often like this: The walkways are too narrow and there are also not enough spaces to go for a walk. That is why I am pleased that we are today deciding on a novelle of StVO, which makes it easier for cities and communities to release roads by regulations for cyclists and pedestrians, so that there is simply more space. [[Abg. Belakovich: Finally release the Federal Gardens! Lock up!]] We will therefore work at our coalition partner in Vienna – Kai Jan Krainer – to ensure that this regulation empowerment is also implemented that people get more space, and of course we will also work at the federal level at our coalition partner to find a solution that people can also benefit from the federal gardens. [[Ongoing calls and calls between SPÖ and Greens]] But I ask you to pay attention to one thing: It is still about the collapse of our health system -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9898	Ladies and gentlemen, may I interrupt you very briefly? You have a 2 minute remaining speaking time in the Group, and I hear It could be that Mrs Blimlinger has yet another request to make. Just for information. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9918	It is also, of course, a matter of facilitating the situation for people. However, I would ask that this should not, so to speak, be included in the Vienna election campaign. The situation is far too serious for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9945	Mr Erwin Angerer has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e9970	Mr President. High house! Dear gentlemen on the government bank! I told you last time that people should be given security through leadership and not be unsure. Unfortunately, in recent weeks, especially in the economic field, you have created a very serious uncertainty. We have given you an advance of confidence, and this advance of confidence has unfortunately been lost. One cannot therefore say that we have turned in our argument, but the advance of confidence was simply achieved by these government parties. Of course, protection of health and our society is the top priority, but one cannot simply hide the economy completely, otherwise it will no longer exist at the end of this crisis of this health system and this social system on which we are based today and which we are grateful to God, because it is simply no longer eligible for funding. That is why we need an economic strategy change, otherwise all of this will no longer be eligible for funding. It was – and this is becoming increasingly evident – a fatal error to override the epidemic law. You should never have done that. And today we have serious consequences: Unemployment, companies that had to release their employees and today fight for no replacement. The difference – in order to quote the Economic Party or the Economic Chamber Party – between the Economic Chamber System in Austria and Germany is the following: In Germany, the processing of applications takes three days, then the entrepreneur has the money on the account, but in Austria it was unfortunately three weeks. That is why this system must also be rejected. That is why we have put in place a comprehensive package of repairs for the economy, and I will make a request so that we can perhaps save the ship before it goes down. I want to draw a comparison with a chess game: You still have the opportunity to make a rochade. You're just in front of the chess mat, and you still have the tower, that's the economy. If this tower is still breaking away from you, just as the runners and farmers are already in the process of breaking away, then you will no longer be able to bring this rochade to fruition, and we will collapse the entire economic system, as it has never happened since the economic crisis in 1929. As a chess player, you always have to think ahead of a few moves, so your argumentation reminds me more of “People don’t get angry”: If a figure falls over, I'll start from the front. – This may be funny at playing, but it is not really funny for the entrepreneur concerned. That is why I am now bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Erwin Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on the 'Repair package for the economy' to deal with the A COVID-19 crisis, which I will explain only in its core points, because it is very extensive – it will also be distributed –: We demand full compensation under the Epidemie Act – the Epidemie Act – was a serious mistake, the handling of all measures through the Financial Office and not through the Chamber of Commerce, support for energy costs and insurance premiums, price guarantees for goods of daily need. We are also calling for a community investment and regional economic package, just as the Social Democrats have called for. The communities are the ones that bring out the fastest orders to the regional economy that can support the regional economy, and this will certainly be necessary if we want to get the economy up again. Of course, a major economic contribution is education, and that is why we need to make sure that our children have appropriate equipment to provide them in the form of rental equipment, as well as allowing block teaching in schools, Minister, that students under 14 years of age are left in school in small groups so that they can teach the teacher. We need the implementation of the Matura in the old form in front of the Central Matura and the placement of teaching students through educational direction to families to support and deal with the crisis. I hope you will and thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10197	The application was presented in the main guidelines, is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Klubobmann August Wöginger is now speaking. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10224	Mr President. I would like to make two further amendments: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, I would ask you to interrupt the sitting for a short standing, because we are still voting on the vote on the overall package. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[16:50]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10458	Both applications are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. I am interrupting the meeting to hold a standing presidial.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10492	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Henrike Brandstötter has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10525	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear citizens at home in front of the screens! The hardness fund for individuals and small businesses: That was a neat mess in the last few weeks. There was conflicting information, then there were improvements and new announcements and then again different announcements. Now, as it comes to it, it is already very clear: You don't have a plan! A short interim report: At the beginning you have excluded people who have two jobs in order to survive from the support, you have pulled the ground under the feet of founders, people who have just made themselves independent have not received any help, and also established and experienced entrepreneurs are wondering how you actually imagine a business life like that. Your actions show that you have no idea what makes you self-employed, what EPUs, what moves small entrepreneurs. An example of many: The criteria for determining claims in the hardness fund are entirely beyond reality. They want to compare monthly sales: March 2019 with March 2020. - It's completely out of the air. Many entrepreneurs work in projects, there's nothing going on for a long time and then there's a lot going on in the cash register. You already have to observe a longer period of time to assess whether an EPU is suffering or not. There would be a period of at least one year, and in fact it should be three years. This has to be fixed urgently before you let go of this in this hard-fall chaos in the next round on the entrepreneurs again. You can learn from the chaos you did with your hardening fund. I would also like to ask you to: Let us take the opportunity to finally create current tax conditions for EPCs! Capital companies may leave profits, individual companies cannot. They cannot even make provisions to finance larger investments or research phases, they must tax everything immediately. So they do not have the opportunity to make reserves, and therefore many of them also become hard-hit in the crisis. That doesn't have to be. Finally, please note that EPUs are fully-fledged companies, and they want to be treated like that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10565	Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10586	Mr President. It is now quite difficult to make this speech because we simply do not know whether the government parties are still introducing amendments together with the SPÖ. I'd be the last speaker now. I can just stop talking because I can't replicate what might come later, and I'd do it now. I see people coming in and obviously making applications. It is not possible for me to give my speech if I do not know what is going to happen afterwards, so I will be able to do so now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10610	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr Klubobmann. [[Abg. Martin Graf: (in the direction of ÖVP) You are lucky that you have such a lenient president sitting up!]] Mr Klubobmann Wöginger withdrew the word. Mrs. Philippa Strache has now been mentioned. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10650	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate members of the government! To be honest, it is difficult for me to find the right, reasonable and, above all, morally unfavorable and critical words – words that no one is insecure and that no one in this difficult and, above all, challenging time, does not do everything for the protection of people. Many families still feel insecure, be it for fear of their health, for fear of existence, or simply fear of afterward. Many entrepreneurs are now suddenly downgraded to bitters, and today I hear words such as appreciation or respect – I am unfortunately not aware of any appreciation and respect. People no longer know how to proceed, and there are numerous opinions in space. And yes, I know there are a lot of efforts, but the relief of the epidemic law is not understandable to many. There are also numerous individual challenges in this country that have not been met. One thing that has been repeatedly mentioned today is especially with rent. I do not know why, but there is still the light of self-requirement that can be registered, and there are numerous landlords who now rely on the costs, on the operating costs. The health of the population is above all, but it is still not sufficiently tested. Protective clothing is also a very delicate subject. Trade alone requires around four million masks a day – that was exhausted yesterday. The process of the government can, and must be, discussed in Parliament, for this we are here, for which there is an opposition and for that there is democracy. However, there is currently no real democratic decision-making process. Once again, there is no proper government proposal, no consolidated legislative framework. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. No one can express an in-depth opinion over the night on legislative mandates for ministers, without even being able to estimate the approach of the content of the regulation. Every Member and every Member of Parliament has the right to judge such changes in the law, and even if it still has to be decided so much urgency and so short-term, I expect the government to make such a thing possible, out of respect for the House. Last time I gave a advance of confidence, and it turned out that this was just a conditional one. Yes, I would like to do everything I can to protect the people of this country – but also in the face of all the accompanying events that bring this crisis. There is much hidden under the cover of urgently necessary laws, and many people in this country are still being abandoned – citizens who trust you need to have confidence in politics. And please: Let's be honest with everyone! Let us show that this enormous wave of solidarity does not stop in front of Parliament and we carry this wave also over time to Corona! I admire every single person in this country for the sovereign way in which this situation is dealt with. We all do not know the effects of Corona, populist and, above all, morally reprehensible demands are therefore also wrong, because this will impoverish a crisis that we all have to take seriously. My appreciation and respect for the citizens have, but I also have to rely on the government to ensure that their announcements following a national closure also follow actions that do not detest people. I want these people to get optimal help, and I can't say what will be the result of the next package of laws. I therefore see myself unable to exhibit this desired blank authority today. Let's still look after each other and let's still be there for each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10705	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger has now been reported to speak. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 1 minute. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10730	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Now you've already done it! Now...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That doesn't pay off at all...!]] In addition to all the affected groups, which have already been mentioned today, the media are also affected – the media as a whole, but in particular the print media, which, of course, have a massive drop in advertising revenue in many areas, their employees have to send in short work and are really at the limit, especially the quality newspapers that appear in Austria. However, commercial broadcasting is also the case, there is also a dramatic intrusion of advertising revenue there. This threatens, so to speak, a very diverse media landscape. Now you could say: Well, the non-commercial broadcasting organizations have no advertising revenue anyway. – Yes, the entire arts and culture sector is breaking away, because this is very often done in cooperation and unfortunately no art and cultural events can take place. So, in summary: We will decide on a media promotion model. It's not a supermodel, I like to admit that. In the future, we need to talk about how media promotion and press promotion should work. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] However, I believe it is really a matter of ensuring that there is a broad media presence that discourse and criticism are still possible – in the printing sector, in the commercial sector, in the non-commercial field. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10783	The speaking time, please, Mrs Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10799	To conclude: Thanks also to the ORF, which we often, even rightly, criticize! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] I'd just say, Please give up short work at ORF!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10839	Mr Klubobmann, August Wöginger, has now come to speak. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e10874	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for the super-party presidency, which I would like to stress. I would also like to thank all the political groups for accepting that the session has been interrupted for a few minutes. I put another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's where the commander said, there's already!]] [[Call the FPÖ: This is embarrassing!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The first two points were part of a SPÖ motion for a resolution yesterday, by Mr Krainer. The third point says that in times of the Corona crisis, we are ensuring that no worker of unemployment benefit comes into emergency aid. Finally, I would like to thank all the political groups for one of the most likely challenging days here in Parliament. I believe that it is overall good and right that we signal to the population that today many important measures for the people of Austria – and this is what we are about – can be launched again. – In this sense a warm thank you and all the good! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: The ORF also needs 500 planning points for short work!]] [[17:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11009	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. Next speaker: Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11039	Yeah, now it's going to be an absurd cheese that's being listed here. That, which is discussed as a national epaulment, ends with the SPÖ coming up for a simple resolution. We've all been criticised, for days, for weeks, that there's not been this national shoulder closure. A non-binding motion for a resolution is now being tabled at the last second. – I do not think that this procedure is worthy of this Parliament and I think it is cruel what is happening here. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] In principle, the laws that are to be passed here today, and throughout the crisis, we are also concerned with maintaining our fundamental rights of freedom, maintaining the rule of law, maintaining democracy. We have said that it is particularly important in the crisis that these values are maintained. We have tabled an application for the first item on the agenda on the situation in Hungary. The government parties themselves have made a request which can hardly be overcome with ridicule: ÖVP and Greens demand that, after the crisis, the emergency arrangements in Hungary be lifted. – Do you say you're still doing it? After the crisis, will emergency arrangements be lifted? That's so undemocratic, that's dangerous! I think it is absolutely embarrassing for us to ask Hungary now that, after the crisis, they should take back the somewhat serious cuts. You should be ashamed of this ridiculous request you have made here! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is about comprehensive restrictions on personal freedom to take action that gives the Federal Government a comprehensive opportunity to restrict these freedoms. The measures are necessary in some areas, which is why we took them along at the beginning. But we also see how difficult it is when these measures begin to work. We see situations like those that have come to data transmission by Telekom that one can represent motion profiles. There are announcements to use Big Data. There are announcements that you want to track citizens mandatoryly. There is a decree from the Minister of Health, which is based on a law on and on itself, which says that one can block certain places, certain places, and it is so that people are addressed by the police on the street, why they are going there at all. It is true that shopping traffickers are controlled by people who go shopping in supermarkets quite normally, that the police are looking at what is being purchased. Today, take a step further. They are now giving the police the opportunity under the Covid Act to take measures to prevent threats of administrative evasion. The explanations state that the police are allowed to take a look and go to the point that they are to carry out legal instructions. I hear again and again that this is also happening in other laws, that this is also true in commercial law. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about commercial law, it is about a fundamental personal freedom! I expect police officers on the street don't talk to me when I walk 1.5 meters from someone who doesn't live with me in the same household, and tell me: But now be careful, maybe commit You'll have a breach of administration soon! I think that the measures that are allowed here are more than worrying and extremely serious. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kaniak.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] You know very well that there is a risk of arbitrariness and even now there are situations where people approach other people and say: Ah, they're not sitting on the parking lot exactly 1 meter apart! People have been punished even though they have kept the distance. There is extensive misinformation, people don't know something and are being punished for it. It has been looked into the shopping bag, which was quite normal in the supermarket, which must at least be allowed and also allowed. People have to pay for punishment, up to 1 000 euros, for wrongdoing – for alleged wrongdoing – that they have committed. The restriction of freedom of movement is now continuing. You want – you have put this in front of the hearing in the last second – that in the future mayors may have sensitive health data, if – supposedly – it is necessary so that certain care can be done for the people. This is not permitted under the General Data Protection Regulation. This can not be allowed, and there are good reasons for that. It is also absurd that the district authority should pass on this data. The district administration authority is explicitly responsible for helping people if they fail to meet their daily needs. One could pass this data directly on to the doctors, but it is an insanity to pass it on to the mayor. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Amesbauer.]] I'll tell you what's happening now. It is precisely what we have warned of, namely that more and more comprehensive restrictions of freedom are being imposed on you to keep restricting the freedom of citizens to keep you out of your privacy. I'll tell you something. We as NEOS will simply not participate in such measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11127	Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl is now speaking. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11151	An out-of-tour speech, because you really have to be broken on the tongue, what is happening here: Today, we have criticized all day for the way in which the government parties operate, for manning things that have nothing to do with each other, in collective packages, and for making it impossible to vote differently. Now we would have had the opportunity to end this dissatisfaction at the appropriate final vote and to give the government a valuable lesson in democracy policy here as well. The SPÖ would probably have needed it for this, because the SPÖ has argued against this procedure all day long. And I don't think so! I do not believe that you can now really be bought with a cheap motion for a resolution, change your course here and turn from a rejection to an approval - for a cheap motion for a resolution which has a commitment of zero comma zero, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You have to know: No one's ever been so cheap! If there is disappointment about the process of the black and green government parliamentarians, then there is now at least an equally great disappointment about the collapse of the SPÖ in such a substantial question that affects us all. You left out a huge chance, you have to tell. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] I can only take on You appeal: Please agree to the motion for a resolution, but at the third reading you will stick to what you have actually done. Keep your attitude, my rulers from the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11197	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a great deal of preparatory work to do, to work out the Croquis, and even the clubs have to look at how to vote afterwards on the basis of this Croquis. The meeting was therefore suspended until around 7.30 p.m. [[17:31:50]] [[The sitting was suspended at 5.31 p.m. and resumed at 7.45 p.m.]] [[19:45:37]] Vote on agenda items 2 to 4
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11244	I can ask you to take the seats and resume the interrupted session. Before we come to the voting process, I would like to ask all the representatives of the media, but also the staff of the clubs and the Parliamentary Directorate at the gallery to leave the area of Members so that we can gain clarity about their voting behaviour. We agreed in the President that the Members of this House in the gallery, as well as in the plenary session, would vote by standing up or by sitting down. For the purposes of § 68 of the Rules of Procedure, I can announce that I will vote in the following votes. I will therefore announce my own voting behaviour in each vote. We shall come to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's requests. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft concerning 3. COVID-19 Act in 115 of the Supplements. [[Abg. Scherak: Agenda item 1? What about 1?]] There are three supplementary or amendments tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President, and a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Amesbauer, Mr colleagues, and an additional amendment by Mr Strasser, Mr Götze, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Kickl. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Rule 1 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote separately on Rule 2 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him to give an appropriate sign. – This is once again accepted in a multi-vocal way. We shall vote separately on Rule 3 as amended by the Committee's report. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to rise from the seats. – This is also accepted in a multi-vocal way. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 4 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever wants to give a sign of approval, I ask him to do so. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. Deputies Mag. Amesbauer, BA, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 3 into Article 5. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Rule 5. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. – I agree, too. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Strasser, Dr Götze, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 5a into Article 6. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. – I agree, too. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 10a into Article 6. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give them their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. – I agree, too. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 6 Z 2 to 5, 7 and 8 as well as 10. Who is in favour of it, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is largely rejected. – I vote against it. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. – I also agree. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 6 Z 12. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority – also with my voice. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amesbauer, tabled an amendment on Articles 7 and 8. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. – I, too, reject it. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. - I agree. We shall vote separately on Rule 9 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a positive sign. – It is, in turn, accepted by the majority. – I too agree. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 10. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. – I too reject the request. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger and Mr Maurer. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. – I too agree. We shall vote separately on Rule 11 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 12 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority. - I agree. We shall vote separately on Rule 13 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. – I too agree. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 14 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. – I too agree. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amesbauer, tabled an amendment concerning the abolition of Articles 15 to 19. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. – I, too, reject him. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Committee. 19 Z 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. – I too agree. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amesbauer, tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Articles 20 and 21. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. – I, too, reject him. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. – I too agree. We shall be voting separately on Article 22 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 23. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger and Mr Maurer on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 23 § 2 Z 4. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. – I too agree. We shall vote separately on Rule 24 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger and Mr Maurer. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. – I too agree. We shall vote separately on Rule 25 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted – also by me. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 26. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. – I, too, reject it. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 27 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him to give a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority – also accepted by me. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the recast of Article 28 and the deletion of Article 29. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected – also by me. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 30 as amended by the Committee's report. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to do so. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 31 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 32 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for that, I ask him again for a corresponding sign. – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 33 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – Again the same voting behaviour, the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 34 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is also the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 35 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for it, I ask him to give a sign. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 36 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning Articles 37 to 39. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 40 as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority – also by me. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 41. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority – also by me. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning Article 42. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. – I too agree. We shall vote separately on Rule 43 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him to give a sign of approval. – That too is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 44 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 45, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the two supplementary or amendments tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer, on the insertion of a new paragraph 1 and the resulting renumbering or amendment of the new paragraph 3. Who is for it, I ask him to give a sign. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 46, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 47 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 48 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 49. Who is in favour of it, I ask him to give an acceptable sign. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. Members of the Amesbauer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 50. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Waller, Mr President-in-Office. Who is for that, I ask him to sign the consent. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 51 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – That is also the majority, accepted – also by me. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give him the approval to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority – also by me. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Therefore, the draft law was also adopted in third reading – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on'measures to halt the social and economic consequences of the Corona crisis'. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the expiry date for Corona laws. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues, on the extension of the Hardening Fund to all enterprises. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues, on the "unity line of the Federal Government in the use of parks – immediately necessary opening of the federal gardens". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Maurer, Mr Wöginger, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, on the concept of covering the financial requirements of health insurance in connection with COVID 19. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, the request is accepted – also by me. [[15/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, Mr Jakob Schwarz, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr President, on measures to protect critical companies from taking over from third countries – investment control. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is unanimously accepted – also with my voice. (16/E) (Abg. Bures: Shoulder closure!) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the 'Worung der Grundrechten' (Wurd of Fundamental Rights). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on 'Scientific monitoring of remote and home schooling'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Künsberg Sarre, colleagues, on the involvement of a representative/representative of people with disabilities in the SKKM. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kucharovich, colleagues and others, on 'Safering municipal finances in the crisis'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues on 'compensation for the proven loss of income of extended civilian servants in line with that of voluntary civil servants'. [[Abg. Bures: Shoulder closure!]] Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Shetty, ladies and gentlemen, on the speedy provision of corona protective clothing in the health and care sector. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous, accepted – also by me. [[18/E]] We shall vote on Mrs Shetty's motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Inclusion of science in the definition of the Corona risk groups'. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the increase in benefits from unemployment insurance. [[Abg. Bures: Shoulder closure!]] Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – The request is rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on the ‘Economic Repair Package’ to deal with the COVID-19 crisis. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer, on 'additional measures to address the social and economic consequences of the Corona crisis'. Who is for this, I ask him to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. [[19/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft concerning 4. COVID-19 Act in 116 of the Supplements. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment, as well as a motion for an amendment by Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen. There is also a desire for separate vote. Therefore, first of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains amendments to the Federal Constitutional Act or Constitutional Provisions, I first make amendments within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. - We counted that in advance: She's given. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment which has an amendment to the title. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an important sign. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We come to Article 2 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – Also accepted by a majority. On Articles 3 and 4, we have an amendment tabled by Members Kickl, colleagues and others. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected – by me, too. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of giving a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 5. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. . I can expressly say that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes is necessary, which I can see with it. The application is accepted by a majority, with the explicit determination of the two-thirds majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 6 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is most of the case – I also agree. Members Kickl and colleagues have tabled an amendment relating to Article 7 and the deletion of Article 8. Who is for this, I am seeking a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – by me, too. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report and on Article 8, taking account of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall be voting separately on Article 9 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 10 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment on Articles 11 and 12 and the deletion of Articles 13 and 14. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 15 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 16 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I also ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. Article 17 – the same procedure – as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The consent is given, mostly accepted. Article 18 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall also vote separately on Rule 19 in the Committee's report. Who's for it? – adopted by a majority. We shall vote separately on Rule 20 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. Separate vote on Rule 21 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. Separate vote on Rule 22 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 23 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. Members Kickl and colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 2 in Article 24. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall be voting separately on Rule 25 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 26 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote separately on Rule 27 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That too is the majority, accepted – also by me. Members Kickl and colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Article 28. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Article 29 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes are given. We shall be voting separately on Article 30 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. I also note the constitutionally necessary two-thirds majority. We shall be voting separately on Rule 31 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 32 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 33 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 34 as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. We shall vote separately on Rule 35 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – Equal voting behaviour, adopted by a majority. Separate vote on Rule 36 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – Also the majority, accepted – also by me. Members Kickl and colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning § 1 in Article 37. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Wöginger, Maurer, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning § 2 and § 9 in Article 37. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority, accepted – also by me. Members Kickl and colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of § 6 in Article 38. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. I clearly note that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes are given. – I also agree. We shall vote separately on Article 39 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on and received as part of the Committee's report. I may ask the ladies and gentlemen to signal approval to ask for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this at the third reading to give a positive signal. – In turn, I note the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. I too agree. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft concerning 5. COVID-19 Act including title and entry into 117 of the Supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him to do so with a sign of honor. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his approval in the third reading, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is also accepted by the majority in third reading – I too agree. [[20:20:44]] Vote on agenda item 1 Independent motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11509	We shall now come to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled during the debate on item 1 of the agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues on ‘Restriction of democracy in Hungary’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected – also by me. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'rapid restoration of the full rights of the Hungarian Parliament'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That too is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reinhold Lopatka, Mr Michel Reimon, colleagues on the current situation in Hungary. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their assent to this motion for a resolution to do so with a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority – also with my consent. [[14/E]] The agenda is exhausted. [[20:21:46]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11578	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 4, so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. Agenda item 1: ‘Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Cancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Current developments on the Corona virus SARS-COV-2/COVID-19’’ ‘The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/3 EA shall be adopted [...].’ Agenda item 2: ‘The amendment Annex 2/13 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, is adopted in 115 of the Supplements, taking into account amendments to Supplement 2/7, Supplement 2/8, Supplement 2/19 and Supplement 2/20 in separate vote [...] and in third reading [...]. [...] The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/5 EA, was adopted [...]. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/6 EA, was adopted [...]. [...] The motion for a resolution Supplement 2/10 EA is adopted [...]. [...] The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/15 EA, was adopted [...]. [...] The motion for a resolution Supplement 2/21 EA is hereby adopted.’ Agenda item 3: ‘The amendment Annex 3/2 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, will be published in 116 of the Supplements. Attendance of the constitutional number of Members – taking into account the amendment Annex 3/1 to be adopted in separate vote in second reading [...] and in third reading [...] with the required two-thirds majority.” Agenda item 4: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 117 of the second and third reading supplements.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[20:23:51]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-04-03-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00022_d8e11664	I am allowed to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 409/A to 420/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.25 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
