ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4206	I'm allowed 34. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. Deputies Kira Grünbergand Mag are reported as prevented. Christian Ragger. This meeting will also take place in each case at the end of the negotiations on all the proposals of a committee. In addition, the session may be interrupted briefly before the vote. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4242	The Federal Chancellery received the following letter: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 20. May 2020 [...] Ms Mag. Ulrike LUNACEK has denied her wish by the Office as Secretary of State. At the same time, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has Mrs Mag. Andrea MAYER appointed the State Secretary to support the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport.” I should like to thank Mrs Ulrike Lunacek, who is now out of service, very much for her work and for her service to the Republic. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European ……]] Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4278	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4354	The debate on points 3 and 4, 8 to 10, 11 to 14, 15 to 21, 22 to 25, 27 to 30 and 32 to 36 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4375	It was agreed between the members of the Presidential Conference to respect the duration of the debates on a corresponding day block period of 8 “Vienna hours”. The following speaking times result from this: ÖVP 156, SPÖ 108, FPÖ 88, Green 80 and NEOS 64 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 32 minutes each, the speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on speaking time. Whoever is in favour of the proposal of speaking time, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:00:00]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the topic “Presentation of the newly praised State Secretary, Mrs Mag. Andrea Mayer, Federal Ministry of Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4424	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request put forward here. I can now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4455	Mr President. [[Abg. Belakovich: Wipe the suit smoothly, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Judge her, make her beautiful!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! [[The speaker removes the hair behind the ears and closes the button of his saccos.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Thank you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Austria is a cultural nation, we know, for this we are valued in our own country, but also in all the world. The culture is part of our Austrian identity, our soul, and it is also a crucial economic factor, whether the high culture or the many people who are culturally active in local communities. Culture is also an essential part of our social life, of our social cohesion, of being together in our country. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Hammerschmid.]] Culture is an area where countless people are volunteering, making our country more beautiful, colorful, cheerful. But culture is also an area in which there are many people who have to live on it and who have been particularly hard hit by the Corona crisis. They are artists in particular, they are cultural artists who are not only disabled in the Corona crisis to follow their passion, but also to fall around their daily income. It is therefore the declared aim of the Federal Government to help and support these people, but also all the other professional groups concerned, in the best possible way. At this point, I would like to thank you very much for Andrea Mayer's willingness to take on the role of the Secretary of State for Culture in a time that is not easy. It is a time when artists especially suffer, but also cultural life in Austria can only take place in a very limited form. Andrea Mayer is one who knows the cultural area, is connected there and knows the concerns of the artists. It is also due to its work with Federal President Alexander. Van der Bellen, one who knows the political area in Austria as hardly anyone else and is therefore outstandingly suitable for the work as State Secretary for Culture. Dear Andrea, I am very pleased now to welcome you officially to Parliament on the team. Thank you for following the invitation and becoming a new member of our government team. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European ……]] I do not want to hide that with every new beginning, with every new occupation of a function, of course, a bitter side-effect often comes along, because it is necessary to say goodbye to someone who has a function. I would therefore like to thank Ulrike Lunacek for her work in the Federal Government. [[Abg. Kickl: This is really a bitter side-taste now!]] It was not a simple time for the cultural landscape in Austria, but it was certainly not a simple time for them personally. I know she didn't make the decision easy. I think it is appropriate today not only to look back on some press conference or the difficult last few weeks, but also to look at all of their political activities. I would like to say, even if I am a representative of another party: Thank you for the work she has done internationally for Austria, thanks for the work she has done in the European Parliament! I have always experienced her as an interesting and highly educated interlocutor, who has always been an enrichment for Austrian and European politics. In this sense, a great thank you for her work, not only in time as a Secretary of State, but also in general in all her numerous political functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4557	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4578	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I turn it around and I want to start with the thanks to Ulrike Lunacek. [[Abg. It's crazy!]] It was certainly a difficult time now, it has succeeded a lot, not all for a long time. We have, of course, taken the decision together – we are now, of course, the government's wife and team of the Greens and my person. It was a common and harmonious procedure. Ulrike Lunacek has many, many strengths which she could no longer apply in this difficult situation in the form, and therefore also this joint decision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] It's going to be They don't wonder when I realize that Ulrike Lunacek and I have experienced a lot of common up and down, but you always have to see the overall performance of the political person and, I think, appreciate it – and there was a great deal in it, in Austria, but of course also internationally at the European level, when we think only of her well-regarded and well-estimated commitment in and around Kosovo. Some of you know that very well, and those who didn't know it so well, I have called it to mind now. But now to Andrea Mayer: In a very short time, as I have sought and announced, we have found a successor, which is now ideal for this situation and in fact, I think. I would like to thank her once for the intensive and deep discussions we had, and I would also like to thank her for the willingness to take this risk. Where does that come from? – Because Andrea Mayer is involved in the field of culture with heart blood, there is also a network, not only in Austria, but also internationally. This is an additional asset and important in the meaning of art and culture in this country. Starting Asset: Andrea Mayer, through several developments in her biography, has the best management capabilities, which it now needs in this situation for this challenge. She is standing and crisis-resistant, so she has been tried all around, as we know, not least by her work as – if you want to do so as you say in Austria – chief official at the Federal President. In principle, as a decision-making criterion, I see their competence and commitment in the arts and culture sector. I think she'll say something to herself, longer than we do. Your understanding can be seen already. Due to the fact that a few days have passed now until Andrea Mayer can present himself here, a lot has already been done on stage. I am really just saying the words, for example, concerning the so-called lock-up plans, which concern driving up, opening up in art and culture, and thus also in the event area. The security – thanks to the ÖVP side – in the field of film industry can only be underestimated in Austria. There we can go back to production by taking risks with a certain construction. There has also been a lot of success very quickly. As you probably heard yesterday, the long-awaited aid fund, support fund for the freelance artists, is now coming for those who meet it individually – as the Federal Chancellor has done – especially during this time. Now you can say: All right, everybody asked, that was clear, et cetera. – Well, I mean, you have to bring this together once – thank you very much for that. We now have the situation that we can already congratulate and thank the person being presented here for the preliminary successes. Approved freelances: The art and culture scene in Austria is so diverse that we have to look at all, and this goes, of course, from the individual artists to the very large houses, which in the last episode are in federal possession, that is, with us. There is much in between, perhaps at the next item on the agenda we will have an opportunity to talk about it. I'm just concerned to say, All this together is a very, very great treasure for our country. In this situation, of course, he is also threatened because, if one wants to do so, from an economic point of view, capital is a bit smelting away, but it is a great treasure to protect, and that means in the sense of promoting those concerned, and that is our intention: the people who are creatively active there, and also the institutions that are so valuable to our country. We often talk about the cultural heritage in Austria – yes, you can look back on something with pride. We are now no longer making cultural philosophical excursions, anyway I am not, but as much as we should say – the current, the critical scene; Art and culture always have something to do with resistance in time –: The creative commitment and activity of today is the cultural heritage of tomorrow. This is the concern of this Federal Government to continue to enable it and to open it up in this sense and to keep our country open in all spiritual dimensions. I was also very pleased about what we could agree on in the government programme – now we had a little corona stop, but we hope that we will overcome this and that it will go up again. I think with Andrea Mayer's choice, we've made the right choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4634	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. We are now going into the debate. Mrs. Sigrid Maurer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4662	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers in front of the screens! Dear Andrea Mayer! The last months were a very big challenge for all people in Austria, especially for the artists, for the organizers, for the freelances. They were also a major challenge for politics and for the competent State Secretary Ulrike Lunacek, in which I would like to thank her once again for her commitment over many, many years for green politics, to European policy in Austria. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Now that we can start to bring our lives, our work and our leisure time slowly, but still some normality, we can also change the very difficult situation in the arts and culture sector again. There is a fresh wind, and there are first successes. I am very pleased that we have succeeded in winning Andrea Mayer for this extremely challenging task, and would like to express a warm welcome from our club here in the House! We look forward to an excellent cooperation. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The fact that we could win the best candidate is being described right up to land in every newspaper. It has many years of experience, has already begun in 1993 under Rudolf Scholten. She is an expert in administration, in the implementation of politics, and this is a very important point that someone is well aware of the implementation of the laws that we decide here. She is an absolute expert and – starting with Rudolf Scholten about many, many different stations – has shown that she is extremely committed and excellent in implementation. She was deeply involved in the reform that made art universities into universities, which also had a very large impact on the scientific and cultural sectors. She was head of the art and culture section from 2007 onwards and was in numerous club boards, supervisory councils and other bodies, such as in the curatorium of the Salzburg Festival or in the board of trustees of the Belvedere. This list shows what extensive expertise Andrea Mayer has and what recognition she enjoys, and I am sure that she can bring this experience well into this new function. 2017 she is under Sascha Van der Bellen has been appointed as the first woman to become the highest official of the Republic and has also made an excellent network in this function. It is well-connected in the art and culture scene, but also in the Austrian administration as a whole. She has always shown that she covers all sectors: from the club scene to the monument protection, from film and dance performance to the Bundestheater to the museums. Andrea Mayer has also always been committed to women and equal treatment in the arts and culture industry and is extremely well-connected internationally. She has been very familiar with the actors of the scene for many years, which has been very good at reading the reports in the Austrian newspapers of the last few days – weeks it has not yet been –. The broad praise that we hear here – from representatives of interests, from institutional representatives – is this trust and the advance-lord berries, I think, a very, very good sign that we are now moving forward in this very difficult area. There have already been the first successes in her first days, and she has shown impressively how fast she is implementing and how committed she is to doing so. There has since been a easing regulation for the arts and culture sector, which is well applicable, which is well accepted by the artists and above all by the organizers. There is a bridge fund for freelance artists of 90 million euros as well as a security of the film industry by means of defaults – I would say that for the first days, this is a balance sheet that can really be seen very much. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] The government programme includes numerous very ambitious projects in the arts and culture sector, and I am very confident, Andrea, that we can successfully implement them with your support and through your work! [[Call at the FPÖ: Didn't have any greens?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Andrea! I look forward to excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4715	Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4737	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Mrs. State Secretary! Art and culture – a really abrupt change of topics compared to the last hours and especially days; but perhaps not, because the question is: Why do we actually stand here today in the presentation of a new Secretary of Art and Culture? . We stand here because after not even six months the first government reform was needed, and that is not pleasing, I would say once. We also stand here because the last Secretary of State for Culture Ulrike Lunacek – and thanks to her on this occasion too – had to assume responsibility for the fact that the Federal Government had apparently forgotten an entire area of our society! The institutions in the field of art and culture – the theatre, the cabarets, the cinemas, the lecture halls – were the first to close within the scope of the Shutdown, and they are the last ones to start working again now, very hesitant and slow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] The cultural artists and all the people behind the artists – these are the porters, these are the card sellers, these are the wardrobes and wardrobes – have now been ignored for weeks. It was a long-term standstill in this area – if you want to go further: a planlessness – and the result is thousands of threatened existences among the artists. The promised help in this area is too little, they arrive too late, they are in many cases also unsuitable for everyday life and the realities of many artists, they are too bureaucratic or they do not arrive at all. If you look at Luxembourg, Germany or Switzerland, you can see that the world of artists there during Corona looks different, for example, there are 100 percent compensation payments for cultural artists, institutions and artists for the duration of the shutdown in the cultural field. What we are discussing about art and culture here is something I know about, because we know it from a lot of areas that we have had to discuss here in the house in the last few weeks – and this week too. It is a turquoise-green thread, through the structure of corona crisis management, through the management of the social and economic consequences of the crisis: It seems that there is a lack of competence, especially in economic and social matters; there is apparently a lack of zeros in the budget, as we know last night, there is no concrete plan as to how Austria comes out of this severe social and economic crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, and in this situation and at this difficult time, the new Secretary of Art and Culture starts. It is not easy and, dear Andrea Mayer, I know you and you as a highly competent expert in cultural policy, the artists appreciate you. I appreciate your commitment in recent years – and it is decades, as we have heard today – to your experience in this area. Yes, Andrea Mayer is a good choice, she is a very good choice, but all her ability, all her experience, all this expertise will not be enough if she does not get the necessary support if she does not get the necessary hold on by the Federal Chancellor, the responsible minister of art and culture, yes, and also by the Minister of Finance – there is my hope that this will change, not very big –. Their ability will not be sufficient to change the situation of artists. – Yes, something has happened in the last few days. It's good that pressure was reacted. Finally, Mrs. State Secretary: I am very happy personally. I guess you're on the verge: Never forget to count the zeros when you go to negotiations! I wish you a lot of strength personally, a lot of endurance, a lot of success. I wish you so because it is about our cultural nation Austria, which we are all proud of. This is part of our identity – that has been said – but art and culture are much more than entertainment, are never reductible to entertainment, art and culture are the vital point of contrast – and I choose a musical means of style very consciously – of our society. We need art and culture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4797	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e4818	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Kogler, I would like to deal with you in particular today, simply because I believe you are in a situation where you have to regret a little, and I will also explain why. First of all, because today we have been presented to the public for a number of times, what I would like to call the ÖVP project of the supervised government: Your supervisor has just left the room, but it is not something other than supervised administration, if you are the Vice-President, and that is what you are now allowed to do in the presentation of a State Secretary – and this is not now a mega-history or an epochal event – that belongs to your house, not even acting alone, but that you are being put up there as a second speaker after the Chancellor. So that's what I call managed governance, which is a sort of coalitional administration that has passed through this coalition from the beginning to the present day! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] And now, Mr Kogler, I don't know if this has occurred to you, but I'd become a little thoughtful in your place: Her wishful candidate as Secretary of State is gone, your wishful candidate in the cabinet is gone. What do you think who will be the next one if he doesn't get in the way of slowness, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? So I'd be a little thoughtful in your place. I think it will be evening on the Puszta as far as you are concerned. Secondly, you have to regret the tragedy that you, together with the ex-Secretary Lunacek, have previously performed in the arts and culture sector in your government – and we say so so – half-spoiled and half-disciplined ex-state secretary Lunacek. My goodness, Mr Vice-Chancellor, what a great thing that would have been, green art and cultural policy, a whole ostrich of many, many colorful ingredients! What's in there? The courting of the left art scene: The others will, of course, be ignored. It is a matter of course that you always have a strong antifascist to act and to subsidize and support the self-proclaimed left elites in the arts and culture, in good good human style. – That would have been such an ingredient. There would have been a lot of expression, incredibly much modernity and progress – or what you think about it. An incredible amount of plurality, almost something like a pluralistic plurality, would have broken into this country – under normal circumstances –, a proper shot of Ethno – that has also been used in the art and culture scene –, multicultural everywhere, of course, a transceiver and surrounded in many areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] These would have been all great ingredients of your cultural policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's how it would have been, yeah! And while the one in the Kleines Walsertal has traditionally been enslaved, you would have hanged your rainbow flags everywhere, at every cultural event. Now you wear it partly shaped face. Vernissagen would have been there, readings, awards, award awards, a bit of opera ball, so that one might also belong to it, but I think the highlight of the cultural year would have been: an electric truck with the wife Lunacek at the ring at the rainbow parade. This would have been the highlight of the cultural business from the point of view of the Greens. – It would have been so beautiful, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would have been so beautiful, and in return, of course, you could have expected gratitude – I think it would have gone up to the shoreless – on the part of your left-wing protectors from this area, and of course they would have revanced themselves with a corresponding political activism against all those who did not fit into your concept. That's how it was thought! That was the Master Plan, and that was the basic concept of this State Secretariat – a strange crossroads of care posts for a former party keeper just with the need to act in this target group very specifically. Yeah, but who knew that this virus would come? No one could really know that, and that's what you've done through this bill. But you, Mr Kogler, cannot be blamed at all at all, and you have been consistently involved in this. I would like to say that they have done just about principle, because we all know that there is a left-wing doctrine in art, and it is about that that art should ideally have little or no better to do with ability at all. Yes, and if that's true, damn it, why shouldn't this apply to the Secretary of State? That is the way Mrs Lunacek has been chosen. That's just logical. You've remained true to principles. And if you don't believe it, ladies and gentlemen, at this point I call Mr. Resetarits to the stand of witness, who has so beautifully put it to the point, who said: Because it's still meaty! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] – That was his summary of your staffing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, but now this world openness project has gone into pants to the full, and I think it would have been a huge chance for you to send a really reasonable and positive signal now, a positive sign given the 1.9 million people in Austria who are affected by unemployment or short-time work In the face of the pleite wave that is going to fall over this country is a real symbol of saving, and it would have been so easy: You just had to tighten the belt in your government team. You should have just given up on this State Secretariat and studied this work yourself, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This would not require too much that you replace your own short-term work programme in the Vice-Chancellor's Office with a full-time job. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Would you have made the culture the chief thing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would have been a reasonable approach once. And because I know that this would of course have brought a certain imbalance in this coalitionary structure: The ÖVP would have been able to look after the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, whose name nobody knows and which has so far only been noticed in one context, namely, how to say, almost as a fanboy in this caravan, in this procession of the chancellor through the Little Walser Valley – there he has noticed – can also save with it. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Ottenschlager and Mr Haubner.]] And I'll tell you: This would have been a structural saving that would be a bit reasonable and a thousand times more efficient than your strange donation show, which you subtracted a few weeks ago. But you didn't come to this idea. They do something quite different, but this is also an interesting access: So far, how are you supposed to say that this coalition has had a firm two-way relationship, right? The black cast and the green sigi were almost symbolic of this twofold relationship of the coalition. This two-way relationship is now open to you and open to you. This is an open partnership, and you make it an open partnership by taking a socialist into the government. The new Secretary of State is, of course, a socialist who is as red as the bright red bus we all know, ladies and gentlemen, no one has said that. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] We experience something very, very interesting today, we experience on the open stage what has been happening behind the scenes of the green members of the government for a long time in the form of secretaries and leading officials. There is already something similar to a red takeover of power. Thus, we are now also experiencing the accession of social democracy to the Coalition Kurz & Kogler on an open stage. This is the result of this new occupation in the State Secretariat. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] Well, I'm just saying this because you're always pretending you didn't want anything to do with social democracy at all. That is, as it were, your very first principle of faith: Please don't touch social democracy. Then nod it off that, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic expressed it, today you have a surprisingly long telephone call outside the door, in this so important art and culture area, you have the SPÖ come to the train. [[Cheerfulness with the FPÖ and with representatives of the SPÖ]] Anyway, this shows that you don't always have to take everything the way you say it. Nevertheless, I would like the Secretary of State to wish all the best for her work, especially because I am concerned with the artists, namely the artists and cultural creators in the broad majority. Of course, the culture of the people is just as much a matter of fact, about which you are bulging your nose – I look at it to you – not only this left bubble, which is always equated with the art and culture scene by many, even in the green group. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Not only the artists themselves need real support – that is important – but also with them all those involved in the organization and operation of this whole system. Before I forget. I'm very sorry, Mrs. Blimlinger. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what happened? Now it is politically disdained for the second time, for the second time! For the first time, Mr Kogler, because she had to make room for the care posts of a failed party leader, it was still somewhere to be seen, but that you do not now resort to your own personnel resources that have landed on your National Council list, because they have been the expression of the art and cultural competence of the Greens, which is quite surprising, I would like to say, and also say a few words about your credibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] So I'm sorry, Mrs Blimlinger, I just wanted to express this to you. I want to get rid of something else because, as I think, it's important: They will already have heard out – hard to recognize – that I am not a special friend of the ex-Secretary of State Lunacek. This has less to do with this art and cultural intermezzo than with her far-reaching ideas in European policy, where she could not be European enough. I really have that in a shaky memory. I do not know why one can be created here as an Austrian Chancellor and that Europe's policy can be praised afterwards. That alone is an affront for every native Austrian. I'm not a big friend of hers and I say, Of course, the criticism of her area, for all the insanity she is responsible for, by making a damage far greater than it would have been necessary, has been appropriate. However, it has never done this in a single way, but always in a co-production, in a beautiful union with other members of the government, because each one of its measures or non-measures needs unanimity in the Council of Ministers, and you were all there, and you cannot stand out from this responsibility. However, with the same right to criticise Mrs Lunacek, or perhaps even with much more right, one can apply this criticism to any of the other members of the government. Indeed, much more is the criticism of the Chancellor, who is still on the phone – that is something completely new, but not inside here, anyway outside –, for his fright-making, of which we have already heard – the 100 000 dead – for his sulphur of money, for streams of financial flows that have made their way to the needy in Austria, where even a drop has not yet arrived. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich]] It's all a lot, much worse than what Mrs Lunacek has to answer! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] Or: Criticism of the Minister of Finance for his fake budget, in which you find many things, is not a single approach, as we are fighting unemployment in this country and how we are revitalizing our economy. This is not a minor offense, as one can accuse Mrs Lunacek, which is a mortal sin, I would say, for a finance minister in this situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: Criticism of the Minister of Health, who is already overdoing himself with his own law machinations. No one knows what else you can do. There you need such a side-pack text when you move in public and maybe some local [[with hands showing about half a meter]] Or some space, because you don't know what to do anymore. By the way, he is on the foot of war with the Austrian legal order. – That’s all much, much worse! Or: The Minister of Education, who treats the parents and the students with his strange procedure at the opening of the school and maintaining a masculine obligation, which can really only be described as absurd in this area. It's pure shock and nothing else. – This is at least as bad as it is, if not worse. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: The Minister of the Interior – because he is sitting back today – who likes to let every infected person understand the crime police, but at the same time puts any intrusive asylum seekers in a train without any quarantine and is fed across Austria – then everything is wreaked. That is the contribution of the Minister of the Interior to Austrian public health. All of this is much worse than what Mrs. Lunacek said, but Mrs. Lunacek had to go. She was the famous peasant sacrifice. Then you have to put someone out of the door so that the behavioral conspicuousness of the others can be turned under the carpet – a sacrifice of the peasants! In conclusion, however, I say to you one, ladies and gentlemen: At some point the point is also reached when the farmers are sacrificed, then the rulers come along. – I am here to tell you: Every hour we move closer to this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5106	Mrs Ernst-Dziedzic spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5132	The fact that the FPÖ has a problem with the all too visible visibility of women, we know for a long time now, but the word “Herumtransen”, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, is not only in line with the dignity of the house, but already says a lot about what your world view looks like. They know that people around the world are persecuted for their sexual orientation and identity, threatened with death, in Iran they are hanged. [[Abg. Deimek: This is not a Rules of Procedure!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] In Europe, in Hungary, in Poland, people are being beaten for wearing rainbow masks, and you stand out here and say words that really support this discrimination. I very much ask you to take this back, and I ask you, Mr President, to consider whether such a statement really corresponds to the dignity of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5180	Member of the Wöginger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5206	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mrs. Andrea Mayer, Secretary of State, in particular! Mr. Kickl, now I know why you were sick on the first two session days, because in these conspiracy theories you presented in 10 or 15 minutes, many people would get sick if they thought so; but it's nice that you're back among us. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Deimek.]] The use of the house is also always required: Of course, under the dignity of the House, every Member of this House can say what he or she thinks is right, but there is already a kind of use in this House, that, when a new member of the government is introduced here by the Federal Government – and all the members of the government in the order of Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors, no matter which group they belonged to – one respectfully opposes it and that a member of the government who has been newly appointed gives a chance to prove himself. . We do this, Mrs State Secretary, we welcome you very warmly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Kassinger.]] We also do not want to thank the exodus State Secretary. The FPÖ is always calling for democratic policies to be respected. Ulrike Lunacek has been in many chambers for over two decades – here in the National Council, in the European Parliament – and finally she was represented in the Federal Government. If one takes seriously the democratic decisions of the electorate seriously, it is no shame to say thank you, even if one considers otherwise. I was also not a personal friend of Ulrike Lunacek, but I thank her for working in the legislative bodies as a representative for Austria. [[Abg. Kickl:... neither!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] There may be differences of opinion in a democracy. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, now,...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I thank her for her activities over two decades in the different chambers and at the respective levels! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That maybe that doesn't fit you into the stuff, because you'd rather just have the right side and then criticize the left side – I'll tell you one thing: [[towards FPÖ]] Especially in times like this, we need the power of the middle and the cohesion in society and non-left-right discussions, which do not bring this country any further, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] To the new Secretary of State: Last year, in the coalition-free period after Ibiza, we were allowed to get to know some of the club and party members in which the President of the Federal Republic has invited the club and party members. One thing has to be stressed – the round of the five factions here in the house is not quite complete –: There is no criticism as to qualification. From our point of view, Andrea Mayer is highly qualified for this activity as an art and cultural state secretary, since she was also former head of the Art and Culture Section in the Federal Chancellor's Office and has various expertise in this field. She has also deepened her expertise through supervisory activities at the Austrian Galerie Belvedere, Bregenzer and the Salzburg Festival as well as at the Vienna Konzerthaus. Finally, she was, as it were, the chief official of the Republic with the Federal President. I thank you very much for the phase last year, I think we have always mastered this very well in terms of club cooperation – I also wish for her coming time as Secretary of State. I look forward to this very, very positive! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[State Secretary Mayer nodds.]] I would like to say one more thing – because this office of the Secretary of State is being taken up in a very challenging time, namely in times of Corona, in which art and culture in particular has to face a special challenge: Austria is a cultural country. This goes from folk culture to high culture, and I would also like to stress: Everything in this area is important! I'm not saying one is good and the other is bad. We are, of course, at home at home, with us dominating Blasmusikverband and local cultural associations, but we are also on film and television and to our theaters, to our museums, to our operas. Austria is world-famous for what we offer in this field, which should also make us proud! I am also very glad that these packages have now also been launched. Yesterday, one was introduced, namely the Künstler-Brückungsfond with 90 million euros. We have increased the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds by EUR 5 million, and the Härtefallfonds are also available for the artists, a support for the suspension of loss of revenue in this area. There is this NPO support fund with 700 million euros, which includes cultural associations up to sports, fire brigades and churches. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Let the State Secretary have something about it...!]] So important measures have been launched and already in implementation, i.e. the craftsmanship, I believe, has already been shown. In June, most of these measures will be discussed here in Parliament. It is very important, I believe, that easing measures in the field of culture are launched today. Whoever is in close association with his bubble music associations and choirs knows that one has eagerly waited for samples to be allowed again, so that one can follow his passion and his hobby again, and that is the case from today; one may also come together for some time. I am very glad that we can carry out these easings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] – Well, you have to say one thing: This is not so funny and goes back there; Kickl, you have - - – you have all, even Kickl, on 13th. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Schellhorn: Well, because it's so different!]] Do not pretend that you would not have been in favour of facing this health crisis with all vehemence! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] Then make yourself here and criticize everything to death! You all said: We have to lock up, it's clear, whatever has been done at the end. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now we are opening up gradually in this area, and that is good and right. [[Abg. Belakovich:... open immediately!]] But in Upper Austria we had a case with a choir band. You've seen how this spread. You have to know that this is, of course, a particular source of danger – if you can say so – in this area, but the numbers allow it, and we have always said that if the numbers allow it, then it will be opened again. I'm glad these easing measures are here. Mrs. State Secretary, good luck! I'm asking for good cooperation, but I assume we're going to have it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5392	Mr Schellhorn has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5413	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ministers on the government bank! Mrs. State Secretary, welcome! I am particularly pleased that you are here, because this clearly confirmed what Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor – above all – have said, namely that you are extremely well-connected, that you have knowledge that you are competent and simply familiar with the art and culture scene. I have to ask myself the question: Why not? Why didn't that work? Why did you first leave Ms. Lunacek – I don't want to say, heated – in the dark? [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, you can say that already!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Now everything just goes really fast, and that's good. However, we are twelve in the week, and I do not know how it would have happened, what would have happened would have been this cultural scene, if the free-creats had not been so committed and had not been mobilized. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] Thank God, however, there is civil courage – unfortunately, what you don't always have with the entrepreneurs, because they fear that they won't get any promotions, you have to say somehow. I admire the art and culture scene for her doing this, otherwise you won't be sitting here today! The unfortunate one is obvious – that is really embarrassing! – that Mrs Lunacek has actually been abandoned, because the one who has the budgetary responsibility, the one who should finally decide on it, is Mr. Vice-Chancellor, because it falls into his place of business. That it is fast now is the special responsibility that Eva Blimlinger, that we in the Committee on Culture, are getting something on the way to helping the free-lance, the art and cultural creators. It is, as has been said, also a responsibility. I always say that the economy is the heart and the pump that keeps the blood in the blood in the blood circulation in the shot and has to revive it, so to speak, art and culture are then the lungs, the air we need to breathe. It is true what the Federal Chancellor says, and I am glad that he has made this confession: We are a cultural nation! This is also true because there are mountains and lakes everywhere, but what we have created, and what has been created in this country for centuries, is unique, and that is now also the responsibility of the Secretary of State. In fact, the Federation must have an external responsibility, including culturally, in the following respects: Austria wants to be a cultural nation and – that is particularly important – a country of art, and this is recognized by how much art is created in a country, and not by how many people can buy art. That a lot of art is created in the country will be your responsibility, that you can do that. [[towards State Secretary Mayer]] That's why I wish you all the best! We will also look closely at it. We will give our support if you need our support. But we will also look closely at the fact that you are not being abandoned like Mrs Lunacek. But that will not happen, I think, because you have been scattered roses: about your networking, about your competence, about your expertise. The question arises: Why did it have to take so long? – This is a question of government, which is a question of the Greens, and that is also a question of the responsibility of those who have let Mrs Lunacek down for so long and abandoned. It seems to have been a good point from the new Secretary of State that her condition will have been that she can quickly implement these points for the benefit of the artists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5466	The Secretary of State has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5487	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Dear government team – thank you also for the back cover today for my performance here in the National Council! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] It's a historic moment in my life. Thank you very much also for the support you have given me in the first speeches, which I was able to learn during the talks on the verge of the meetings. [[In the case of Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ, Members of the NEOS and the Agg. Martin Graf.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, not only is art and culture personally important to me, but it has been a central part of my career for many years. In various functions I have been able to acquire extensive knowledge of the Austrian art and cultural landscape in all its facets, from the high culture to the free scene. This expertise and knowledge of the needs and challenges of art and culture and the people in it I will use with full force – in the sense of the cultural nation, as we are internationally known. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Austria is a country of artists. It is a fertile place for countless small and large, often world-famous cultural institutions and cultural initiatives. We are rightly proud of the wide range of cultural offerings and artistic forms of expression: from contemporary art to customs, from digital art to the large federal museums, from music schools to dance festivals, from pop to opera, from fashion to architecture and design. Art and culture are a central and indispensable part of our lives, they contribute significantly to our self-understanding. Art and culture take on important functions in a globalised and digitalised world. Creativity stimulates innovation and promotes the international competitiveness of Austria. To design and improve the framework conditions for art and culture in Austria – that is why I stand in front of you today as the State Secretary for Art and Culture. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] The current cultural agenda is determined by a global health crisis. The consequences of this crisis for all of us are not yet fully We learn to do so every day, and of course they also depend on their further course. The current crisis, however, shows us clearly how vulnerable art and culture are when suddenly the foundations for their exercise are lost due to a pandemic. This presents all of us with unexpected challenges. Our cultural diversity must now be preserved, and those who enable them, namely artists, must support it. The Federal Government, but also the countries and communities have already provided a wide range of support measures in the last few weeks, and I am very pleased that in these first days in my office we have already succeeded in putting on our feet a tailor-made bridge financing for self-employed artists of 90 million euros. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] The legal basis for this is in parliamentary consultation. We have also developed a package for the film industry this week so that production companies can resume their shooting. This package focuses on the acquisition of the cost of covid-19-related production losses. In addition, the Federal Government provides up to EUR 25 million in grants. The framework conditions for the NPO funds, which will be available to non-profit cultural institutions at EUR 700 million, are also being finalized. I would also like to thank my predecessor Ulrike Lunacek for her work in recent months and for everything she has been able to move in art and culture, for example the retranslations of funding in the department of more than 3 million euros to support the fields of music, film, fine arts and literature, or the 50 million euros of additional and advanced funding that the section for art and culture has already paid this year for the suspension of liquidity problems. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] One of the most important achievements of the last days, however, is certainly the easings in the event area from 29. May, from today, together with the 15th. May possible opening of museums, exhibition houses and books. This has become possible due to the low number of infections now, and it is good and it is enormously important that it is. I am really happy when I think that we can go back to concerts, theatre, cabaret or cinema this weekend! It is important for all of us, it belongs to our quality of life and our culture of life. Thus, many people in art and culture can resume their work and employment. In this respect too, it is not possible to stress enough how important this is. Of course, we are not yet in the art and cultural business, as we knew it before the Corona era, and of course there are still many open questions and areas that cannot yet be actively opened and active. But this is not a dispute between high culture and event culture, but it is about sitting or standing place. I am with Mr. Federal Minister Rudolf Anschober of one opinion that in June we will evaluate the opening arrangements so far and give the houses of all kinds orientation in June to how the operation can continue from September onwards. Of course, the global health crisis will also affect art and culture in the coming months, if not years. It is important that we take steps for the future today, give the artists hope and opportunities and the art and cultural institutions Planning safety. We must respond to the consequences of the crisis with forward-looking solutions and ensure appropriate state financing. The government programme offers not only a guide but also answers. I am looking forward to the time when we can also implement the important issues of the government programme and not only need to take acute action on the basis of corona. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As a whole, I see the development of a common strategy of federal, state and local authorities on fair payment and social security for all those working in the field of art and culture. This also includes a modern copyright with a reasonable remuneration for authors. I expressly call myself a public funding of art and culture. This is an investment in the capacity for the future and the creativity of our society. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But the responsibility for art and culture lies not only in the public hand, but also in the middle of society, that is, in the hands of all of us. We will examine incentive models for increased private commitment and financial deposits, and we want to invest in digitalization projects. We have a very good cultural infrastructure in the cities in Austria, but also in rural areas, art and culture are an important and exciting factor. It is therefore important to also promote regional culture accordingly, also with a view to the implementation of the federal structural guidelines for strengthening rural areas. Strengthening regional culture promotes the interaction of people, is important for the local economy and for the cohesion of our society. In addition, we must turn to and strengthen the culture of memory in a special way. He was 75 years old. The anniversary of the establishment of the Second Republic and thus the end of National Socialism. Although a lot of things have come into our mind, the 2020 memorial year is intended to serve as the starting point for a new commemorative culture based on a broad social basis. I am also very concerned about a well-positioned provenance research, resulting in a systematic return of art and cultural goods, which goes beyond the area of forced expropriation through National Socialism. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] And even if it is perhaps not the first topic in the field of art and culture, which comes to mind: I, too, have committed myself to sustainability in my area of responsibility, as has the entire Federal Government. At the Council of Ministers on Wednesday this week, the Federal Government adopted the first National Progress Report on the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. It was also established that the re-surgence of all areas of public life in Austria in Corona should also be based on the objectives of the 2030 Agenda. Culture, cultural heritage, cultural diversity, intercultural understanding and participation in cultural life are essential elements for sustainable development. It is therefore important to me that we send strong signals in this direction, both nationally and internationally, in the field of art and culture. At the end of the day, let me confirm the following: The Federal Government is aware that this is currently a very, very difficult time for all in art and culture is employees, and we know that the aftereffects of the corona pandemic will last even longer. I would like to work with my experience and with all my strength for the Austrian arts and culture sector so that we can get through this crisis well. As Secretary of State, I would like to ensure that the framework conditions for art and culture in Austria are actively developed and substantially improved. I would like to pursue a courageous, targeted cultural policy that has a positive impact on an effective instrument, the sustainable development of our society. May the necessary steps in this direction succeed together. I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for your active support. Many of you I have known for a long time from various functions, and also from those that I will still get to know: My hand is stretched out, my door is open, we're only strong together! . I look forward to working with the House and the first Committee on Culture, which, I believe, is scheduled for the next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5657	Thank you, Mrs. State Secretary. The next speaker was Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5682	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! Dear Andrea Mayer, welcome to the Federal Government, welcome to the House! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Before I go to the subject area art external, two more sentences on MP Kickl: I'm getting right. Fear or ask me what I have done wrong if Kickl recommends me as Secretary of State or recommends to the Deputy Chancellor and asks why I was not taken. [[Abg. Kickl: She's done it herself!]] – I really have to think about it because I did something wrong when I was recommended by Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: She's done it herself!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] One reason why I do not accept the office is to stay here in the House, in order to keep you and the FPÖ in particular on memorial policy issues, but also on university and high school policy issues – I could extend it now, but I do not have that much time – Paroli. That's important to me! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] I've known Andrea Mayer for a long time. We know each other above all from a time when we both worked in the field of high school politics: it was in the ministry, I was at the then - still - college of applied art. She was significantly involved in the fact that the art universities have become universities, and so to speak, at this time I have learned to appreciate them: her skills learned to appreciate and her enforcement, because it was not quite easy to make the art universities into universities. It is now true that some of these six Austrian art universities are at the forefront of the rankings, always in the first place – the University of Music and Performing Arts, but also the Academy of Fine Arts and the University of Applied Arts. The other three art universities – those in Linz and Graz and the Mozarteum – are also top and top in some sectors. There, among other things, the artistic youth is trained, where the artists find what they need for life as an artist or artist, and that is a lot: They need a lot of energy, they need a lot of strength to put on the challenge of being an artist or an artist, to follow up on her talent and to professionalize it so that you can actually live as an artist or an artist – that's hard enough. We know the numbers! It is also a challenge in non-Corona times to be able to live by art without having three, four side jobs without having to go waiter without having to do digital work. Whoever decides to become an artist or an artist, this is my greatest admiration. It's a hard way to go. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Andrea Mayer has already briefed a lot of what we have agreed in the government programme on the projects. There are many projects that we have for art and culture, and some of them also relate to the question of Corona, art, culture. There is a big point that we are planning to develop an art and cultural strategy – that is to say, to develop an art and culture political strategy, because an art strategy must be created by the artists themselves, that is their job. We need to see that the framework conditions are such that they will be the best for all those who work and work in this area. They're partly good, but they're also very bad. We must see that it will be better compared to the legacy of the previous federal governments – which, unlike the current Federal Government, did not really care about them – which we have undertaken. For decades there has been an increase in basic subsidies, there is no fair pay at federal level; we want to do all that, we will do it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am quite sure that the Federal Government will be able to do so if we improve all the measures we will take in the near future and we will also pay out the funds if it becomes clear that it is necessary in the summer to find funding that will also cover the years 2021 and 2021. They know, without tourism, and international tourism, it will be difficult for art and culture – that is also the perspective of art and culture. I think it was head of state Haslauer who said that if there were no Salzburg Festival, Salzburg would be a smaller city. – That’s exactly what it is; that’s a special perspective – if you want to do so – but also the small cinemas, whether in Freistadt, or in Styria, and the small cultural and art initiatives are also affected. They are important, but they too are very often dependent on tourism, and this will also have an impact in the coming years. We will take further support in the next few days, but we will need further measures from autumn onwards, not support, but actual funding of this area for the next two or three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5780	Next speaker: Mr Thomas Drozda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5807	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear members of the Federal Government, I praise you – that is in the nature of the opposition – rather rare, but with the order Andrea Mayers, I must say that you really got the right thing in front of the curtain. From my own experience I know – Attention, Werner Kogler!, Attention, Sebastian Kurz! – that their enforcement is also valid and especially their superiors. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] It is professionally qualified and knows the interfaces between policy and administration. I now allow myself to call her a veteran, but as a veteran in the field of art and cultural policy, she is as familiar with the large tankers as she is with the life realities of the freelance artists. Nevertheless, it pays off, again and again the old question: Cui bono? to put. Another time, in my opinion, the Turks succeeded in bringing a coalition partner into the Bredouille. Federal Chancellors and Finance Ministers have weighed, measured and found the artists unimportant. The creative and critical voices of art and culture are nagging the Turks as well as the critical media. The Corona crisis was, of course, a good time for a power demonstration in these two areas. With the non-decisive and non-cumbersome one showed the media scene, but also the cultural scene, which is the matter. At the same time, opposition and anger were provoked from the ranks of the word-powerful artists. This has not only damaged Ulrike Lunacek, but also the Greens as a whole. Although Andrea Mayer is highly competent, I remain suspicious, and it is suspicious whether under these cultural conditions she can giant with this coalition partner. She is not a member of the government as a State Secretary. She's not a minister, but only one minister has Vetorecht in the Council of Ministers. If this veto is lacking, it lacks power. The lack of power is mostly reflected in a small budget. But hundreds of large and small theatres, museums, cinemas, festivals and concerts await a real perspective, as well as thousands of artists for financial support. Undoubtedly, the current easings in the cultural area are welcome, a first step. At least they now provide assistance for self-help, but the revenue from performances to smaller audiences will not replace the corona failures. It takes a real act of strength to bring our cultural nation back to its feet. In addition to the financial security of cultural institutions, there is a need for a rescue shield for the creatives in this country. Innumerable people have not received any support in spite of a total loss of revenue. We owe the Blender Blümel the responsibility of the Chamber of Commerce. With the recent unconstitutional attack, this one has done all the honour of his reputation as a poseur from a budget. If the situation were not so tragic, it would almost be funny. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So the drama continues. The cultural challenges remain great even after the change at the head of the State Secretariat. It is important to overcome budgetary resistance in the coalition. I remain skeptical that this can be achieved with a turquoise coalition partner. We know this important sentence of Adorno, and I would like to give this particular thought to the green colleagues, Sigi Maurer. This sentence reads as follows: “There is no real life in the wrong.” – You can make an actual correction. [[Abg. Maurer:... wrong sentence...!]] For the Greens, this means: Whether there is a real policy with the Turks will show up. Ulrike Lunacek already knows he's not. Werner Kogler is well aware of it and has drawn his personal consequences from it. Everyone else may already be dimming. Moreover, I believe that art and cultural policy is currently lacking in a ministry and a proper budget. Is art supported for the sake of art, or does the great coalition partner, despite new Secretary of State, continue to carry out political angular movements on the back of the cultural creators? We'll see that in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5855	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has been announced that a resolution will be tabled in the course of the debate. I say this because this motion for a resolution, when it is tabled, will be put to the vote at the end of this debate and I will therefore begin to blaze – so that you will know why this is the case. The next speaker is Mr Volker Reifenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5880	Actually, I wanted to welcome the Federal Chancellor here in his own statement. I've already rewritten my speech a few times, once with greetings, once without because he always goes out and in. Now, not only has he gone away, but also Mr Vice-Chancellor is absent from the joint declaration. [[Call the Greens – towards Vice-Chancellor Kogler, who goes to the government bank –:... oh there!]] Perhaps I have the chance to make up for this greeting at the end of my speech. I now welcome all the other members of the government who are present, and especially, of course, the new Secretary of State. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! So we have the first small government reform at a State Secretariat. The art and culture scene is breathing, because – without wanting to come close to it, but you have to be so honest – Ulrike Lunacek was at least in this position the largest political misoccupy since Norbert Darabos as Minister of Defense. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have already found it courageous that she originally agreed to take up this job at all. After all, she has – and I think it is high on her – now decided to step back and correctly realize that she is not the right person for this job, because she does not come from the arts and culture area. She now has to keep – Klubobmann Kickl said it – as a sacrifice for a completely missing crisis policy, which is not responsible for Lunacek, but short and Kogler, Blümel and Anschober. However, she has received the political dagger blast from her own green cultural speaker, and this is also a remarkable circumstance. It would be too cheap to get rid of Mrs Lunacek now. With Andrea Mayer, we now have a new Secretary of State, which really also brings technical expertise. She's not green, but that doesn't matter, it might even be better. I am also pleased - unfortunately the Secretary of State does not listen to me either. [[In the direction of Secretary of State Mayer, with Abg. Wöginger says:]] If I ask for your attention briefly, I would like to address you personally now! – I can’t, I still say it: I am pleased that Mrs. State Secretary, as a former curatorial member of the Salzburg Festival, will certainly have an open ear for our Festival in Salzburg – I am Salzburg MP – and will not abandon these Festivals. I also highly expect the Secretary of State to offer an appointment to the cultural speakers of the opposition parties within a few days to exchange. The predecessor did not think it necessary until the end, and I hope that we will be able to make a common appointment in good time. It is a pity that you are sitting so far away at this item on the agenda, I know, because you are the Secretary of State, but it also shows a little the importance of art and culture in the government. As well as you are professionally qualified – no one can agree with you – I still fear that it will be difficult for you, for the following reason: They do not come from any party apparatus, at least from none of the government groups, and so you lack the necessary domestic power you need. Therefore, with the limited possibilities as Secretary of State, they again depend on Kurz’ and Kogler’s graces. I wish you every success on this ride on the proverbial shaving blade I really don't envy you. On the other hand, the government parties have denied an opportunity to have a structural, comprehensive government reform. Nothing against you, Mrs State Secretary, but it would have been the right time now – it has already been said today – to replace this State Secretariat. Vice-chanc Kogler, who is Minister of Culture, had in these difficult times had to explain these agendas as the chief thing, draw them on and take over the row. - Misachieved! – The green fast-food enthusiast is afraid of the possible conflict with the art and culture creators, wants to take himself out of the line of fire and thus shows the entire Republic its leadership weakness. The experiment to hold a Secretary of State in his own ministry on the same party ticket – before Mrs. Kucharovich now receives a heart attack, I expressly note that this is not an anti-female, it has nothing to do with the sex! – is strange: One takes a person from one’s own area, so to speak, as an assistant to the ministry. In any case, this experiment makes no sense except if Federal Minister Kogler prefers to take care of the sports resort and thus keeps the annoying cultural evenings away from the body. Perhaps the Greens would have had a statural internal problem with the removal of the State Secretariat, because the gender relationship is no longer compatible. In fact, you could have exchanged with the senior teacher, Anschober, for an expert from the health field. In fact, the next candidate is the candidate for retirement. Last week it became known that the Landesverwaltungsgericht Niederösterreich, by lifting a 600-Euro-Strafe, had found that it was never forbidden to meet in private spaces. But, assumingly, Nehammer and Kurz, this has always communicated differently. This reduced regulation, which has caused so many personal sufferings in this country, has to be blamed by Minister Anschober. An average jus student in the third semester would have brought this regulation together better. You have now missed this opportunity for a government reform. However, I wish the new State Secretary much success in the sense of the art and culture scene, which is heavily overburdened by the government's actions. Don't take over too many extremely left-wing fantasys from the greens and don't let the ÖVP hurt you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5925	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e5950	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Minister and Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! High house! Art belongs to man and art makes us human. – Our new Secretary of State Andrea Mayer has said this sentence in her first statement – a great statement that I can and would like to stress to 100 percent. The new Secretary of State brings a lot, we've already heard that. Andrea Mayer can and is very, very much. She is above all an experienced, competent professional, and that is exactly what we need now. Austria is a country of culture, we are world leaders in this field. Of course, she has also experienced this in her position as a cabinet director at the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, since many state guests – as she has said – have always wanted to experience culture in Austria and want to connect Austria with it. We have also heard that culture and tourism are closely linked. That is why we certainly need even longer support for culture. However, I would like to stress in particular what the Secretary of State brings: She speaks the language of culture. She understands cultural artists, artists, she understands large institutions and she understands the free scene. I was allowed to meet Andrea Mayer a few years ago. We already had a great, constructive, very, very good first conversation, and I look forward to working with you very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Drozda, I would like to ask you: Take your distrust and tell you: We have certainly done nothing on the back of artists or not – no one else. It was this week God had gone much further with the help of all in this Federal Government. We have already heard that the Economic Chamber's hardening fund has been extended to six months, increased to 1 000 euros. A total of 25 million euros were granted for the Austrian film. The film is also very important for cultural identity. Col. Blimlinger and I have brought in the new Künstlerfonds, the bridge fund for freelances, for independent freelance artists: EUR 90 million per month for six months. I would like to stress that this government has set out a lot for culture this week, and I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mrs. State Secretary! There is still a lot of work for the culture, for the country of Austria in front of you and before us all. I know we both have a passion for it, and that is why I am convinced that we will have very good cooperation. I thank you for that now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6016	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6040	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Two words on colleagues Kickl: It is unbearable how comprehensive your insistence is! [[Abg. Kickl: Go!]] It is unbearable that you give here from the speaker's desk of human-respective content. They play on the piano of discrimination! [[Abg. Kickl: Stop it!]] – It is really inconceivable that you attack people because of their sex, because of their sexual orientation. We will be against it on every occasion and we will take action to protect discrimination! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Mrs. State Secretary, I would like to come to your presentation. I am really looking forward to working with you and hope that the world for artists will improve a whole piece, especially as regards the financial and social situation of artists. As an extremely experienced expert in the arts and culture scene, I have great hope that the truly imaginative situation, which was created by Corona, which was already present before Corona, is fully aware of many art and cultural artists. It is fire on the roof because artists have no income due to Corona and the announcement press conferences in recent months do not pay rents, no food, no survival costs. Artists are simply in front of nothing. Quite honestly, neither the emergency aid nor the hardening fund works. It's terrible for thousands of art and culture creators. As a result of the crisis, it is therefore urgently necessary, now, to actively provide emergency aid, at last to really pay out the funds. Yes, it is positive that 90 million euros were set up and from 1st century onwards. ==References====External links== But this only applies to the self-employed. What about the unself-employed? It is also positive that the Community funds will most likely be decided in the National Council today, but we do not yet know any guidelines and do not know when they will really be taken. I would like to say that this is not only a criticism of us, but it also sees the national conference of the Heads of State or Government, which gave an opinion on the subject on 15 May. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking forward to all the approval. It is also fire on the roof, however, because the risk of poverty among cultural creators is enormous. I can simply remind you of the study on the social situation. As a social democracy, we have made many points: Fair pay measures, a comprehensive copyright law, the reform of the Artist's Social Insurance Fund, because the fund is not a savings association. I should therefore like to make a further motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Thomas Drozda, colleagues on “Culture is system-relevant – A life-saving umbrella and creating future prospects”, which I would like to explain in his key points. We call for the security of the existence of cultural creators and creatives – the key to basic protection for artists – to support short-term workers, the continuation of cultural institutions and creative companies, the creation of long-term prospects and a reconstruction plan. I mentioned fair pay measures, as well as the reform of the artist's social insurance fund. I am pleased when we all go this way together and agree to you. At times, during the last legislative period, we have encountered granite at the head culture minister Blümel, unfortunately sometimes even now. The hope of change lies with you, Mrs State Secretary, and the hope is known to die last. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:41]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6340	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore included in the debate and in the vote. There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. I too wish you, Mrs Mag.a Andrea Mayer, much success in your work within the meaning of our Republic. I ask the clubs if we can proceed to the vote. Or would you like to interrupt a session before? – Well, if that is the case, we can come to the vote immediately. We shall come to the vote. We shall vote on the motions for resolutions tabled during this debate. Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Thomas Drozda, colleagues on the implementation of the opinion of the Heads of State on Austria’s art and culture. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Thomas Drozda, colleagues on “Culture is system-relevant – lifting up the rescue shield and creating future prospects”. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[11:43:47]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Maria Großbauer, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues regarding a federal law establishing a federal law on the establishment of a non-profit organisation, and the Federal Law amending the COVID-19 Funding Act (20. COVID-19 Act (186 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6429	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Volker Reifenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6456	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! – Now I have the opportunity to repeat my greeting from the past. - High house! In principle, in the last few weeks, we have repeatedly assembled that there is a need for support also in the field of non-profits, which is still not available. This is really undisputed. Now, with enormous delay – and this delay is probably at the brake of the ÖVP – there is a new fund. However, in order not to give the public the wrong impression that the government would take on new money, I agree that this 700 million euros is not new resources, but that the already promised pot of 38 billion euros will come from. Once again, the government groups demand that we, with a consent to this law, buy the spoken-word cat in the bag, because the actual contents are still completely open. However, our initial confidence in the government's professional dealings with a large scope of action is no longer given. [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, but that..., is already strange!]] As far as the comprehensive regulatory empowerment is concerned, we have been incinerating children from the last few weeks. What are our criticisms? First of all: The directive is not yet in place, but in this case it is precisely the subject of the content of this directive. With this law, the legislator delegate almost everything – namely the objectives of promoting, the conditions and the level of support – to the legislator. The second point that bothers us is: Why is it necessary to reach agreement with Mrs. Köstinger? What do non-profit organisations have to do with agriculture or tourism? Or should only tourist organisations be supported? It seems, however, that it is only for the blacks to be able to speak accordingly in the directive. You probably don't want to leave your own room for action to the green pantyhose. The third point that bothers us is: There is no legal right to such support. - Why not? They are thereby degrading the non-profit organizations to beggars. This opens the door to clientele policy – not to say, the friendly economy – and the door. Significantly, the Vice-Cancecian's speech in the last Committee on Culture was, when he meant – I quote – that it was necessary to see that there was no exaggeration. – So I want your concerns, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You should publicly trust the representatives of the non-profit organizations! As good and as meaningful as the basic idea behind this proposal for a law is, the implementation is so inadequate. We will definitely no longer have comprehensive regulatory powers without clear legal requirements. I have already told you in committee that we are giving you the opportunity to improve until the plenary session, and that we reserve the right to vote in plenary. Yesterday evening we received an amendment which at least goes in the right direction, I admit, so we will also agree with Article 1 of this amendment. In total, however, it is still too little, which is why we will reject the law in third reading. What the non-profit organisations would like to know: When does this money flow? And please do not say again as in the Committee: As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6496	The next speaker is Mrs Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6517	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Dear Seers and Seers! If we change the German anthem again, maybe it should be called: Land of the mountains, land on streams, land of fields, land of the cathedral, land of the clubs rich in the future. Austria is one of the countries with the highest number of clubs, measured by the population. There are about 116,000 clubs, and I trust to bet or every bet that there is no one in the hall who is not a member of a club. People often say: No, I'm not a member. - Then I say: ÖAMTC, Arbö or VCÖ. [[General hustle and bustle.]] - It's already lost, isn't it? It's already lost. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] They're still non-profit. So I bet a lot of money that there's no one who's not in a club. In this sense, it is all the more necessary to establish this support fund at the Federal Ministry of Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport, which I must say, at last. It's been a long time, I like to admit, but it's really a very complex matter. The non-profit associations, foundations, funds, other legal persons range from – I say now – Bregenzer Festspiele to Caritas, from the SV Gerasdorf to the depot, to small architectural associations. We have a potpourri. They're animal protection associations, they're women's associations, education associations. Over the last few weeks, we have been very busy supporting everyone as possible and finding options for all – whether large or small or no matter what – in order to secure the club's life. As I said, It wasn't easy, it took a long time for it to go faster. We're making all the mistakes. However, we have had to first of all remember what this is, and so we are the only European country that has found a solution for the non-profit institutions – I am formulating it so widely now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is all the more important because the association is a achievement of the revolution of 1848. It is always about freedom of the congregation to meet. Anyone and anyone who or anyone who has already established an association will be surprised that there is a so-called non-obligation notice – and not an approval. In other words, anyone can establish this association, the authority may only prohibit it, it does not have the right to approve it. That is, like so much, an achievement of the revolution of 1848. I come to the question: Who's this about? – In principle, this law is addressed to those legal persons who are non-profit under the Federal Tax Code. Now it is true that in Austria there is no decision on community benefits, such as in Germany, which really complicates the whole thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Perhaps, after Corona times, we can agree that we are finally creating a situation in which the common good is determined by means of notice, but we can raise legal remedies if it is not established and one really can see clearly what role these non-profit associations play in Austrian society. That would be a very important point for me. In response to Mr Reifenberger, there are no directives yet: Yeah, that's right, but it wasn't a fund. We want to avoid and parallel the mistakes that have been made, for example, in the hardening fund. That is, we are in favour, there will be the drafts soon to come to a good conclusion. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Zarits.]] Let me now conclude by saying something about the amendment: We've always had the clubs in mind, and as the vice chancellor has already said in one of his press conferences: The voluntary fire brigades are also included. However, these are very often public law entities and would not have been covered by them. We have therefore included this in the amendment. My appeal is addressed to NEOS, who naturally have serious concerns about the fact that church institutions and bodies are also supported: Give me a back, you're right! [[Abg. Loacker: We are not as pious as the Greens!]] This is essentially about the fact that there are, for example, monasteries that depend on tourism, which now have no revenue, which also have seminar centres. So it is not about cross-financing the entire Catholic Church – I understand the concerns – but about individual lawyers. I would very much appeal that you agree! That would be a pleasure to me. It is also very important that those areas in the sport where there are very nested constructions and gears – GesmbHs and clubs, for example at the Bundesliga clubs, are covered. I think we have launched a wonderful package with the 700 million euros! We still need today's amendment, and then, after the Federal Council, the guidelines will be drawn up in cooperation with the AWS. These are created together with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism, which is very useful, because of course this is all over the world. Austria is very small in size and can thus be found a similar sound as it is for small, for large, for sport, for art, for culture, for animal protection, for women, for whomever it is possible in this non-profit area. Thank you very much. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] [[11:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6778	The amendment was distributed to all Members, explained in the broad guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Petra Steger, you are next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6805	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a premiere for me here in plenary, since for the first time as a sports speaker I can also speak on a request from the Cultural Committee. Why? – Because today it is around 700 million euros in aid payments to the non-profit associations, including the sports clubs. Why do I even mention that? – It is simply because it symbolically shows the importance of sports not only for this government, but above all for you, Mr Sport Minister, : no, ladies and gentlemen, at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They may be about art and culture, at least about the left, but certainly not about sport. You have shown this enough in the past: Already on 19.3. there was the announcement for the first aid payments in the field of art and culture, at that time amounting to EUR 5 million. Today, the third pot for art and culture has already been presented – probably still not enough in this area – but to date there has not been a single cent for sport, ladies and gentlemen! This is nothing but a complete disregard for the athletes in this country. This approach, however, is not only a symbol of the fact that sport does not mean anything to you, but it is also the first indication that my fears will actually occur, namely that sport, as stepmotherly as it has been treated in recent years, will end up staying on the track once again, simply because you throw all possible clubs – clubs that could not be different – into a pot together. I already know that the sport will have to go back, probably behind all the other clubs. It is absolutely incomprehensible to me why you create a common pot and not, for example, your own pot for sports; you can also calculate the damage in the area of sports very well. Why not make a fixed part of these 700 million euros available for sport, for example? Why don't you do that? When I look at the request this way, I also ask myself: Do you even have one? Your homework done? Do you know how high the damage is? Are there any calculations? Did you talk to those involved? – As far as I know, organized sports have repeatedly sent you a public letter because you just haven't done these homeworks! Instead of thousands of PKs, you should have put yourself in your office to do exactly these homeworks, Mr. Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This law and this request in this form are simply not enough! Although they want a general authorisation to pay out, they do not provide any information. There are no directives, there is no legal claim for the associations, and the worst is: Until the whole thing is done, it will just be too late! It will take months – weeks, if not months – until the first aid payments actually flow. Then it will be too late for many clubs in this country! For this reason, on Tuesday in the budget debate, we have already applied for an emergency aid of 150 million euros in the field of sport. You, too, incomprehensiblely rejected this together with the Blacks, Mr. Minister. I ask you once again – and I urgently address this appeal to you: If this help doesn't come immediately if you don't finally lay a few courses with the help of the sports clubs in this country, it will be too late! If you are unable to fulfill these tasks, make room for someone who is!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6854	Next speaker: Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6875	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers in front of TV screens! After a long time ago, after long hesitation, after long struggles and a lot of pressure from the opposition, and above all from the art and cultural creators, to listen to them, to take their situation seriously, but also those of the NPOs and EPUs – the many, many NPOs in their width, as Eva Blimlinger has already done – we stand here today and discuss for the first time this non-profit organization support fund, and that is good. In the course of autumn and winter, I had planned to talk to people who are already shaping the future, who are doing very special things, of which we can learn a great deal as social democracy. I came here very quickly to organizations which are to be attributed to these areas, organizations which are in the Social business are moving, and, of course, organizations from the NPO sector. These include institutions such as Magdas, a hotel run by Gabriela Sonnleitner, which offers prospects for refugees in the form of training and often employment in the tourism sector. But that is also Judith Pühringer of work plus, a network of non-profit labour policy organisations; 200 and more organisations are involved in providing options for disadvantaged people. These are just two examples. These organizations are already living what we want: They are particularly sustainable, they are particularly innovative, they are also socially committed, and they combine economic success with social and environmental benefits. They are a treasure to sum it up briefly, and we should preserve these treasures and especially support them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in the area of social entrepreneurship, I have encountered many problems, because these organizations are often organized as associations, are non-profit, but shape the future. That is, they do not come up with support because these funding instruments are different because they cannot be submitted there. That was already the case before Corona, and of course you can imagine what it looks like now, in Corona times. – The theme of social entrepreneurship. Second story: Art and culture – this request was discussed in the Art and Cultural Committee – are of course very affected by many: whether this is the Musikverein or the Konzerthaus; whether the superar is, a children's choir, where disadvantaged children find musical training and support that has grown to my heart; whether this is the Viennaale; whether the impulse dance is, and many more – but also the kindergartens. Yes, that is, the NPO support fund is a very important tool to catch up with all these organisations and help them over this difficult time, but I must say that it is nice that we can discuss this law today; the directive is still missing. Dear Eva Blimlinger, I believe you are speaking – we know each other for a long time – that you, together with your colleagues, are trying to make good this directive and this fund, but in the past we have also seen which surprise boxes – in the negative sense – there has always been: whether this was the hardening fund; whether it was the matter – in my area – in connection with the school travel fund. It is precisely these fines that make it up at the end of the day, and we need this directive. What is it about now? Who really is entitled to apply? We now know who is not entitled to apply, but who really is entitled to apply? How are the funding levels, how are the own-funding shares? Is there what and, if so, how high are they? What are the criteria? – These are exactly the fineties that we actually need to know in order to be able to better assess this law. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless and last, but not least: We will agree because we need it because it needs support for these organizations and institutions, but once again we buy the cat in the bag.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6942	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e6972	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, we are discussing today debated the establishment of a non-profit organization support fund, i.e. a support fund for non-profit organisations and associations of 700 million euros, because the Corona crisis, of course, has also fully affected them. Austria is rich, rich in diversity and commitment, organized in non-profit associations, in many areas of life: in art, in culture, in sports, in social affairs – in many areas, we have already heard a lot. There are Zig thousands of clubs in Austria, and I would like to take a closer look at art and culture below and give you a small overview. Here I would like to highlight two areas, which have not only been important social pillars in our country for decades, but also contribute a lot to children and young people and are very committed, and I would like to take a look at them, which also support a little bit with figures and facts, first choir and second the bubble music. From the statistics on choirs of the Choir Association Austria you can read, there are over 3,500 choirs in Austria – that is even more than football clubs – with more than 100,000 singers. They give 13,000 concerts per year, create 20,000 fairs and services, make over 90,000 choir samples, 11,000 social events, more than 500 radio and television productions. As everywhere in culture, the international aspect is also essential for cultural associations: The choirs received over 1,000 guest choirs and themselves made over 1,500 trips to the world. The choir association, choirs themselves are also very active in schools, have many cooperations with schools, also together with federal states and national school councils. For example, they have jointly developed quality stamps for schools on the subject of singing: In Lower Austria there is the seal of quality Singing, sounding school, in Upper Austria and in Styria the mastersinger schools, in Salzburg the sinking classroom. It is very important that not a singelite be trained, but that these young people, these young brains, so to speak, discover this great, fantastic emotion and energy of the common singing. The various positive effects of singing on development have long been studied and demonstrated in studies. How popular the chorsing in Austria has not least shown a television show in the ORF: “The great opportunity of the choirs” was even in the main evening program and was very popular. I would also like to address the bubble music briefly, including a few numbers: There are over 2 000 associations throughout Austria, over 1 000 Youth Wind Orchestras, over 150,000 active members, more than 70 000 appearances per year, over 100,000 samples. Blasmusik can be heard at spring concerts, at spa concerts, at church and social festivals and holidays, from Fronleichnam to the village festival, for locals, as well as for tourists – even for tourism, the clubs are quite, very important – which belongs to Austria and is also part of our musical and cultural identity. Allow me to look a little deeper on bubble music, especially for colleagues Schellhorn! Blasmusik is not only march and tradition, as we know, especially in recent years and decades – really decades! – has developed a great modern literature for these sound bodies, which is now called symphonic brass music, and that is certainly also strongly influenced by film music. Go to the Austrian composer Otto M. Schwarz, for example! His compositions for Woodband, as the Blasorchester is called internationally, are performed in over 60 countries around the world, also in Singapore, Japan, Thailand. There are quite exciting new aspects to discover. Blasmusik is actually around the world, on every continent, but Austria is also a great example in this area throughout the world. With regard to Blasmusikvereine, of course, it is also to be mentioned and underlined that for many, many years they have been cooperating with music schools, fostering with folk schools and providing important things in the field of cultural education and also contributing to the reputation of the music country Austria. All these cultural associations make Austria a country of culture, because they reach so many people, enrich because of this breadth, pros emerge. This is how our country of culture works, which is why we are a country of culture, because in every village, in every small town, in every federal state, there are a lot of cultural associations in every city – and that is why, of course, we have to support them financially, so that they too can cope well with this crisis. As of today, samples are possible again, while exercising the activity, of course you do not have to wear oral nose protection, 1 meter distance or other protective measures such as fixed teams or protective walls are to be observed. I certainly wish everyone a lot of joy in the first sample. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7033	I have a statement on the actual correction of Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. Please, ladies and gentlemen. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7060	Mrs. Großbauer said that there are more bubble music chapels than football teams in Austria. [[Abg. Grand Bauer: Choirs! Choir!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'm actually correcting: There are 3,600 men's combat teams and 104 women's teams in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7125	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7149	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear spectators at home! We come from the actual correction to the facts. – Is the art or can it be gone? This question has often been raised in recent weeks when the government's legislation has been put on the table. At the moment, the law to support NPOs is also more art than politics, because of course the corresponding directive is still missing. We wonder why all this takes so long and when the organisations get money, and we very much hope it doesn't take as long as the companies, the EPCs and SMEs do. We are also eager to see what Werner Kogler is working on with Elli Köstinger and then put into force by Parliament, but – Spoileralert! – Regardless of that, we will agree to the NPO support fund. But one thing is important to me: In the last Cultural Committee meeting, Werner Kogler referred to my question as ensuring that party-related associations do not receive funds from the NPO support fund, that he cannot imagine that there are party-related non-profit associations that benefit from it. - Yes, that's a steep announcement. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So I can hardly imagine the opposite. Austria is full of close-to-party associations that organize tent festivals, whose officials become rich with Advent markets and receive the tax fees for medieval festivals, which they hold in castles, which are also renovated and operated with tax money. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Loacker.]] You don't have to move far out of town. In Vienna, there is currently a committee of inquiry in connection with the use of grants. [[Interlocutory call from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger.]] This may sound a bit unlamourous, but the who’s who of the political scene is being investigated. To name just a few: Of the Greens, Christoph Chorherr and his organization Ithuba are to be called. As always, the SPÖ Wien is also at the front, from the children's friends to the association to the promotion of the Musikschule Wien. You have to let that break on your tongue! Instead of simply being a municipal government party To start music schools and let professionals operate, there is an association of SPÖ that financially supports music schools in various matters. That already sounds a bit like nested offshore shops from the construction. Unwarned emperor, however, is the ÖVP, which even in red-green Vienna manages to establish clubs, to cash subsidies and to cut well on the plaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] This is from the city festival, which was last funded with half a million euros against the presentation of only three documents, up to non-money flows and fictitious donations to associations in which our Minister of Finance was president. Non-money flow is a word creation by Gernot Blümel, our Minister of Finance. He is even a skilled clubmeier and can even finance his homepage from an association, but in turn, as we are assured, he is only financed by the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] So, what you need a club for, it doesn't matter to me. So we support the NPO support fund, but we want to ensure that the wrong association constructions of parties do not receive a penny from it. We also owe this to the many great clubs and NPOs in Austria, in which hundreds of thousands of people are involved and enthusiastic about it. You've earned every cent of support. However, there should be no small side-effect, there should not be any party associations from this fund to get a basket money, which then flows back to parties and clubs. Then another word to the Greens: You have rightly criticized Herbert Kickklritized the sound of the other side. But if you at the same time reject all LGBTIQ requests from us, then the bigotry is in pure culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7245	Mrs Pfurtscheller spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7270	Madam President. Mrs Brandstötter of the NEOS has just claimed that party officials would organise Advent markets to enrich themselves personally. I'm actually correcting: There are party officials, for example my ÖVP women, who organise Advent markets. The money earned with it is always donated for a good purpose and usually used in the locality where the event takes place. If that were not the case, then there would still be the party financing law that would prevent party officials from using the money for themselves. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7323	Ladies and gentlemen! We always have a very generous interpretation at the Presidency in actual corrections. I would only ask, in the further debate, if any actual corrections were to be made to the provisions which we ourselves have given ourselves in the Rules of Procedure, to keep a little more stringent than was the case with the last actual corrections as a whole. [[Abg. Belakovich:... President Sobotka!]] Mr Werner Kogler has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7355	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to give a general speech anymore, but rather to deal with a few raised points in the required scarcity – as a member of the government, you are also present – and finally say a few basic thoughts. It was just mentioned by the first speaker, Mr Reifenberger, that this comes from the 38 billion euro pot. - Yeah, where else? The story is: The Federal Government has proposed – that is already a few weeks ago – to see an adjustment in the course of the Whatever-it-take, so that the Federal Finance Agency can operate at all, so that we can send pots out of this out, and that happens, of course, that is quite logical. Should the 38 billion euros remain 38 billion euros and should any auxiliary pot come back, then what about the 38 billion euros? Then we would have 38 billion euros and would make a pot for short work, then a pot for this fund, one for this fund and another for that fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] This has just been created for the fact that you can act with different instruments – by the way, there are various instruments inside and guarantee products – that if you want to, you can draw from them. These are all the changes. I congratulate – we may already know – on this point all those who know very well what it needs at the end, who already know whether it will be EUR 25 billion or EUR 45 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] We knew at the beginning that it would be more than the 4 billion euros. You can say, okay, that took a little longer. However, it is not known that we will land about 10 percent of the gross domestic product – if you think about it, if you think it's exactly the 38 billion euros – that you don't know. This is, in any case, a sensible adjustment. It's an adjustment, a targeted sum, that's all it can't be. That is where the same principles apply as many of those in this budget debate. So I think it would be weird if we took this extra place, as long as the 38 billion euros have not yet been exhausted. - So much for it. Maybe we've created a misunderstanding. With all the praise I always spread over previous governments, because Austria is so good at economics, so that we can actually pay ourselves by 0 per cent, actually still with minus interest when calculating inflation: By the way, this will remain the same for one or two years. So we don't have to worry if it's going to be 50 billion euros. If it gets less, it will be right for everyone. That's a sum with which you organize something, that's clear. We will not, just because we do not pay interest, take in 38 billion euros and hide them somewhere. So I can't follow that logic. That's exactly what it's meant to do if you want to do so; and if it needs more, it'll need more, everything it takes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The next story also has to do with money: the damages collection. It refers, as I have explained several times, to a perspective of six months. Therefore, the sum is also relatively high and these are also estimates. However, it is correct – and I believe that I have already achieved a certain degree of agreement with honourable Member Drozda twice in this House and on other occasions – that if we want to secure and bridge once before the autumn – this has a lot to do with cost replacements, I can also say something about it, so there are a few thoughts that will then be found in the directive – then from the late autumn to the new year there may need a different basis for calculating those sectors where something is still to be done. We don't know that very well now, with engagement. Then on the question of why they are all treated the same way and why they are not louder different pots: So the pots that are there are: Those for sports. For that I understand, we have our own Bundes-Sport GmbH. Then, of course, we have the field of art and culture, and there are also many different genres, as we know. There are many socially committed associations that do a lot for society, a few have been mentioned. We also have the area of development cooperation. But we also have the fire brigades that were called. Besides, interesting: We are taking over something for which the federal states are actually responsible. We'll do it! It would be reasonable at all – I have offered the municipalities and countries – to help quickly with smaller amounts from our own budgets, because this is due to the results of the financial compensatory negotiations to be updated, if you like, a post of loss of damage to the municipalities and to the federal states, but they are closer to it, which could act quickly. It must not, therefore, be left in our country because of these processes that you describe or criticise here, if all play together. Those who are closer to it can also assess this faster. What we offer is that no one is excluded from this funding pot just because he may have received a smaller amount from the municipality or from a federal state. This problem has actually occurred elsewhere, and it is now being avoided. So you can move forward if you want to, you can also see the light, you don't always have to see black – I don't know what this is for a tendency, especially on the sides of the liberal group, which is always hiding in the dark. So it's not that dark again, there's already some hope, I think, and to give them, we're here for that. Yeah, it took a bit longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] What quote would have to do with it again? – I say nothing to: as soon as possible, but to: Transfer. – I did not invent that, you can calculate it, but I have already found a certain understanding of the negotiating basis on the part of the Ministry of Finance when it comes to constructing funding guidelines or this law in such a way that, at the end of the day, this thing is equipped with a certain degree of confidence and that it is not easy to pay for it without specific criteria. That was the concern there. That the clarification of this question has stopped us longer than I thought it was desirable, I have even publicly annotated, and sometime again must be finished. I am pleased to have a compromise when something goes on. It is not true that in a way we would not have conducted these negotiations in a transparent manner in the interest of sport and also of all the other areas. I am telling you why this is now a single directive. You could have thought differently, too. That was the whole chain, we have 20 pots when you look at it all. I don't want to think about it or something, you can do it, and perhaps we have to think about how we can get through the late autumn into the new year, because there are different needs in the reconstruction, when we start, and perhaps the revenue component should also play a stronger role. [[Abg. Lightness: Was that the idea...!]] In order not to create a misunderstanding: It cannot be covered at the same time with a first bridging aid, all the losses in revenue, all the costs that are almost dead costs, which are not very much in comparison with those which could not be prevented. We will make a generous cost-replacement model, with which you should get over the rounds very well. As far as this non-transmission is concerned, as I said, not by me, there has also been a basic idea – which we have cleared aside – in which it has also been argued that the non-profits in the grants in the now comparable large corona aid fund cannot be better off than the businesses. However, we have agreed on something else, because it is precisely – I have it in committee, I think, at least, already explained – non-profit non-profit organisations. They're called: They can make little reserves, in the usual sense not at all, they can also not draw from future profits, quite clear. That is why, if they are non-profit, they are expected to drive charitable things in the long term: Income equal to expenditure equal to non-profit activities when everything is running properly. That is how it is understood, and that is why these directives have come to be safe – with certainty! – from the point of view of non-profit organisations, allow a much higher cost replacement than after the other fund. That was the idea, too, that all the associations are thought of to the Coronahilfe Fund. It's just so different. What is the same, however, and why we now all have these non-profits in this line, is the calculation formula for the non-profits, which will then come out once. I cannot yet see any major damage, either to social institutions or to sports, if the formula of calculation is a similar or the same. It is important that costs that were not avoidable in this crisis are at least replaced – probably now up to 100 percent – and that the access rights, defined by certain loss of proceeds, are also equal. So I would have been interested in the debate if it had been so, in the arts sector so, in the social field and in another area. They would also have been jealous of each other. I've already dropped this appeal, because some of these tendencies are noticed outside – yes, but here inside I have less understanding of that –: I do not believe at all that it is possible to bring art and culture against sports associations, against social associations, against development cooperation associations in such a way. Either they do something for society – they are non-profit, there are criteria – then you should accept it, or you should question the Austrian association. You can do that too, but I don't think the clubs are playing against each other. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I may have been there to salopp when I looked through the terms and quotations; one, that is, with the close-to-party associations, was added to me. So, that could have been what I meant – moment!, yes, exactly, right – and you will find that in the legal text, in the old text, not only in the amendment that the parties themselves have no access rights at all and that the other non-profit associations are. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] It's just useful, just like I said before. It is held in Austria so that there are relatively many party memberships. That someone who is in a party is also in a club, you can either criticize it or not – I wouldn't do it at all – whether a club is already a party nearer, just because one of its members is a greener from me, whether that affects the community's ability to do so, I don't know. It is only important that one does not set up events under the roof of the Community and then, if these fail, the costs are somehow alimentary and this money is then carried into a party register. I can't, that's clear! But that there are associations that are non-profit and may be associated with parties, after that you, who are much longer than we – only the NEOS are younger than we – will probably not wonder about the tradition of Austrian politics. I have no reason to meddle in it at all, but it's only important that nothing gets into the party funds, quite simply. In this matter, the Party Transparency Act would help us to implement it. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That would have been, I think, essentially. I have already indicated how the construction looks: that we are replacing, first and foremost, costs – but much more generous than in the funds known so far – and that, depending on how the process is, this will generate different levels of payout, which are then objective. We will make the first disbursement relatively quickly, without major counter-checks, and at the end of the second or third, we will see if this is about to happen; Keywords: The Ministry of Finance's concern, which I understand. This could, for example, be such a way of checking samples at the end of the year and preserving any recalculation. We know this in our house from the sports promotion. Grosso modo is about paying the money once in two or three tranches. The last question associated with it was about the construction - - – I always heard it; it was a familiar voice, now I can assign it, but with this plexiglass it is - - – so according to my records it has been the last; but good. [[Abg. Lightness:..., Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who was the last!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Light peace is a pleasure to speak!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: We are for the addition, Mr. Vice-Chancellor!]] But if you want to, I can give a reply to honourable Member Steger, then you are right and it was the last one. That's what I'm doing. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Mr Steger said that we would not have tried. She is committed to the very strong and truly very credible interests of the sports clubs, and indeed of the associations, and that is what she has expressed here again. However, it is true that we were intensive in exchange, we even met physically – with the famous meter distances, not worried – but there were at least so many video conferences. We already know the concerns of the sports clubs, we also know that some prefer to have their own sports pot, that's right, that's what they say to the public. And you are also interested in how high these funds will be. Well, if we have the guidelines, there's no need to worry about not paying out along the guidelines. Now I have also reached the last point I would like to make to you: It is certainly so – and you can predict that – that, in terms of art and culture, which is debated very popularly here, as well as in the field of sports, this, according to our forecasts, goes to a three-digit million height. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] - Yes, three! That's because that's a topic in the house right now, 100 million euros up – just for co-written. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am really confident that this is exactly how it works and that the international funding structures we hold can be seen in comparison with the international funding structures that we have. And elsewhere, you don't always get paid as fast as you might think. We are following this both in the art section and in the sports section, which is happening in all the countries of Europe: There is also often more annotated than paid, but should be. Finally, I tell you, it will not only be possible to see this, it will also be apparent that we, especially as regards art and culture or sport, will be among the highest promoters; I now trust to say this, even if the sum is not yet fixed. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But that is in the nature of the matter. In addition, the other funds do not know from the outset. It has been said that for the hardness fund 2 billion euros and for the Corona crisis fund 15 billion euros, but there are guidelines, and along which this will move – quite simply! And if more is needed, more is needed. But we already have the much bigger task before us, namely to look at when this is complete, as we even – because this is once a bridge and a safeguard – get into the entire restart area. And maybe we'll manage to have a more peaceful discussion with each other. At least my hand is stretched out. We have enough to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7540	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7561	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! If I summarize what Mr Vice-Chancellor has referred to, then, I believe, two areas are very important: first, 700 million euros for NPOs, which we decide today on the basis of a law – that is the essential point. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 700 million euros for claimants, with 31.12.2018 there are 124 000 active clubs in Austria – many of them, and I think it is the completely wrong time to go, as Mr. Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned, and to play sports against art and culture or even associations of counter gastronomy companies. That is, I think, the completely wrong approach. The lockdown has shown us exactly what it needs in the towns in Austria: It needs a good interaction so we have frequency, between clubs, gastronomy companies and institutions. If that is given, then what is going on, then we like to go to the villages and then the village cores will be revived. We're all gonna need and we all need. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, three out of twelve people in Austria are volunteering: 2.3 million people, and if you take everything into account, including the volunteers, then it is 3.4 million people who work in the voluntary and association. More than 220 000 contractual relations are established, dear SPÖ, which is 5 percent of those working in the field of association. Ladies and gentlemen, with this package, we also relieve the state, the public sector, we also strengthen an indispensable control function in the form of civil engagement, we also ensure citizens' participation and promote awareness-raising in many areas when it comes to NGOs and also NGOs. At this point, as a member of the board of directors of a small club in Tyrol, I would like to encourage, trust and show understanding for all in the scene – I would also like to say this on behalf of all cultural speakers: We'll do the best we can! We do the most possible to open the door for the scene to hear, to support, to feel and to show honest appreciation, and we will not leave you alone. This is an essential component of this package. It's right: Today we decide on the legal basis and not the directive. What is the rule of law to call for a directive now if we have not yet voted on the law? – So I ask everyone: first the law, then the directive, and we will all be very active in building it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7616	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Köllner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7643	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vice-Kanzler, I would like to begin by thanking you: I have now received the information from your office that we sport speakers get an appointment from you to discuss the future of sports. So I notice that you have to be scrambled. What's that about? I can only guess: Perhaps you just lost sight of sports through chaos in the State Secretariat for Art and Culture. On the other hand, you have certainly noticed that sport is a heart concern to me and I want to introduce myself constructively. You yourself have almost exclusively stood here in your long political career, where I am standing, and know the need to press out of the opposition role to be hard on the matter so that something goes on. So I'm still surprised how you deal with this situation, because: Both broadband and top sports have had the feeling of fighting windmills in recent weeks and months. I would like to read to you at this point a message from an alarmed official: “Dear Max! As you know, during the winter break we only renovated our cabin building, exchanged heating, new sanitary rooms [...]. The invoices for material costs and external work came almost simultaneously with the Coronalockdown. We have, of course, calculated the average revenue from canteens, admissions and events to finance. Due to the rejection of the championship games, however, these sources of revenue fall completely away at permanent fixed costs. [...] I'm afraid sponsors could break us away. [...] I ask for your support.” This is just a parade example of how volunteer officials who work with their body and soul at their heart's association goes in times of Corona. The promised quick and unbureaucratic help was a fairy tale. I really miss the appreciation of sport and club life. [[Complementary of the Abg. Steger.]] – Thank you, Mrs. Colleague! – And you can’t talk out either, because the calls for help really came very early. Allow me a short chronology: Even before the lockdown, there were first voices that the sport needs compensation. ==References== I requested an immediate first aid of at least 100 million euros for the first time in March. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They then became at least short-term mint in April and have announced a package of aid. We've repeated our demand several times in the meantime, but it's up to today, 29. May, it takes a paper to be on the table. In football you would have long replaced the coach with a faster player. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steger.]] Mr Sports Minister, I can assure you, however, that there is at least one player in this government who has done much more Schnitzer, and you know at the latest since this Pleiten-Pech- und-Ppannen-Budgetweek, who I mean, our treasurer Gernot Blümel. [[Sociability and applause with the SPÖ as well as acclaim of the Abg. Steger.]] We can't turn the clock back, we're already in the replay time. Now speed is required. Although there is once again no legal claim to the aid package, I hope that the support will nevertheless arrive quickly and effectively before the replay time is over and the damage to the sport can no longer be repaired Otherwise, Mr. Sports Minister, you are finally on your way.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7715	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7736	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! If we're here today, 20th. Covid-19-Law, then the title says: There's 19 packages in front of it, and here's the 20th. Package for our non-profit organisations. Ladies and gentlemen of opposition, sport and culture do not in themselves exclude each other. It is important that these associations and organisations get rapid help, and this package will ensure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: 19 packages, and nothing happened!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the field of sport, one important thing is that: We have a huge network of 15 000 clubs, with over 2 million members. Every fourth in Austria is active in the sports sector, and, ladies and gentlemen, more than half a million people are volunteering, caring for 570 000 children and young people. The area of sport is not only an economic factor, but also, above all, a health factor which needs support and which, with this EUR 700 million, also receives this support. [[Abg. Steger: That's why you should have gymnastics...! Are you for that, too?- Oh, my God!]] This package brings the necessary security to our associations and associations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second area I would like to address is culture. I wish you all the best, Mrs State Secretary, in your new task! I'm sure you'll do great. I come from a small community in the country, there are different choirs, bubble music chapels, customs clubs and, and, and. Exactly these associations and organizations make up life in our communities, precisely these associations represent the identity of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, not only do these associations bring value added when it comes to investments, but they bring our society above all well-being and community feeling, and that is not to be underestimated. I am particularly pleased that today, on Friday – the day that is usually the day of sampling with many bubble music chapels – the relaxations are so far advanced that this day of sampling can take place again, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say one thing: There were very constructive discussions on this amendment between the various political groups in the House, and I would like to give you, dear Austrians, one thing: We have included the fire brigades in this package – thank you very much for that. If you, ladies and gentlemen, are voting against this package, especially from the liberals who support it, then this is a trick in the heart of 350 000 comrades. [[Abg. Steger: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Do you want to prevent the clubs from getting the money quickly, or do you agree to this package so that we can also bring this quick help?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7824	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7845	The bill is not bad; although it also has a flaw of beauty, I still come to it, but what the problem is – that has already been said –: She's just late. It's really wrong for a non-profit association that can't make any reserves and has liquidity problems – an insanity! – to wait until week 12 of the Corona legislation. It has also been confusing. It was an eternal hat and hot. The first two weeks of the existence of the hardening fund is stated on the homepage that a directive for EPCs and NGOs is in preparation, then the NGOs were gone at once, and then they were there on complaint, then there was already a legal basis for it to be clear: They're coming out. The WKO has still written on its homepage: It is a directive in preparation. It was really, really difficult and confusing and really took a long time. . I submitted my first request in March. What you have not answered, Mr Vice-Chancellor – but I believe no one has asked yet – is when the regulation will be expected. This is also very relevant, because only then can it really be done with a support. What I really want to think about is that the NGOs or NPOs we are talking about are simply incredibly diverse, because between me in my favourites and the VIDC as a cultural association, the integration house as a social institution, the club of disabled people and their friends, the voluntary fire brigades and a developmental NGOs such as the Development Assistance Club are really worlds – in the dimension, in construction, in orientation. I would really ask to keep everyone in mind. It makes me a bit fun when this regulation empowers me that there should be a maximum number of employees, maximum revenues and a maximum amount of the requested funding amount. There is really very relevant – particularly in this crisis very relevant – very large NGOs such as the Volkshilfe, the Samaritan League, the Caritas, the Red Cross. You can't let this jump over the blade! A large part of their revenue comes from donations – not from all clubs, but from some – that now completely break away. Organizations such as light for the world have a real problem now, because they have many older depositors who usually go to the bank every month and are not on the bank now. I am very afraid that it is due to what we are currently spending – no na ned! – will give savings packages. However, this need of the NPOs should not then be prolonged into further budgets, so that savings measures then take exactly these NGOs again. It is really very, very important to me to point it out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also important to me that you take the view in this regulation that there has been a lot of extra expenditure that there would not have been without Covid-19 at all. The Organization Youth A world has let people from all over the world fly back to Austria. This is serious and good, but it was costs that were, of course, not calculated anywhere and were not contractually defined. Proposing contracts: It is so incredibly relevant – that is not a question of funding – to give legal certainty in so far as many have failed to fulfil their funding contracts. I'm just saying, Libraries could not be kept open, events could not take place – from the municipality to the country, the federal government to the EU, there are contracts everywhere, and I want the Federal Government to work with the Commission to ensure flexibility and legal certainty in this respect. To conclude: I suspect that this 700 million euros donation is based on the legal opinion of Professor Meyer of the WU – it comes to this 700 million euros. This makes me a bit stupid because I know that the working group alone expects global responsibility only in the area of development aid organisations and disaster aid organisations with a failure of 45 million euros – and these are not even mentioned in Meyer's opinion. I would ask you to be really flexible over time, perhaps in terms of higher amounts of money, because it is really necessary. It is not only about 250 000 employees, it is not only about 2.6 million volunteers, but it is about identity and culture, a lot about what Austria is all about. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7912	Mr Maij-Weggen (PPE). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. – Ladies and gentlemen, I referred to the rules of business. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7937	In his speech, Mr Lindinger claimed that the Freedom Party would not agree with the amendment with the point that the promotions would also allow fire brigades. I'm actually correcting: I have already said that in a separate vote, the Freedom Party will very well agree to this Article 1, in which it stands with the firearms.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7964	Thank you. Next word: Mr Michael Seemayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e7991	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! “We are a trail later than many would have wished.” – Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that was your statement in the presentation of the aid fund for non-profit organisations. In view of the precarious situation in which many organizations already exist, which stand the water up to the neck – or above – and in the light of the fact that the circumstances were already mentioned two months earlier, the statement “a trail later on” appears rather to undermine a bit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The non-profit sector has around 250 000 employees. Many of the employees are currently doing great things in different organisations and are making an important contribution to overcoming the effects of this Covid-19 crisis, For example, think about the associations that are active in the care or also in the education of children and young people. The non-profit sector, however, is also the sector that is trying to maintain many of these working conditions, and which does not notify or release people. It is all the more important that we launch support today, and really just get on the way, because we only decide on the legal framework for a further aid fund. The framework conditions and the award criteria will be followed again by a regulation and are still lacking, of course, at the moment. Many clubs, however, are currently afraid of their existence and do not know whether they get anything from the help at all. There's a lot of security. However, if one thinks of the speed of some regulations, especially those relating to the risk groups, and if one still thinks that the regulation needs the agreement of two ministries, then hope for rapid help will disappear. Quick help would have been the best help, that has already been missed. There is now a need for help that comes; Help that comes late is often too late. Anxiety Please ask that the non-profit organizations do not die and that the help that is necessary does not come to a standstill in autumn! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8040	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word. - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Culture and continue on the agenda. [[12:51:50]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on Amendment No 527/A(E) by Mrs Großbauer, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues in the field of resumption of music samples in the Austrian country of music, in particular the safety of planning in the field of wind music (166 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 499/A(E) by Mrs Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, colleagues and colleagues on the urgent manufacture of planning, safety and near-reality requirements for the domestic arts and culture sector (167 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8092	We come to Agenda items 3 and 4, on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Andrea Kuntzl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8119	Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing, debated on two requests for better planning in the arts and culture sector. It cannot be stressed often enough that this is an area that has been particularly hard hit by the Covid measures and that it really needs active action to support them. In this sense, we will support these two requests, as we agree with the direction of these two requests. Our cultural speaker, Mr. Thomas Drozda, has prepared a petition with a number of art and cultural artists to define measures for a comprehensive rescue screen, which is now needed to really represent what concrete steps are actually needed for the arts and culture sector and would be necessary and helpful. I would like to briefly present these points: First of all, it is about creating clear and realistic requirements and legal certainty for cultural activities. It is also about securing the existence of cultural creators and creatives. One point that is particularly important to us, and one of the measures we propose here, or which we have also considered for those concerned, would be a basic guarantee for artists, at least during the Corona crisis and as long as these effects continue to exist. It would be useful to make short-term work possible for employees. It would be useful to have discount payments for artists at contract announcements because of force majeure. Some measures would be more necessary, as well as supporting the continuation of cultural institutions and creative companies and avoiding insolvency there, for example through financial compensation for missing ticket sales, which would be very helpful and important, and further measures. Fourth: The Federation must assume its ownership responsibility at federal cultural institutions. Fifth, it is about creating long-term prospects. We need a reconstruction plan for the arts and culture sector. This petition was made in the debate on the presentation of the new Secretary of State as a request from our cultural speaker. He went down a little bit. I think these are really measures that we should be discussing in a meaningful way. Mrs. State Secretary, I am very much building on you. I also hope that you will receive the necessary support from the coalition partner, because in view of the German Chancellor's statement, in which we have heard two sentences on the importance of art and culture in our country, but not a single sentence on the importance of being supportive here, I fear that it will mean drilling thick boards. – I wish you all the best, Mrs State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8171	Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8192	Madam President! Mrs. State Secretary, I'm glad you're here! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to tell you a little bit from the last Committee on Culture. That was very funny. There was a moment of great disturbance. There was an application, there stood bubble music inside and on that stood also the greens. And yes, the NEOS could do that, and the SPÖ could not really do that, and they thought: What's wrong with the greens? – Apparently there are cliché images of the urban bobos that can't start with anything like this. [[Call:This is not a cliché]] But I can assure you, I also support the bubble music from deep inner conviction and from full passion. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Why? – Because I know what joint music does with people and how incredibly important it can be. [[Abg. Worm: I love the greens!]] It's not just about the bubble music, it's also about the already mentioned choirs, it's about punk bands, it's about pop bands, it's about jazz ensembles, it's about chamber music ensembles, it's about professionals and amateurs and it's about the many, many occasions in Austria where professionals and lay people are playing together, and that's what makes the incredibly broad basis of music life in Austria, and that's also very, very important social function. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also sing myself in a choir – I tell you something personal – and I can still remember very well, you may also remember the time of the really dramatic division in our society, at the height of the refugee crisis during the Federal Presidency election: for example, that one has gone out of one another quite often, because one has already been so afraid of what one or the other will say and that one may have to start to argue. I can remember very well what always worked in this time: That was the weekly sample; because one doesn't necessarily have to talk to people with whom one might be diametrically different, but that one can sing for a while simply and let the talk stay and then somehow it goes. Yes, and it has become clear to me that we have managed to maintain relations in this country, even at a moment of the deep crisis. And I believe that this can be extremely important at this moment of crisis. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have now also experienced isolation, personal isolation, we have experienced isolation in front of the screens, we have also experienced loneliness. I am firmly convinced that we can also get out of it the joint music, so I think it's great that we can try again from now on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8260	Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified to the European Parliament and to the Council. May. Volker Tireberger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8284	Mr President. High house! Obviously, the parliamentary clubs of the government groups are not really convinced of the power of implementation and of the announcements of Kogler and Lunacek, who were still in office at the time, when the request was made, otherwise they did not need a resolution to their own federal government, in which they called for "a security of planning in the field of wind music" and "possibility to carry out music samples also with wind instruments". The scurrile in this context is that one is confined to the most important part of the bubble music, I admit, but still limited to that part. This seems a bit like a kneefall of the greens in front of the ÖVP, perhaps especially in front of Klubobmann Wöginger. Don't worry, we're going to agree to the request, it's basically good, just: As a government party, I feel a bit stupid about such a request on such a sub-sector to your own government. Although it would have been in the hands of the government so far to implement it accordingly. If you make a request, why not make an all-embracing request when it comes to planning security, but only a very limited one, as you do? We have made a comprehensive request. It might also be believed that confidence in the government members of the Greens in brass music ends. The blacks don't have fun on this theme, because the Gust Wöginger doesn't know any fun. From this point of view, we have also made a request on the same subject. For our request, Kogler and Lunacek's press conference was held on 17 February. April the starting situation. This press conference raised more questions than answers. It was important for us to end the uncertainty that exists in the art and culture scene, to create legal certainty, planning and a realistic and feasible package of measures – and this immediately. Today, the new Secretary of State, in her speech – and I found it very good – has also called for exactly the content. But I only mention the example of cinemas here: It is basically good that those who are allowed to lock up now, but there has been nothing to do with planning. What about the organizers of rock and pop concerts? They're totally hanging in the air. In this context, Skurril was also the statement of Vice Chancellor Kogler – and I quote him again because it is always so amusing: “You have to be careful not to become scurry as a government.” Then he found out: “Theoretically possible is a lot, practical is another question.” – That’s just what he left with the responsible ones. In the meantime, the events have partly become obsolete. At least such easings in the arts and culture sector have been announced. This is progress, but the regulations, the restrictions that remain are still completely overrun. For the sake of order, I would also point out to the public that this request, which we have tabled and which is likely to be rejected by the government groups today, has already received a majority in the Federal Council. The Government is therefore already bound by the content of this request. We even have the proposal on 28 November. He has, unfortunately, been rejected here in plenary on April. The art and cultural artists should know this quietly. Now we are giving the government groups a new opportunity, although they are obviously only interested in this important, but only in this part of bubble music, because they really improve and give a comprehensive request for the entire art and culture scene their approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8339	Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Tashner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8364	Mr President. High house! Dear Member of Parliament, only to the physical, if I may say so, explanation on bubble music: It was precisely about the impression that the wind instrument provides sound waves and, of course, droplets that emerge and spread viruses, but did so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] In fact, in a wind instrument, there is a standing wave. Because of this fact, one has focused on the bubble music. There was no evil intention and no other intention behind it. However, since this has already been done in this regard, I can allow myself to pick up a little more generally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I would like to say to the Secretary of State that she has received an enviable position to work for art and culture in this country. This has actually been a factor for this country. For example, I think only of Claudia Schmied, whom you know very well, an art-thinking minister of culture, who in a legendary way with the order of Dominique Meyer – in itself against the intention of an equally artistic chancellor – has made sure that the flowering time of the State Opera could continue. I can remind you of Rudolf Scholten, this incredible protagonist and promoter of Claus Peymann, who is still culturally active in the forest district, that is, in the rural area, there is literature in the fog. I can remind you of the antagonists, of Franz Morak, the great castle actor and now also rock musicians who have acted against Peymann because he has seen in it an aesthetic narrowing of culture through the German view. I can remember his boss, Wolfgang Schüssel. He is also an art-thinking person: I can remember that he can not only draw fantastic and play good cello, but I also remember when he once presented Max Weiler's gigantic images with an artistic eye. All these gave their art to time. “Time’s art,” says over the Secession portal. This is interesting right now to give their art to Corona now. Perhaps it is an interesting historical comparison, since the Salzburg Festival will indeed be Thank God – though reduced, but only in terms of quantity reduced and certainly not in terms of quality –: The Salzburg Festival celebrates its centenary anniversary. 100 years ago, the Salzburg Festival was initiated by Hugo von Hofmannsthal, Max Reinhardt and Richard Strauss. Do you know what was over in 1920? – A crisis, namely the crisis of the Spanish flu, a pandemic. So there's actually a pretty interesting parallel. “Time their art / art their freedom”. So it's over the Secession portal. “Time their art / art their freedom”, Sebastian Kurz als Bundeskanzler gave his lead in his government program, and immediately the artists of the Secession said: “Art’s freedom”, ““The freedom of art is indispensablely linked to internationality, diversity and dialogue.” [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This is quite well formulated and also politically correct, but you may have to ask further questions: Is that really true? - Actually, that's not right. You know, the freedom of art is because freedom is not connected to anything. She's free. The Secessionists knew this when they were able to settle the Secession, because the Secession was then put down by Karl Wittgenstein, the father of the great philosopher, the father of the one-armed pianist and the father of the great Virgin Margarethe. This Karl Wittgenstein – infinitely rich – has put the Secession aside and given to the artists – without any condition for anything, in complete freedom. This Karl Wittgenstein simply gave Georg Trakl as much money as an Austrian official at the time in three years without any condition. At least the freedom of art was unconditional at that time. It is today, in this present time, inconceivably difficult to transfer. Mrs. State Secretary, you actually have an insoluble task ahead of you: the freedom of art. This insoluble task will be you, as I am convinced, with power to handle with Fortune great. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8448	The next speaker is Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8472	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Today is a good day, not only because we have finally decided on the budget today, but also because from today many easings apply in many areas – especially in culture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] In many places, the classical musiprob usually takes place on a Friday; to this end, we are today talking about the cultural honorary office in Parliament, about the incredible number of music clubs, bubble music chapels, theatre groups, choirs and many more who are engaged in our country. As of today, we can be tried again, we rely very strongly on our own responsibility. We do not want to overregulate the lives of each individual, but rather to rely on measures with home mind. Thankfully, the Austrian Blasmusikverband has published on its homepage practical assistance for the sample operation, which anyone can read in front of the musiprob today. In addition, the event operation will be gradually resumed under appropriate protective measures, which will allow for the recovery of unusual spring concerts or rating games. This relaxation is an essential step for the comeback of our local life. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Thank you very much, very much to our cultural speaker Maria Großbauer, who has done great work in the last few weeks and is always a fighter for wind music and culture. It has, I think, done a lot of educational work here, because now every Member knows that a wind instrument does not air, but only sounds. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to address very briefly the previous debate on the NPO support fund of 700 million euros, which we will still decide on today. Because of the Corona crisis, many clubs had to cancel their events, so often the only source of income of an association has been lost. We therefore discussed in the committee how we can relieve associations and the honorary office in general – and who I did not understand in this debate in committee – these are NEOS. Mr Sepp Schellhorn immediately came to the committee with the proposal to tax the club's festivals – I think that would not only tax our honorary office financially immensely, but generally destroy the commitment in associations. Each one of us certainly knows many clubs and can ask himself the question who then then would assume responsibility who would become fire brigade commander, music clubobmann or section leader in sports. Our associations need safety, but they certainly no longer need regulations, and on this issue we can see who really is concerned with the honorary office, who is here in Parliament for the honorary office and who is doing this only in election times and who is adorned with it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our associations with their many volunteers are responsible for the good quality of life in our communities, they ensure cohesion – especially in times of crisis – and they also maintain strong customs. Finally, Mrs Mayer, I wish you all the best for your new task, and I look forward to working together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8558	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the rapporteurs? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Culture and continue in the completion of the agenda. [[13:12:46]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on the proposal 134/A(E) by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues, on more funds for the fair remuneration of artists (168 d.e.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8594	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Katharina Kucharovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8624	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! “Paints without numbers”, said “The Standard” in an article on 22. November 2018 – what a fitting symbolism for the situation of artists, how the editor or editor at the time had right! Let us take a look at the facts! They know the study – I have already mentioned it today and mentioned it again and again – “Social situation of art-makers and cultural intermediaries in Austria” from 2018. That was a new edition at the time, and nothing has happened since then for two years. According to this study, on average, artists and cultural artists earn 5 000 euros a year through artistic or art-mediating activity. In the field of visual art, the whole thing is even more dramatic, because it's hot 3 500 euros – that's shocking, isn't it? No one, no one, no one can live on it. The reality is therefore: Many people – in front of the curtain, speaking symbolically, but also behind it – simply have several jobs, because one cannot live by art and culture alone. This eternal back and forth – you know that once you are self-employed, once you are self-employed – has enormous effects: of course, on income – dramatically bad – but obviously also on insurance times, keyword pension, and also on the right to unemployment benefit. There is an urgent need for a reform that corresponds to the reality of life of artists. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, I call you to really act, because it is simply embarrassing that artists in Austria must live by hand in mouth! Again and again we draw attention to this situation: Artists are affected twice as often by poverty compared to all other sectors. Comforts do not help – and quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, your request is a comfort! What's that supposed to mean? It is “seeked to adapt the process of a cultural strategy “Fairpay” already launched to the requirements of the COVID-19 crisis” – what started process? We don't know anyone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I appeal again to you because you are allies in the fight against poverty: We have tabled a request which contains very specific demands. It is a budget increase, similar to the Vienna model, coupled to a fair payment – and you are against it, no one understands it anymore, and not even the people of art and culture. We're not going to let go, we're not going to be eaten with any requests without content and without a power of statement, because, symbolically speaking, Painting with numbers must finally be possible for all artists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8691	Mr Hermann Weratschnig is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8712	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Mrs Kultur State Secretary! I would like to start with the following: This time their art. Not to be forgotten: This time their socially fair working conditions, because Fair Play needs Fair Pay, and I think we clearly agree here that there needs to be a change in these conditions. In response to the Corona crisis, there is the bridging aid for artists, the hardening fund, the NPO support fund. With these and the support already defined, we want to build up and raise awareness of the need for changes in the art and culture scene in the future: What do I do as a musician without appearances, as a free actress without an ensemble, as a painter or painter without orders? What about lighting, mask and production, where much goes on a fee-based basis and there is no way to resort to short work? What about those who do not have a fixed ensemble in a theatre scene where there is a collective contract? These things have to be made clear to us, Mrs Kucharovich, because there need be changes that have not made social democracy in the last 36 years – in different government constellations – too! We will try to fulfill this claim in the House of Lords, and we will try to make an essential step in the field of art and To continue the cultural scene. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Mayer, the Secretary of State, mentioned the key to flexibility at the press conference yesterday. She also said to the bridging aid that, after the decision in Parliament, disbursements will take place as early as July, and I think that is a very essential statement and also provides security for the art and culture scene. At this point, when it comes to the development of Fair Pay, I would like to express my thanks to the stakeholders who provide excellent expertise. Be it the IG visual art, whether it be the IG Culture Austria: There is really a lot of data material and many facts there, on the basis of which we can then work. Yes, the artists have too often little support – and I would like to stress: Support is perhaps the wrong formulation, rather it is a public funding of art and culture. This is our social claim, and we need it for social co-existence. Finally, a quote by Joseph Beuys, the action artist, whom we all know: “Art = Man = Creativity = Freedom.” – Joseph Beuys thus clearly and clearly associated the concept of art and culture. I believe that this too is our task to see this together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8769	Mr Josef Schellhorn is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8794	Mr President. If the next time the vice chancellor says: in all the requested short, then get caught up on something, because then it takes a little longer. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] He's not in the hall right now, but I just wanted to mention it. - I'm going to take a short look. Your colleague, Plapolm, if you quote me, then quote me right! It would be true that I am of course in favour of the fact that club festivals have to pay exactly the same taxes as the hostesses. They work in a populist host package to ensure that the host get a few netsch, so to speak, but at the same time you want everything tax-free, namely the club festivals. As a guest business speaker, as a gastronomy, I also advocate that these associations have the same bureaucratic conditions as ours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] It must be that way, you can't distinguish it. I would just like to say that, because that is totally schizophrenic: You want to be a host host party at once, and on the other hand, damage the hostess. [[Abg. Eßl: Are we too?]] Yes, Mrs State Secretary – I just wanted to make this clear – we are of course in favour of this fair-pay story, which we welcome, but it is also about something else. [[Call:Democracy]] Mrs Blimlinger also spoke on one of the agenda items about the need for a strategy. A data situation is needed for a strategy, and this data situation could also be created with a cultural satellite account. Transparency database is called what has been demanded time and again. In this regard, the Wifo has already supplied data in the ministry – from Mr Vice-Chancellor, from your predecessor, the Secretary of State, and I would like you to publish them too, so that we can have a basis once. It is also a matter of security. As last week or especially this morning or in the early morning we decided on the budget: Inflationally adjusted, the cultural sector loses 50 million euros by 2024. We haven't yet calculated what else is lost through Corona. There will be much more, and at the same time we know that it is important to secure the Burgtheater, also from the wages, because 6 million euros will be missing in the next two years. We also need to think about allowing transparency to take place. We need this data! I ask you to publish it. Another important point: I do not know, Mrs. State Secretary, whether you have read it, but Philippe Bishop of the Pro Helvetia gave a really interesting interview in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” on the weekend – I think Bernhard Flieher interviewed him – how to carry contemporary news abroad in Switzerland. I believe that we should therefore try to establish an office for contemporary art here in Vienna in order to also bring the artists of today closer to the world. You have to come to us and we don't need cultural institutions like that - maybe we need them, but why do we need the Chamber of Commerce to do that? It can't even be done with the hardening fund! How's that going? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You should really think about choosing a similar pattern. Let's take a look at this together: What can we do for the contemporarys now? I would therefore ask again – and hopefully we will do so – that we discuss what we have to do next week. So these are the points I would ask for, and I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would be very pleased to have an approval. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8917	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Maria Smodics-Neumann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8944	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Maybe you can help me, Mrs. Kucharovich? You pointed out earlier, even in your explanation of the original request, that artists are in precarious situations, that they are not prepared to be threatened by poverty of old – all we know – and then refer to the Vienna model in the application. I looked at this Vienna model. It is a very, very good approach and a very, very good idea, but it is about employees of cultural work and cultural associations and not about the artists themselves. I think you can do better. It is a nice approach and a good approach – as far as I know, this proposal was also supported by all the parties in the Vienna Council of Municipalities – but I think that is better, and I put quite great hopes on the Secretary of State. I would like to welcome you, Mrs State Secretary, here also from my side. I am looking forward to a very good cooperation, I am also looking forward to your creativity, and with that, I can imagine it better and more reasonable. I'm glad. Good for the future work too! I wish you a lot of creativity! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[13:26]] [[13:27:00]] Vote on agenda items 2 to 5
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e8986	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall refer the vote to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Culture. We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Culture, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we go into the voting process, I ask whether the clubs need a session break. – That is obviously not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft concerning 20. COVID-19 Act in 186 of the Supplements. That's what Zarits, Mag. Blimlinger, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Ing. May. Tireberger before. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts that have not yet been voted on. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Zarits, Mr Mag. Blimlinger, Members of the European Parliament, with regard to Art. 1 Sections 1 to 3 and § 5. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who give their agreement to these parts to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Zarits, Mr Mag. Blimlinger, Members of Parliament on insertions in Article 2. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 3 of the resolution attached to the Committee's report 166 of the supplements on 'Resumption'. the music samples in the music country of Austria, in particular the planning safety in the field of brass music". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[39/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 167 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Culture to take note of its report 168 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 134/A(E). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on “Fair Pay” attached to the Committee’s report 168 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[40/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on the publication of the WIFO study on the economic importance of art and culture in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. [[41/E]] [[13:30:45]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (113d.b._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Biocidal Product Law (161 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9165	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Party (Christian - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9195	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I'm allowed to speak to the Biocidal Product Act today. Some have already asked a bit in advance: What are biocidal products? – In principle, the products are similar to plant protection products. [[Unrest in the hall.]] It's a bit loud here in the hall, but since that's still not quite insignificant, I'm going to continue. Biocidal products are used to protect people, products or materials. These include, for example, wood products, but also disinfectants, and they are used in commercial and industrial sectors as well as in the private sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9219	Wait a minute, deputies! I should like to ask for a little more peace in the room, also out of respect for those colleagues who are just at the speaker's desk. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9240	We are therefore implementing EU Regulation 528/2012, which also regulates the authorisation of such products. With this law we secure the financing of these permits and also regulate the application. It is very important to me that the certificate of expertise is also implemented, so that these products will be used by professional experts in the future, thus protecting users and the environment in the application. In a similar way to the plant protection products, I expect this careful handling of these products to reduce the toxicity in the environment, and therefore I think it is very good that we implement this law now. I am confident that this will improve the protection of the people who apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9267	The next speaker was Mrs Julia Elisabeth. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9291	Mr President. Minister of Finance! High house! In front of us is a new biocidal product law, which concerns harmonisations, supplements of data protection regulations and so on. That is all worthy of support, and that is why we will also vote in favour, but if we are talking about chemicals and talking about biocidal products, I would like to say something on the subject of pesticides, because there is nothing to agree with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Pesticide glyphosate is an expression of a pure industrial agriculture that we do not want anymore. It must be clear as soon as you talk about this topic, it's about tough profit interests. The former group Monsanto, now Bayer – there was a big takeover – made 2 billion dollars a year alone with the glycosate agent Roundup, and that's a group! Now, remember that glyphosate is the most widely used pesticides in the world, then you can see that it's about a lot of money. On the one hand – I now take the ÖVP page for demonstration purposes by chance – one wants to continue to make these profits with glyphosate. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] [[Abg. Lightenness: That's incredible!]] On the other side Page there are people who say: We don't care how much profit you make that you deserve stupid and low with glycosate, we don't want a poison that's probably carcinogenic anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I myself would now also be part of this group and perhaps also explain why: Do you know where to find glyphosate anywhere? – Glyphosate we find in our soil, in our plants, in our food, on our plates at the dining table and thus also in our bodies. Three out of ten Austrians have glyphosate in urine, it has even been found in breast milk. It is a most likely carcinogenic poison that warns even the World Health Organization. - Yes, get out of there! There are so many farmers who show how it is, namely, environmentally friendly and without this plant poison – get away with it! Let's go! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do I say here all the time? – Because, in fact, you remember, as early as December last year, you made a decision on the fact that we no longer want to have glyphosat in that country, even with the very concrete call that the competent minister – in this case ÖVP – should notify Köstinger to the EU Commission. But what is an application for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? What's that? – This can generally be asked about this budget debate: What is Parliamentaryism worth for the government at this point? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was simply not notified by the ministry – it was not notified! If the ÖVP farmers say no, then the tractor runs over it, then it is not notified; so it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The President of the National Council then jumped in and notified it, on what basis exactly, we do not yet know. You have to be almost grateful to him, and I believe that it was rather the party-political considerations to help Minister Köstinger out of the patch. [[Abg. Strasser: That was from the SPÖ, the request! That is your request, Mrs Colleague.]] – You don’t need to get upset, I’m coming to the essentials: I take note that the profit interests of the ÖVP farmers seem to be above the health of millions of people in Austria and also above our environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Berlakovich.]] – Don’t worry, I just take notice, I don’t accept it. We want to know now: What about the glyphosate ban in Austria? - We'll stay on it! Let's make Austria glycosate free! - Thank you, that's the way it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9402	Mr Walter Rauch came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9427	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are just aware of the excitement about this burning speech by Mrs Herr on glyphosate. [[Abg. Lightenness: That was a very good speech now, a really good speech!]] We are of the same opinion that we have also agreed to the proposal. However, through all the trickery in parliamentarism, this has not been achieved, which is why we have not been able to implement this ban. In the final effect, it's a passion for profit, it's a pure greed of corporations that no longer have a patent on it. Nevertheless, we will remain on it and will also try to find a solution so that there will be a corresponding ban on glycosate. The crucial factor in the environmental field is the protection of insects, the protection of the environment, the protection of people, but not the interests of corporations and industries. We will, of course, agree to this biocidal product law. This is a good law, which is also a matter of training professionals to reduce, of course, the poisons, and to standardise them, so that uniform rules for both private and commercial rules in the sense of the environment and in the sense of the insects, bees apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9461	The next speaker is Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9483	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! This item on the agenda has actually begun very consensually, but I am afraid he will not end that way, according to the statements of Mr Rauch and, above all, the colleague. These statements, particularly by Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are absolutely to be rejected, because, in her statement, she submits to farmers that agriculture would be the profit interests of large companies more important than the health of people. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely impossible to reject such a statement because that is not true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's not right. Our farmers were the ones who ensured the provision of the population during the Corona crisis, and they still do so in a great way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The former chancellor Bierlein also made it clear on the subject of glyphosate how the notification is, who is responsible and who is not. But now from the polemic back to the physical policy, to the biocidal product law: Biocides are essentially chemical substances to combat harmful organisms when materials such as wood have to be protected from, for example, infestation with microorganisms or, especially in the Corona crisis, when objects have to be disinfected or when rodents have to be destroyed. These substances destroy certain organisms and can also cause damage to humans and animals, to nature and to our environment if they do not deal properly. That is why it is important to deal with it properly. This amendment provides that appropriate guidelines may be adopted for appropriate handling, which also minimise existing risks. To a certain extent, it is probably necessary in a modern society to use chemicals and also biocidal products. As so often is simple and touching the problem is a too much or when a wrong agent is used because it can lead to undesirable side effects. I therefore also consider it important to implement, in addition to legal regulations, guidelines, directives and so on, programmes that inform and inform people and perhaps also show that one can fight pests without chemistry, especially in the private sector, especially in private gardens. I would like to refer to an action that has been very successful for more than 20 years, the action nature in the garden in Lower Austria. This is a movement that has set itself the goal of making the ecologicalisation of gardens and green spaces popular. The core criteria of this movement nature in the garden determine that gardens and green spaces without chemical-synthetic pesticides and fertilizers and without peat should be designed and maintained. This is important to preserve natural diversity, and diversity is also important when it comes to our environment. [[Abg. Vogl:... homeopathic is better?]] That is why it is also very welcome when there are upland groups, such as the country youth, the beneficial hotels, the bee pastures, and even when communities set butterfly hedges or plant dry grass on which flowering flowers can grow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] [[Abg. Cornelia Ecker: There is a request...!]] I think it must also become a matter of course in dealing with the environment, in the garden or on balconies as good as it goes to abandon such chemicals. – I thank you for your attention and wish you all the best, Mrs Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9574	Mrs Julia Elisabeth spoke in favour of an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9627	In his speech, Member Ofenauer said that I would have subordinated to farmers in the country that profit interests would be more important to them than health. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't have it for the farmers, I put it under the ÖVP, and I would do it again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9667	Mrs. Leonore Geessler spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9688	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to focus on the Biocidal Product Law again. What happens in this current draft? – Very briefly: We adapt to EU law, these are accompanying rules on a regulation. We are adapting the Biocidal Products Act to make legal adjustments due to transitional provisions. We valorize fees so that we can continue to ensure the high quality of the approval procedures in Austria. We adapt some provisions to chemical law and, of course, to data protection. Why is all this so important? . In the marketing process of products such as biocidal products, special care is needed, and a special precautionary principle is also needed. We're both putting this novelle into practice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also presented specific authorisation strategies in this novel, in order to continue to guarantee rapid procedures. We just saw in the Corona crisis how important that can be. We have made it possible for us to ensure large-scale disinfectant supply in Austria through an emergency authorisation procedure that is actually carried out within 24 hours. The quality of these procedures, the speed of these procedures, the legal basis of these procedures, we secure with the novelle to the Biocidal Product Law. I would like to thank the employees of the Department of Chemical Policy and Biocide, who are also here today, and I would like to ask you for your broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9731	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - No, that's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the presentation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and I continue to do so on the agenda. [[13:45:53]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (114 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on measures to protect against Dangers due to ionising radiation (Rain Protection Act 2020 – StrSchG 2020) (162 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9768	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Robert Laimer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9798	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The Austrian people have now taken a clear path 42 years ago, which leaves nothing missing in clarity: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As consistently as in the rejection of energy use, however, we should also be in the field of protection standards in dealing with ionising radiation, in ensuring nuclear safety and in dealing with radioactive waste. These are important areas which are necessarily regulated from the point of view of health policy, from the point of view of the environment, but also from the point of view of safety policy. The implementation of the Euratom Directive is only an occasion for the present revision of the Radiological Protection Act. It is gratifying to see that some positive content is implemented. For example, protection provisions for activities in radon protection areas are laid down or activities with naturally occurring radioactive materials are better regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity – especially in the case of a green minister – that the question of the disposal of radioactive waste in the radiation protection law from our point of view, however, is far too short. There is still no concrete plan as to how and where such an end camp should arise. When we reported this criticism to you personally in the Environment Committee weeks ago, you responded with a reference to a working group. It remains to be hoped that this working group will also be launched immediately. But let me summarize why we cannot agree to this bill: The recasting of the radiation protection law not only brings the implementation of the last Euratom Directive, but it is also used to reduce the level of protection of pregnant women, i.e. women at a very sensitive stage. I'm sure we won't be there, ladies and gentlemen. So far, pregnant women have been banned from protecting them in the radiation field, and this should and should remain so. There are groups in need of protection in Austria, and the minimization of radiation protection should, for example, in pregnant women, cause them not to be exposed to radiation or radiation, if possible. The following amendment tabled by Mr., Mr. Laimer and Mr. Genossins, which I am submitting here, deals with the radiation protection law as amended by the Federal Law No. 133/2015 and sees to the protection of the unborn child Prohibition of the activity of pregnant women in the radiation field, in surveillance and control areas. In order to take account of the need for protection of pregnant women, the activity should be allowed only for those pregnant workers who expressly wish to do so. This desire must be documented by the employer, because the protection of workers is not intended for us, unlike the governmental parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9846	Deputies! Please don't leave the speaker's desk, Mr Comrade. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I would ask you to read the request as it is presented, otherwise it cannot be filed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9882	It honors me, Mr President, from your mouth! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kugler.]] “Comrade” is always an award for me – because it comes from enjoying it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9947	You do not have to read that out again, honourable Member, that is enough of the actual text. Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e9963	You're welcome! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10042	The amendment is therefore sufficiently supported, properly introduced and under negotiation. This is what Mr Ing has to say. Martin Litschauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10069	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I am also pleased that now, after 50 years, the Radiation Protection Act is being reformed. I think that was very urgent. It contains a few very important things, and I am particularly pleased that this law enshrines the competence of this law in the Ministry of Climate Change and that we have created by this law the separation between the supervisory authority for such nuclear installations and the operator of nuclear installations. That's a first big milestone, that's going in the right direction. In addition, of course, there is still more missing, for other installations, which are currently operating and being monitored at the same time, for example, in the federal states, one might well think about delegating the area of supervision to the Ministry of Climate Change. The radon load in Austria is a very important point. After smoking, the radongas, which naturally occurs, for example, in the forest district, but also in other regions of Austria, is the second most common cause of lung cancer and not so insignificant at all. That is why, I believe, it is quite, very important that we put in place measures here so that the radon load for the Austrians is reduced, and this law lays the basis for that. With the 1.1.2021, the BMK will, among other things, take over responsibility for the research reactor. This includes very important points. I would like to say briefly that the Institute of Safety and Risk Sciences at Boku is a very important institution in Austria, because it ensures that we also have scientists who recognize themselves in the field of radiation protection and in the nuclear field. We will also need these to be taken seriously if we are to continue to develop our expertise internationally. I remind you: In the Milker Agreement, the safety defects in the Temelín AKW were mainly revealed by this risk research institute, and we really need to ensure that we continue to make these scientists available. On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the I would have liked that this amendment would perhaps have already been in committee, then we could have looked at it a little better and longer. As far as I was able to study the documents and my feedbacks are there - - – Let me speak, I have also let you talk out! [[Abg. Easy:... to the non-existent committee!]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: We should decide the budget!]] After questioning the experts, we could not determine the level of protection of pregnant women. We are very happy to look at this in the postmortem, because we are open to criticism. But as you can see, we still have some tasks, but I can't read that there has been a post-down leveling. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] That is why I ask you to agree, and we would like to talk about how we are developing this law for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10125	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10150	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the recasting of the 1969 radiation protection law deals with an area in which you have to look very closely, just as it has already been mentioned, in Austria, where we have a very strong, I say, awareness about this topic. The current transposition of the EU Directive into Austrian law brings in particular many simplifications and improvements, such as nuclear safety, protection against radon. Whatever is always a very critical issue in Austria is the safe disposal of elements, whereby we play at a very low level. We do not have nuclear power plants, because we have to dispose of masses of elements or similar, we are moving rather in the field of test reactors, of laboratory waste, which causes a small but existing quantity. A major and important issue is the protection of persons, is health. On the one hand, the law, including financial effort, brings quite a lot of improvements – improvements to the health of the persons concerned through information, through training and through all that sensitizes, including for the staff who are trained and who must work while taking this issue into account. In this case, we will also take along the SPÖ's request, but not because it is now bringing the last and best of knowledge. [[Abg. Lightness: Go!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] There's a point where you have to discuss a little bit: Whenever we want to implement improvements for certain groups of persons in Austria, the first approach is against the group concerned. As an example, I mention the over 55-year-olds: The good protection programme follows first of all that it has a negative impact on those concerned. There you have to consider how you design it in such a way that the protection you create by law will work immediately and directly. I believe, however, that the law offers this very place, not only with training and information, but also with that – as the colleague of the Greens mentioned it – that one can implement and act in the next time. I hope that we will soon be able to implement this for the people concerned, for the women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10192	Mr Yannick Shetty is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10217	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe one thing before: Because we in the opposition are already and in principle very critical of the Federal Government, I would like to say something that I have already said in the committee and what I have noticed in comparison with other committees – we say to committees in which Turkish government representatives were present –: I really appreciate it and would also like to express my gratitude to you for the fact that there is an exchange at an eye level and there is also a valuable deal with Members. [[towards Federal Minister Geessler]] However, I have already said in the Committee – and I would like to stress this again here – that we will be very careful, especially in climate and environmental policy, to see whether this is developing too much PR and a lot of show similar to those of the Turks in migration policy, or whether the measures that are really necessary are actually coming. A number of things have already been said on this item on the agenda. We consider this recast to be useful, it is the first recast of the radiation protection law at all, and it is also urgently necessary, because there is also a infringement procedure against Austria in this matter. What we see as problematic – and we discussed this in the Committee – is that there is no long-term perspective in relation to final storage. Paragraph 141, where paragraph 1 states that the final responsibility lies with Austria, is particularly problematic and paragraph 2 somehow shifts it to the European level. We would like to see greater legal certainty so that we do not get any more problems from the European Union. All in all, we find this law to be successful. We also support the SPÖ amendment, and we hope that in the near future the weaknesses identified by me, particularly in connection with the final storage, can still be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10262	Mr Franz Hörl came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10286	Mr President. Say hello to God, Mrs. Federal Minister! The law has already been described, it is relatively unspectacular, 50 years old. There are many simplifications – but of course there is also a infringement procedure on the issue of noble gas radon, and there was a need for action. This has also been the issue of the last legislative period, because, of course, people are to be protected from radon, on the one hand, but on the other hand, due to the necessary measures in the buildings, it is also at the appropriate cost. In areas with increased concentration, workers are to be protected from radioactive gas radon during working hours, but of course also people who live there. As a limit value, 300 Becquerel was adopted – that is exactly what the EU requires. For many regions with a high potential for radon due to natural geology, reference values are set, new buildings are designed to provide structural precautions and renovation work is also carried out in the case of old buildings. This, of course, costs. This is less difficult for new buildings, because with the installation of a dense floor plate and a corresponding ventilation, the gas can be managed relatively well. Some 15,000 businesses in Austria are affected, but there are also kindergartens, schools, municipal buildings and tourism companies that have to deal with this issue. That is why, of course, criticism comes from Tyrol, because we are one of the most affected federal states in this regard and the mayors are of course also looking at costs. But, of course, in Tyrol, the protection of health, Mr. Leichtfried, is always in the first place – and especially in the case of children, this applies twice and triple. [[Abg. Lightness: Yes...!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Light snow]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] My old friend and clubman of the Tyrolean People's Party Mag. Jakob Wolf is the mayor of Umhausen, one of the most affected communities. Its guiding principle is always to be part of the solution and not part of the problem – some should write behind the ears, too – but especially Umhausen shows the contradiction best on: This tourism community benefits on the one hand from the health hotel Vivea, where spas are offered, on the other hand, the buildings in this municipality are of course also heavily burdened, resulting in costs. Mrs Bundesminister, with a budget of 19.2 million euros, one should perhaps consider whether one can obtain funding for the rehabilitation measures. I am now quite disappointed: All who have been involved in the investigation committee today are not here – Mr Einwallner, Mrs Yildirim, Mrs Belakovich. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh yes!]] [[Call the FPÖ:But!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Hello!]] - Ah, she's here! Thank God; I am glad, very good! [[Call the SPÖ:Hörl! ... there too! ...for radiation protection!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] - It's also there, it's wonderful! From my point of view, there's an investigation into what's heard because we have nothing to hide. [[Call the SPÖ:... hide a lot!]] I'm glad you're on this expert commission – let yourself be time! – for crisis management in the Causa Ischgl Ronald Rohner, the former Vice-President of the OGH, could win – one who supposedly does not know Tyrol. [[Abg. Einwallner:... Committee!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Scherak:... wanted someone else, right?]] I think there is a lot to be studied, for example, an answer to the question would also be interesting, Mrs Belakovich: What has your Minister Hartinger-Klein done about this question, namely viruses, pandemics, in her ministry? [[Abg. Belakovich: To Ischgl?]] [[Call: Mr President,...]] Or is there an answer to the interesting question your clubwoman, Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner, who is an expert in this field – who, by the way, has behaved very well during the crisis, I must admit – has done so? [[towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. Loacker: A wild distraction maneuver!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] She has been a member of the Ministry since 2011, and was a minister for one and a half years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Loacker:... black national leaders...!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scherak.]] Have you ever heard of Bill Gates or of the reports in the German Bundestag? What is in your responsibility, in the time when one could have dealt with pandemics and with the care for them? [[Call the SPÖ:In all cases no spread... where you are responsible for it!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You have experts, and you demand from us – from hosts, from gastronomy, from touristists, from ski teachers – that we have failed as those doctors who have studied this. [[Interlocutory calls to the SPÖ and to Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak]] So go in your own ranks and see that you bring it there! And, Mrs. Belakovich, you should not be the Kriemhild, but the Brunhild – if you know the nibbling. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Scherak]] You shouldn't have the Furie, the Roman Rachegottin, but - [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[He-Rufe at SPÖ]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hey, what is that?]] [[Call: A Vulnerability]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Incredible! Sexist!]] [[Call the SPÖ:To the Rules of Procedure!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10595	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a call for an order for the last sentence and for the statement – you know what I mean. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Scherak: It's better, you don't clap!]] Mr Leichfried spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10641	Mr President. I would like to point out that Mr Hörl's statements on radiation protection were very interesting, but actually had nothing to do with radiation protection. [[Abg. Yildirim: Theme Failure!]] I may ask you to draw your attention to the further debate on Speakers à la Hörl, that we should speak on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10689	Ms Geessler spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10710	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would actually come back to the radiation protection law now because I have to object in a point. There was the statement that the law is not spectacular, but I think, even if it's a matter we hope we don't often need it: It is spectacular when, after 50 years, you really put a complete recast of a law on your legs. There are many years of work in that department, which is also here today, of which I also know that it is watching us now, in this vote, and therefore I am starting with a thank you for this really great amount of work and the great work that is also contained in this draft. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So what is this draft doing? . Many of the issues have already been mentioned, but I would also like to address a few points that have now been mentioned in the debate. In principle: This new version implements the basic standards Directive on radiation protection in Austria. Together with five regulations, which were already under review, the Radiation Protection Act provides for the long-term protection of human health against the dangers posed by ionising radiation. One – the really essential – part of the new regulation is the protection against the naturally occurring radioactive gas radon. There were also suggestions and comments on the measures provided for in law, regulation and at national level. From our point of view, these are good – technically justified, proportionately, balanced – in order to truly reduce the radon load in Austria and, most importantly, to better protect the health of workers and the Austrian population as a whole. That is why I would also like to address the issue of protection for pregnant women and breastfeeding. Of course, a high level of protection for employees in Austria is very, very important, so the proposed new regulation is also one that pursues the same objective of protection as the old scheme, namely to prevent the exposure of the infant by radioactive substances in breast milk. But what is different is that in principle it is possible – in principle – that breast-feeding women should continue to work in the areas concerned, but they must not be entrusted with work in which the inclusion of radionuclides can occur. That is to say, the level of protection, the objective of protection is the same in the recast, and the definition of the radiation areas also takes place under very conservative assumptions. I would also like to say here that this is a very, very important issue for me. We have implemented this in this novel with a little more flexibility than before, but with the same objective of protection. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Straster.]] The second point: In radiological emergencies, we have made the responsibilities clearer – that was the point on which I addressed earlier. I hope that the case of a large-scale accident in a nuclear power plant at our border will not occur, but if, now, it is clear who is responsible, namely the Federal Ministry I may stand for, both for the assessment of the situation and for the establishment of official protection measures. In the case of small-scale issues, the heads of state are responsible. – This is a practice that has already been planned, but is now also laid down by law. The responsibilities for nuclear safety have also been bundled. The regulatory regulation of the research reactor Seibersdorf is now transferred to my place of business. This is also really an important, necessary first step towards pooling the currently very fragmented responsibilities in radiation protection. This leads to the waste management programme, which was also discussed twice in the debate. There was a decision on the 2018 National Disposal Programme. I have announced the working group in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the invitations to the working group go forward before the summer. I can assure you that this issue will be dealt with by us with all the necessary seriality that this issue needs, even though we, even though we have been mentioned in the debate, are lucky not to have to dispose of highly radioactive waste. This is, of course, an issue that we must resolve well in Austria too. The present revision of the Radiation Protection Act is also supplemented by five implementing regulations, which were already under review. On the basis of the opinions received, we will review the drafts once again. To this end, the department is also in close contact with the federal states, municipalities, chambers and other stakeholders who have also sent feedback questions. The fifth implementing regulation, which is the Medical Radiation Regulation, is now to be amended. The health sector will be consulted soon, and then all five implementing regulations under the 2020 radiation protection law are in place. This could then create a completely new radiation protection right on 1st. I can also ask for your support to enter into force on August 2020.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10781	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the presentation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and I continue to do so on the agenda. [[14:11:30]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 521/A(E) by Dr Astrid Rössler, Johannes Jessschlager, colleagues on the financing of a Biodiversity Fund for the implementation of the Biodiversity Strategy (163d.) [[9. Point]] Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 449/A(E) by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on ensuring the funding of the Biodiversity Fund in the budget for 2020 (164b) [[10. Point]] Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 471/A(E) by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on emergency plan against species deaths in Austrian rivers, lakes and wetlands (165 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10856	We now come to points 8 to 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Andreas Kollross. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10886	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. One should, I think, not pay too much attention to Mr Hörl, but perhaps a comment on his Ischglausfluss. One almost has the impression that the SPÖ is to blame for the events in Ischgl and not the economic interest of so many tourism companies. [[Call the ÖVP: on the matter!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] It is likely that if Mr. Nehammer researches a little, one will find that it is not the SPÖ, but the SPÖ Vienna, and if Mr. Federal Chancellor is still researching a little more, he will find that there has been a red network in Ischgl 15 years ago and that they are actually responsible for the spread of the virus throughout Europe. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Scherak]] [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the Deputies of Smoking and Scherak.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... make an actual correction!]] On the real issue, on the Biodiversity Fund, which we decide today: Of course, we welcome this in principle, but even more would we welcome it if it were not just an announcement, but if the Biodiversity Fund had also found its way into the budget. [[Abg. Jewellery:... now decide!]] On the other hand, it is possible to quote Luke's resetarits with this budget and with this Minister of Finance: “It is already meaty.” – This probably also applies to this question. I would like to address – I believe that it is important that we get to grips with the announcement – with a particular story, namely the death of insects and the need for measures in this regard. We know that there are around 40,000 species of insects, and we also know that about a third of them are now at risk. We know above all that this is not in itself a natural development, but, of course, a man-made species dying. I therefore believe that it is important that we deal with many small girls on this issue. First of all, we need an insect monitoring in our country so that we can really look at it more closely. Secondly, it really needs an end to the use of pesticides. Mr President, at another item on the agenda, I have already mentioned the unworthy feature of the ban on glycosate. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Smoking.]] Finally, effective measures are needed on the question of flowering strips. I am also mayor, as is known, and I know and experience every year that the field paths are getting smaller, because at the same time the fields are getting bigger. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Sometimes you are looking for some kind of field path, and then you have to correct it again. [[Abg. Jewel beaters:... get bigger and bigger!]] I don't mean that now as a criticism, I understand, of course: If you want flowering strips, you also have to pay the price of agriculture. I understand that, but there's finally something done, and then you finally have to do it instead of just announce it. One last point: It is also, of course, the question of the sealing of the ground. I think it's about looking at the following question, discussing them – and I'm saying that now, as mayor: Why do so many regions get out of the ground? Why is this different in other communities? – Because we sometimes have a city-country gap, because there are ultimately many who move from regions that are structurally weak elsewhere. I therefore believe that when we debate the seal, we must also, above all, discuss how to make life more viable again in structurally weak regions, so that migration does not take place. Otherwise you won't get under control of the seal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e10991	Mrs Astrid Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11013	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The issue of biodiversity has already been discussed in detail in the committees, and I would like to thank once again for the broad consensus and also for the willingness to support the proposals together. I am pleased that there is still a common application for bee and insect deaths today. This shows that this topic has arrived. For the most part, one looks at biodiversity with the focus on numbers – so many percent of species, so many percent of habitats are at risk. If you do it the other way around and ask where it gets better, then the answer is unfortunately: only at 4 percent. Thus, only 4 percent of improvements have occurred in the European Union's biodiversity decade 2010 to 2020, but 20 percent of species have worsened the situation and even 30 percent of habitats. The trend is therefore a very, very tight level, and we must realize that the measures need to be better. The causes are relatively quick to list: Land sealing, land loss, land recycling, of course also pollutant entries, uses. It is relatively clear what the causes are. But: What is the benefit of ecosystems? Is it a hobby of biologists to count species, or is there a benefit, an advantage behind it that is of great importance to society as a whole? – It is obvious when pollinating in fruitmaking. The cleaning of drinking water and the filtering of drinking water through our soils are an absolutely vital function of intact ecosystems. Flood buffer from soils: The quality of the soil determines the retention, the delayed delivery of the water ensures the protection of our settlements. Not least the recreation function, especially in the nearby recreation rooms, and the function for the sport, from swimming to mountain sports. But of course we also benefit from the wonderful beauty of our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] There is the direct benefit for tourism, one sees flowering meadows on every tourism prospectus. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] However, I would like to make another point of view: The Austrian Federal Forest, which manages relatively many areas, once asked the exciting question: What do people living in Austria connect with Austria, what does that show up with them? That was exciting. What does it show when you think of the country of Austria? - Yes. [[Call the FPÖ:Mountain!]] The top four were: Mountains, forests, lakes – lakes were fourth in place, because third was the comfort. What a wonderful description of our country: Mountains, forests, lakes! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Next – now come again such beautiful things –: Mozart and Donauwalzer in the squares four and five, skiing and folk music on six and seven, behind hospitality, Heuriger, coffee house and then the dialects, the regional characteristics. This really shows us the diversity of a society, the diversity of a landscape and also the diversity – sometimes very rough diversity – in a parliament, in the parliamentary debate, with storms and storms, but what is mutually complementary is also in exchange, which also works together, the interaction in nature is at least as important and vital as the cooperation in a good parliament, a good parliamentary culture, and therefore I am very pleased that a new consensus has been reached today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11064	The next speaker is Mr Walter Rauch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11089	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Rössler, I can stress a hundred percent of what you have just said in your conclusions, but nevertheless: With your corona measures you have destroyed a lot of this culture and hospitality in recent weeks and months. That too must be put to the fore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] – I know that touches you in a certain way deeper than this area, I understand. [[towards Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic]] [[towards ÖVP]] All three requests that we are discussing are about the deaths of species, biodiversity and the protection of the ecosystem, and I am very grateful and very glad that we have managed to achieve a joint resolution across all political groups, which I now wish to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am very grateful for that. The Committee did not sound so harmonious, monotonous. Because I'm just looking at bees-niki, Mr. Berlakovich: This is an old story, but one can also stumble on this issue, and it is therefore all the more important to protect the ecosystem in a certain way. I am pleased that we have reached a unanimous decision here. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11265	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Michael Bernhard came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11292	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It's about biodiversity, it's about biodiversity in our country. I would like to start with a point that NEOS is always particularly important to us. We are very happy to talk about gender equality, and it is very important to us. If you think about the value of nature and also the diversity of biodiversity in our country about generation-righteousness, then you have to state very clearly: The only thing that is generation-friendly is if we leave the diversity of species to at least the extent to which we have found it. Everything else is not generation-friendly, everything else is selfish. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Sir.]] The previous speaker, Mrs Rössler, said that biodiversity is often about numbers. That is, I think, more important at the moment than talking about beauty in itself, because we are far away from being generation-friendly. We are still very selfish right now. We as NEOS are a very young parliamentary club. I'm pretty sure that 1986 wasn't everyone who's sitting here today. Since 1986 – at that time I was five years old – since the time I probably played in the sand box, the year of Chernobyl, there has been a 70 percent decline in wild animals. If you break it down and look at the insects, the fish in the rivers and lakes, you can see that it is usually not better there. This is a situation in which we really need to talk about figures and take very concrete measures. If you look at what is the cause of this generational injustice that exists at present, you can say: This is essentially the destruction of habitat, for various reasons and mostly for unnecessary reasons, of a form of responsibility which is often to be found. This is – you all know that this is a great concern to me – when it comes to the issue of land use and surface sealing. We seal most of the areas across Europe, we have one of the highest shopping centers, and it is not much better in the circulars either. They wonder if we need all of this and if it is worth it, that we leave a world that is less generation-friendly than those we have found. I now come to the requests we are discussing today. This is the biodiversity fund. I have proposed to my group that this measure, which can also be found in the government programme, be budgeted from 2020 onwards. ÖVP and Greens voted against it, making it the year 2021. Nevertheless, we support your request because 2021 is better than never before, but 2020 would have been better than 2021. The other point – and I am delighted and I would like to thank you too, because there is a new culture in the Environment Committee –: A request was accepted by me, slightly modified and then adopted by the majority of the government in the Committee on the Environment. This was about the emergency plan against species dying in our rivers and lakes. We are pleased to see that we work together constructively and adopt a whole plan of action. However, I do not want to hide that it makes us unhappy that the measures for those areas that are particularly critical, namely the effects of agriculture, which uses too many pesticides and too many nitrates, on biodiversity in rivers and lakes. I think there's a little air up there. All in all, I feel that we are already going a bit in the right direction, but the pace is far too slow to restore generation justice within the duration of our generation, so I expect more commitment in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11350	Ms Leonore Geessler spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11371	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Without a doubt, the biodiversity crisis in addition to the climate crisis is the second major environmental challenge of our time. Astrid Rössler has described very well what the difficulties are, but also what the value of biodiversity is for all of us. I would like to add one point: She also has a lot to do with health. Especially in times of a covid pandemic, it may be important to remember that almost two thirds of all infectious diseases have been transmitted from animals to humans and that the spread of the corona virus is very likely to originate on a wildlife market in China. In the government programme, biodiversity protection has a large area. There is also a strong backwind for biodiversity protection at EU level. The recently published EU Biodiversity Strategy is an important contribution to the implementation of the Green Deal. In the case of the causes, it does not save difficult issues, it sets very specific objectives. In Austria too, we want to achieve exactly that with the new biodiversity strategy 2030, namely: Conservation of biodiversity – and Austria is one of the most diverse countries in Central Europe. We also want to make sufficient resources available as a central condition for this. The strategy development process has already been launched. In this context, we can also better allocate the financing of concrete measures. We will try to implement this best in the next budgetary negotiations. It's clear: A comprehensive package on biodiversity protection needs many aspects. Of course, it is also necessary to ensure the protection of biodiversity in the agricultural policy. This will have to play a crucial role in the new rural programme. Similarly, the federal nature protection budgets play an important role in this area, but of course we are trying to make our contribution where it goes. I would like to inform you briefly about two very up-to-date measures that we have taken in the German Federal Government or the Federal Government: We have been able to release 1.5 million euros for the national parks, which are also affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. There is a lack of revenue due to non-conventional tours due to out-of-date mediation programmes, so there is a significant loss of revenue. We can do this well with these resources and also start mediation programmes and nature conservation projects in the National Parks. As a Federal Government, we have also been able to provide 200 million euros for water ecological measures for the first time since 2015. These are measures that make sense not only in the context of the protection of diversity and the preservation of diversity, which is a value in itself, but also in terms of economic policy. For all these measures and for all the various measures that we will still need in order to preserve the natural diversity in Austria, all must take one line: the Federation, the countries, the communities, the different natural users and also the High House. That is why I am very pleased that today there are numerous applications that are being carried together, because the challenge is great and we will only be able to deal with them together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11422	Mr Peter Schmiedlechner is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11452	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To Mr Rössler: Guests come because of the beautiful environment and because of the beautiful landscape. In doing so, you should not forget who lives this beautiful landscape and who makes it look the way it looks. [[Abg. Easy: The Hörl!]] The Hörl, yes, the cable car industry! [[Rejoicing with representatives of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] The local nature is at our heart, and therefore biodiversity must be preserved. It will only go together: Biotope, habitat, biotones, the community of plants, animals and humans is the same ecosystem. As a farmer, you live with nature and are interested in protecting it to pass it on to the offspring. Agriculture is already doing a lot to preserve biodiversity, but I am absolutely in favour of further measures being taken. However, it cannot be that our farmers must produce at world market prices and then continue to be regulated with new requirements and guidelines. This would be a huge competitive disadvantage and would completely destroy local agriculture. Therefore: Create incentives instead of forcing something! However, we also need to think about how federal, state and local authorities can take measures to promote biodiversity, as well as garden owners. Nevertheless, your request makes you feel a little bit that you just want to cover up past inactivity. In Austria, half of all amphibians, reptiles and fish and a third of all birds are at great risk, and there is a need for action. Perhaps you should think about how far you yourself or some of the self-proclaimed animal protectors owe it. A resettlement, but also the permanent protection of, for example, fish egrets, fish otters, goose saws, cormorants, crows and other predators, are measures that have caused devastating damage. Perhaps you will think about it once, because a little bit of intervention and measures are being taken to achieve a certain degree of inventory. [[Abg. Obernoster: You forgot the wolf!]] I believe that we must be careful that we will also make a fisheries industry possible in the future, but also hydropower use. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I can only say: Yes to biodiversity, but with brain and house mind!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11525	The next speaker is Mr Johannes Juryenschlager. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11549	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Brain and home mind – thank you for the keyword: I think it's just with biodiversity that we see this when we look at the fields in Austria. Where we have many programmes for biodiversity and greening, we also need resources such as glyphosate, so that we can work accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In a speech on a previous item on the agenda, Mrs Herr has accused the farmers in Austria of taking advantage of health. That is what we are going to consider in the Minutes. If you meant the farmers, I would ask you to apologize. If, as you have then improved it, you have meant that the ÖVP farmers were farmers, then I may point out that this is at least 85 percent of the whole group in my federal state, according to the last election of interests. If you said so, I ask you to apologize to them too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you have generally meant the ÖVP or specifically our club, then I must tell you that this is a claim that does not make everyone. I believe that the very example of Corona shows us very clearly how hard it was for all here in view of the measures we have taken. It was a matter of putting health above all else, and in recent days we have also been negotiating hard on the budget, how we are setting up measures to finally resolve and alleviate economic derailments and rejections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] I would not, even in such a controversial debate, put any Member of the other political groups under any obligation to take advantage of health. You have to apologize to our club! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Do you know what that is? – In common, one would say it is uncooperative. The comrades do not have the colleagues, so I have thought about what the word is called with comrades, but “unossy” does not work. – There is only inedible, but of course it would not happen. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] It is also not right that it was the then Minister of Agriculture Elisabeth Köstinger, because it was the transitional chancellor Bierlein, who had been promised across all party borders, who said that this is a notification fee, which does not work. It is precisely for those parties who are subject to international solidarity, which cannot be quick enough for international European solidarity funds to move our money to other European countries, should European rules no longer apply? You also have to accept and respect that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now on the topic of biodiversity and the Biodiversity Fund: I think it is very, very important that we also understand how to reconcile nature with our needs of the settlement economy and agriculture. I am very, very glad that we are now able to create something that will allow us to move on one step further in the framework of the biodiversity strategy. The common agricultural policy of the European Union will also be further developed with the Green Deal. I think it is very essential to also recognize the need to re-establish small regional ecosystems. Whether it is drought or not it is also the question of biodiversity – here we see that climate change is a huge challenge. On the one hand, in the plant and animal world, we may even see species that we have not yet had, that is, an enrichment of biodiversity. But these are in competition with species that are already here, and often push them away when we think of the orange naked snails from the Asian area or of Ragweed, this rather aggressive weed. We also see that we are coming to an area in which we have to weigh, but we also have to further develop the types of culture. Especially in the case of biodiversity, it turns out very quickly that plant protection – we want to achieve that with biodiversity! – is also no contradiction to the preservation of the plant world. We also have a huge problem in the cultivation of sugar beet, in the cultivation of earth apples, or when finally the borch beetle calamities are getting more and more around. This also takes biodiversity from the entire ecosystem, and we also need appropriate answers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, we have many cross-sectional features in which this issue, as I believe, can be developed well. It is also under negotiation with the Renewable Development Act, and I believe that the great opportunity of photovoltaics must be used so that we can also use the potential of renewable energy in our country, solar energy. However, we must be very careful when we go to the large area. There must be no megasolar fields, as we also need to maintain biodiversity. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Smoking.]] There is the possibility of double use with agro-PV systems, so to speak, and I ask that we make the framework so that we can make renewable energy available in accordance with nature.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11634	Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11658	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the National Council! Oh, my God! The government has set itself as a major objective of environmental protection, climate protection and biodiversity, and we know that the loss of biodiversity and climate change are equally important globally. That is why we must also focus on this. In the agricultural cultural landscape we have many meadows, fields, pastures, ponds and shores, for which there are really very good regulations and detailed regulations regarding use and protection. Our farmers – if I only take all our farmers in the forest district – live and maintain biodiversity in their fields and in their farms. They are those who are also sustainable for the next generation and strive to maintain the foundation of the soil: for a future in diversity. There is also a fauna and flora with very important living beings. As a runner, I can only tell you: When you walk through the area in spring and hear the bees humming, see how the beetles crawl, how the humps and butterflies fly, and the beauty and variety of flowers, you can see that this is a truly wonderful world that needs to be preserved and improved. [[Abg. Loacker: Does that apply to the wolf too?- Oh, my God!]] Especially in the peripheral areas there are many valuable animals and flowers. The applications discussed here today aim to preserve this, and this is important, because often by too much lawn mowing or mulch the plants are so tenderly mowed that they cannot sow, and already a plant world has been lost again, and the animals also do not receive the necessary food base. Therefore, it is important to raise awareness: for proper care at the right location. The Biodiversity Fund should provide an opportunity to finance such protection measures, in addition to the common agricultural policy. I think it is good to maintain biodiversity – and that with an economic eye - because this brings a benefit to the entire animal and plant world and, of course, to humans. In this sense: More biodiversity!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11697	Mr Nikolaus Principal of the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11721	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can choose access to this subject as a practical farmer. I've been dealing with agriculture for more than 40 years. If you are talking about biodiversity, I think you should look at how some things change. I deliberately say: I have a small farm with 10 hectares of meadows and 8 hectares of forest in the small town of St. Nikola on the Danube. We're in a mountainous area, and it's a lush, rocky ground. When the environmental programme came in 1995, I immediately went out to spread even a deca trade fertiliser. In essence, we have around 0.5 to 0.7 GVE/ha, i.e. livestock units per hectare, i.e. extensive livestock farming. The plant population has changed considerably over the 25 years, but very to the detriment – very to the detriment! We're dealing with sheepry at home. When I drove the sheep to pasture in the 1990s, they ate much better than now, because it doesn't help: When it is dry, there is no water, no fertilizer in the soil, and then only more such plants as sheepskins or ruminant grass stand and no meadow swing, no smooth-threat, no red clothes, no Timothy grass and so on, then the vipers really do not want to eat. That means: Only the extension does not help us in biodiversity at all. In fact, we have to supply the soil well with fertilizers and use the plants at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't think so if we only have Raigras and drive full-gas with it. But we already have to take note, only extension is not yet a solution – and there it is grudging whether organic farmers or conventional farmers are operating, that is always the same. It also plays an essential role in the ability to store water. Especially when I think about my mill district or the forest district: In the years when it is dry – and we have a dry year each year since 2017 with little rain – we need to see that the soil is well fertilized. In reality, this also contributes to biodiversity. I do not understand that there are proposals from the European Union to remove areas from production – where we import so much protein, whether in the direction of feeding or food! Let us produce it in Europe! Or we're thinking of the energy, the addition of ethanol: Using regional food is actually the best contribution to biodiversity that the consumer can make. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A number that you can continue to say – we like to talk about ecological footprints –: One kilo of beef in Austria produces good 10 kilos of CO2, the beef from South America, on the other hand, 84 kilos of CO2. [[Call the FPÖ: Live free trade!]] The cultural landscape has to be kept open, so the tourists come to Austria. We receive cultural landscape through rural management – not because we leave nature to ourselves, but because we manage and maintain it. That's why people come, and it's also ecologically the best. Think of the CO2 binding in the forest! If we leave him, he has only one tenth of the CO2 binding on a managed forest. If we have a soil with a real plant stock, the washing in the direction of nitrate is much less. Therefore: Practicer instead of theorists, and ultimately: Use your home mind, make a sustainable economy and work eco-socially!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11767	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11791	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If a politician or a politician wants to implement her or her concerns, it is very helpful if large parts of the population are behind the concern. Environmentalists face a special challenge, because ecosystems are very complex. Climate protection issues, nature conservation issues are not easy to present. That makes it difficult. How to take the people? How enthusiastic are people for their concerns, so that they can be implemented? Especially when it comes to biodiversity, this becomes quite clear, because biodiversity is more than biodiversity, biodiversity is much more complex. It is about genetic diversity and also about the number of ecosystems, starting from the Moors to other habitats, that is, it is very comprehensive. The major challenge of media simplification as an environmental politician, environmental policyist, is to simplify its concerns in such a way that it can be implemented. Then a lot of things will be lost. I am saying this because the biodiversity debates have so far been held: The farmers – I simplify here – are guilty that there are fewer insects. - That's wrong. This is why we have in agriculture the reflection of contrasting, namely that we are referring to what is fully understood. I therefore really felt it very refreshing at the last environmental committee meeting that we started to discuss the issue of biodiversity and the protection of biodiversity much wider. Mrs Rössler, you have made the start, you have shown this subject with a lot of empathy and very broad, very idealistic – it is good if you have this in politics, and I thank you for it, because only then can we really see substantial things, instead of discussing: organic is good, conventional is evil; Eating vegetables is good, eating meat is bad. By the way, biodiversity scientists also have the problem. For example, they say: With spiders that are useful insects, they can't have much success because most people don't feel spiders are particularly nice, but dolphins are sweet, and dolphins want to protect everyone. That is, we have to get through this – as we and other political groups have discussed here today – that we are discussing the subject widely, because, of course, agriculture has a function in it, but the fact is that global habitats are massively destroyed: from the deforestation of forests – not only in South America, also elsewhere – from the spread of cities – 30 years ago, the cities, the urban settlements were half as large as today; there has been violent action – up to CO2 transmission and many other things. Therefore, I think it is very positive that we are beginning to protect our biodiversity piece by piece. One thing I would like to say on my own, on Austrian matter: We are trying to maintain this from the point of view of agriculture. I don't want to talk about it, but through the environmental programme, for example, we're trying to protect old pet breeds – and that's also a part of biodiversity – to prevent farm animal breeds from dying out and being no longer used, or also Ecosystems. We want to continue this over the next period of the common agricultural policy, but also in the course of other biodiversity programmes, as they do many communities. Mr Kollross mentioned it: Many mayors, as they sit here, are trying to create such flowering areas, butterfly meadows and the like in order to contribute to a functioning ecosystem in this mosaic. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] Together we'll do that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11842	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? – That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote on these points to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on the Environment. [[14:50:58]] Vote on agenda items 6 to 10
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e11870	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before entering the voting process, I ask: Do the clubs want a session break? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law amending the Biocidal Product Act, including title and entry into 113 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft Radiological Protection Act 2020 in 114 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning § 11. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, the request is accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now come to the vote on item 8, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 163 of the Supplements on 'Financing a Biodiversity Fund for the implementation of the Biodiversity Strategy'. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[42/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Walter Rauch, Dr Astrid Rössler, Mr Johannes Juryenschlager, Mr Bernhard, Mr Julia Elisabeth Herr, colleagues on the action plan against the death of bees and insects. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. [[43/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 164 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We are now voting on item 10 of the resolution on the emergency plan against species deaths in Austrian rivers, lakes and wetlands annexed to the Committee's report 165 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[44/E]] [[14:54:02]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 160/A(E) by Mr Cornelia Ecker, colleagues, on the introduction of a comprehensive 'bio-return' in Austrian agriculture (188 d.a.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 451/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, colleagues and colleagues on the commitment of the Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism to reduce the use of chemical-syntthetic plant protection products for the protection of biodiversity; and the water and the revision of the National Action Plan on the sustainable use of plant protection products 2017-2021 (189 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 450/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Double Farmer, colleagues and colleagues on package of measures to strengthen the agricultural crisis response (190 d.a.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment No 500/A(E) by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner, Members and colleagues on the fight against the footing (191d)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12103	We shall now proceed to items 11 to 14 on the agenda, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Cornelia Ecker has now been mentioned. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12133	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Unfortunately, the promotion of organic farming for this government is only a lip commitment, we know since the government programme has been in place. Many SPÖ initiatives to expand organic farming have either been postponed or rejected. This request for the introduction of a comprehensive 'bio-return' was also rejected by ÖVP and Greens in the last committee. This is more than sad, because you say so No to the medium-term objective of reaching over 50 percent of organic farming in Austria. They say no to the sustainable reduction of pesticides exposure and mineral nitrogen fertilisation. They say yes to the use of dangerous pesticides, probably knowing that they harm people and also many insects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They therefore do not want to support farmers in the transition from conventional to organic. They say no to climate protection and also to environmental protection in agriculture. Although ÖVP and Greens tried with their own request to cover up this negative attitude in the Committee, those who have read the request know: Unfortunately, it does not include any concrete measures, no concrete objectives. It contains empty flakes, empty phrases – a distraction maneuver, I would mean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Are you actually aware that in your application the word pesticides reduction does not occur once? At the end of the day, I'm appealing to the Greens: Why do you oppose the interests of your voters? Why don't you join us, the Social Democracy, and agree to our request? This would allow you to achieve more in organic farming, more climate protection in agriculture and also the conservation of biodiversity. Since conservation of biodiversity plays such a central role in our ecosystem, I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A sentence to the colleague Ofenauer of the ÖVP, who is devoted to the speeches from the beautiful sentences, how important it is to preserve flowering strips and biodiversity in Austria: Voices To this request?! – It is easy to stand here and find flowery words, and to reject and postpone everything in the Committee. I really think this is very, very sorry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12267	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12294	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much for the interesting requests – and also contributions, Mrs Colleague. But I can say in the opening: Applications describing the so-called ongoing projects or milestones that we have already achieved, I think I am on and on – how can I describe them? – absolute, and that is why we reject it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In return, however, this gives us the opportunity to describe these ongoing projects and also the milestones that have already been achieved, and the objectives we have. Biotransmitter: The question is where to turn it. 25 percent of the land of farmers, as far as the number of farms is concerned, is already organically managed, in your native country of Salzburg, Mrs. Collaborine, it is almost 50 percent. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] – So this development is really a success story, and yes, there is a biomarket in Austria, but it is limited, and therefore organic production is an interesting export hit. If you look into the markets, you just have to watch out: How much is consumed at home and how much abroad and how much perhaps even on another continent of this world? So it is in total a good development that benefits the supply of food in Austria, but that also ensures us the quality of life. Finally, all these things are good and important, but it must also be linked to the fact that farmers in the rural family farms have an economic basis – and in this context, too, there is a good development in most biological industries. Bio and conventional are often discussed very emotionally and also controversially, and I now mention two examples of how, I think, one should really discuss this issue. One is scientific access. Now in the Corona crisis, there were plenty of Fakenevs, scientific findings, statements from doctors were questioned – a bad development. On the other hand, we call on climate policy to listen to science. Now on phytosanitary protection, Mrs Colleague: There is our access to take note of and appreciate scientific knowledge from independent authorities. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] My colleague is no longer here. [[Abg. Lighten: (showing on the last row) There it is.]] If you are afraid of these much discussed plant protection products in Austria, then the best method is to buy Austrian quality because Austrian food is 100% glycosate-free. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Light peace: Is it here or not?]] The second basis on which we should discuss are laws, and they are also strict in Austria: Environment, animal welfare, food, residues – all this is very well organized in us, and also in international comparison we have the cleanest food in the world. This scientific and legal access should then be the basis for the free choice of farmers – on the one hand – based on scientific knowledge and on laws. One makes it conventional, the other makes it biological. On the other hand, this basis should also induce a free choice among consumers whether they consume a conventional product or a biological product. This should be possible in an open discourse, in a free society in and for itself. I believe that this cooperation between conventional and organic agriculture in Austria works, that it is possible, and we want to continue this successful path in all consequence. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12370	Member of the Forgeblechner is hereby reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12391	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! When the sun laughs with us, it has made the ÖVP, there is rain, storm and snow, it was definitely the FPÖ – or another opposition party. [[Rejoicing, congratulation and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We in Austria are proud of our farms, they do excellent work; whether organic or not: Austrian agriculture has very high standards, and thus we produce, even conventional farms, at a high level of animal welfare and environmental protection. There must be a co-existence, a co-existence of traditional and organic agriculture. Every farmer must be able to decide for himself how he wants to produce. Especially in the bio sector, there are currently too many problems. Not only the drought, but also the new bioregulation puts a lot of farmers in distress, many do not just get out of organic, no, they completely shut down their farms. With regard to crisis-resilient agriculture: Of course, this is a very important issue, ladies and gentlemen. Agriculture has shown what it can do in the crisis. However, it has also deserved recognition, and we should make sure that agriculture receives proper prices. That's where we're called. Where are the ÖVP Farmers' Associations? [[Call the ÖVP:Here!]] I'm just reminding you: Today, we have voted on three requests for the discharge of farmers, unfortunately, the ÖVP has fallen asleep. You probably did not know this in the face of the budget chaos and voted against the peasantry and the discharges. Mr Strasser, in your speech on the agricultural budget, you need help against food trafficking, you need help to implement something for farmers. – We are willing to help you, I am only surprised that the opposition’s applications are always postponed or rejected. Our proposals would help farmers. [[Call the ÖVP: Are you sure?]] Always before the elections they have to go out, the peasants, they have to go out to the farmers, and then they will talk about what they did not do all they did, and will be done to the farmers redeployment and what I know I still promise everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] Hardly sit in here, you can't remember what you promised outside. Ladies and gentlemen! Every farm that works with food has strict conditions in relation to the adequate control of certain rodents and harmful animals. Last year, there was a massive field mouse display in the eastern wine district. The field mice eat various cultures – cereals, corn, pumpkin, beetroots, sunflowers, and even marilla trees and Wine became the victim of these animals. The harvest losses were dramatic, sometimes even the total loss. In this year, the situation threatens to repeat due to the lukewarm winter, the increasing dryness, the expected heat days and the extreme propagation rate of the field mice. We would be obliged to act in good time. As a result of the numerous oil regulations, the greening of arable land in different varieties, such as mulch seed, for which farmers receive a premium, the soil processing is largely absent. However, many farms cannot give up this support for economic reasons, so it is not possible to get out of the funding programme, no variant. Farmers must be given the opportunity to fight this plague without having to fear AMA's control, and therefore my request to support farmers, regionally and time-limited. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is not legally possible! Such a fool!]] These reliefs would help to bring about a solution quickly, and I therefore hope that you will be supported, ladies and gentlemen. Don't say that's not possible! It has been amended without warning the organic regulation, the pasture regulation, without warning, the Öpul programme has been changed under the period, the conditions for the farmers have been changed, so don't say that would not be possible! If you want, it is possible, with us it is possible. Support You're asking for us! Dear ÖVP, stop your staging policy, start acting! For the farmers it is not five to twelve, it is five after twelve. Many farms have already locked up, more farms are locked. Let's finally do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12474	Is Member Vogl here? – Mr Vogl spoke of an actual correction. – You know the essence of an actual correction. [[Call: Who knows them]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12508	Mr Strasser said in his speech that the Austrian food is 100% glycosate-free. - That's wrong. The right thing is: Glyphosate can be found in lentils, flour, bread, water and thus also in beer.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12536	Mrs Vogluer has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12567	Gospod President! Mr President. Spoštovani kolegi in kolegice! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Austria is a biopattern, it cannot be emphasized often enough, and I am glad that all parties do so. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The biowend is taking place, we are in the middle of it, Mr Ecker. [[Abg. Cornelia Ecker: What are your goals?]] We have the situation that we obtain two new organic farms every day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] I myself came from a farm that was still conventional in 1970 and only in 2000 took the step towards organic farming. From the point of view of the genetics, I know that bio will become more if you can take the step out of conventional agriculture, if you also trust this step and get into the bio-agricultural sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Many of us here, who are dealing with agriculture, have experienced this. Especially in the proposal we have tabled to the Committee with Mr Strasser, we have laid the foundation stone for the fact that this entry into the bio-agricultural sector can always succeed in ensuring that there is no cover, but that it is always possible to get into the biological economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cornelia Ecker.]] 26 percent of the area in Austria is managed organically. 24 000 farms provide this area, which makes a significant contribution to biodiversity. This is a good development for Austria, and it also needs it, because in the end we have a good strategic path with the Biodiversity Strategy and with the Farm-to-Fork Strategy in front of us, in which we will certainly achieve further expansion and also find a confirmation of the current path. How was it before? – In the past, it was clear that pioneers are being ridiculed that they are being hit head-shaking, that they are not taken seriously; and today they are the business card for Austria, today they are the advertising carriers on television and also on radio. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Straster.]] It is not enough, however, to pay monthly bills. While we know that it is organic farms that are economically easier to do, although they receive only 5 percent more public funds than conventional farms, on the yield, but organic farms face the same challenges as conventional farms. I do not think it is necessary here to separate the fate of individual businesses from one another and to present one as the good and the other as the bad. The future must be to find a good way to preserve biodiversity, water protection and, ultimately, animal welfare; and this will succeed if you sit down and make good plans together. I've missed that so far. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to thank my colleague, double-builder, for we have succeeded in adopting a joint proposal concerning pesticides in the Committee, which aims to make a good plan for the use of pesticides, how we can further develop what research funds we can use in the future. And yes, you were right in the committee, the request is not yet enough with numbers, but we will also work on it in the future, because if we want to comply with this biodiversity strategy if we take the Farm-to-Fork strategy seriously, we will also need plans to define the clear figures. I'll give you that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12644	Mr Strasser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12668	Mr Vogl claimed that in Austria - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12703	He can make a revocation of an actual correction, of course. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] - Don't go because he didn't refer to you, colleague Strasser. There can be no revocation. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - That's right. He didn't directly refer to my colleague Strasser, he just said it was in the food. One can only correct an actual correction if it relates to one itself, that is so. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The next point is Mrs Doublebauer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12745	The Rules of Procedure are sometimes a dog, Mr. Strasser, gal? Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we're coming back to the subject. We are discussing some of the proposals that have been dealt with in the Committee on Agriculture. Two of them are particularly pleasing from my point of view, because they originate from the spring of us NEOS, but they have then been voted together in cooperation across party borders, or we will vote and decide together today, and we are pleased, of course. The first of these two applications – and this is a very, very important request – concerns security of supply. Why did we do that? – I think it was positive that, despite the crisis, Austrian agriculture and trade managed to raise no doubt about domestic security of supply. Although there were empty shelves, they were rather paper shelves, otherwise this really worked very, very well, and I would like to pay tribute to the Austrian farmers. [[Rejoicing of the speaker]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Nevertheless, one has to say that there is a small side effect because the government has not made it so easy for them. Of course, it would have needed harvesters, and it still needs them now; I spoke to a vegetable farmer from the area just last week. So great it is when you're now Calls on people in Austria to make themselves available and to support farmers, as difficult as that. In fact, the following – and the farmer described it quite well – is experienced: He said he now gets calls from people who say they can work hard, they go to the gym anyway, and on Saturday afternoon they would have a few hours to asparagus, and then they ask if they might also take some asparagus home. Of course, one smiles when one hears such stories, but in the end this shows very clearly how little the image of agriculture is still in the minds of people today. These realities really clap apart. A farm isn't a ponyyard, it's hard work, and it needs knowledge, and it needs skill sets to do it well. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What is, in turn, very positive – and I would like to express my express thanks to colleagues from the Greens – is that they have included a very important aspect in this proposal, and that is the issue of land consumption. This is something that NEOS, as my colleague Michael Bernhard has already said, really is at our heart. Soil consumption is a huge drama. We remain at the top of Europe – unfortunately, we have to say – because we grow 12 hectares of land every day. Since the 1960s – and you really have to think about that, my Ladies and gentlemen, we have lost about 270 000 hectares of arable land and over half a million hectares of green land. This is, of course, dramatic. It is dramatic for production, but it is also dramatic for biodiversity. We know that there are now 70 percent fewer insects, and that has enormous effects on biodiversity, and of course this lack of green space is a huge topic. It is quite right, of course, that there is another request from us, NEOS, which will also be decided together today, which is particularly important. This is a significant reduction in the use of chemical-syntthetic plant protection products. We will also decide on this request together today, and I am really pleased. Finally, however, I would like to make another point, because at the end of the day the Committee on Agriculture had a rather strange mood, from my point of view. It's really fucking tempting to dream in such a crisis of the agricultural autarchy. – crisis-resilience means a lot, but it doesn't mean decomposition, and seriously: Farms also benefit from giving high-quality products to exports. There is also a lot of value added for Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Even our Austrian food culture is nothing but European. I mean, if you look at the fact that from the Hungarian goulash to the Bohemian flour dishes or the nockerls, which don't sound random like Gnocchi, everything is European, then you have to think a little European too. And if we really want to fight crises, we have to work together with our European partners. Austria has always been and is always the strongest, most resilient, the richest, when it looks beyond the edge of the plate and does not act chauvinistically. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] So regionality, yes, but not national small-minority! To be honest, personally, it's perfectly meaty whether the Biomilk comes from the cow in Schärding or from the cow in Passau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12848	Federal Minister Köstinger is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12869	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks to the Austrian agricultural model, it has succeeded in ensuring very strong agricultural production while at the same time supporting, above all, the high environmental performance of local agriculture. The realignment of the common agricultural policy after 2020 will be even more focused on precisely these environmental concerns, especially among the leading features of climate change. As stated in the present proposal, Austria really has a pioneering role to play, and this has been achieved through the very well-designed agricultural environment programme with a rate of more than 80 percent of the farming family farms in Austria. In the new common agricultural policy, the promotion of sustainable agriculture will also be a very important place in Austria. The objectives of the motion for a resolution will also be fully discussed and pursued in expert groups as part of the CAP strategy. In the field of plant production, Austria has committed itself to the integrated plant protection strategy and thus a sustainable and above all environmentally friendly and optimised use of plant protection products. This will be the key to success, especially for the future. This is the case in research and also in innovation activities, which in particular also take place from the Federal Ministry and are now being equipped with financial resources in the new budget plan. Work is currently under way to revise the National Plant Protection Action Plan. Our aim is to integrate all available best practice examples into the new action plan. We have also worked intensively to install a newly oriented and optimised warning service to enable even better use of plant protection products and thus above all to reduce the amount of plant protection products used. It is clear to us that the authorisation and re-approval of plant protection products must take place at European level and must continue to take place on the basis of scientific studies. Austria must be actively involved in these processes, and we must bring in our objectives, as has been the case so far. We also see that by increasing the incidence of drought, of drought periods, agriculture is quite under pressure. For example, when you look at the field, you know: The beet cultures in Austria are massively threatened. Last year we lost the beet harvest to around 10,000 hectares. It is therefore very important to also use plant protection products specifically, because it is not useful to lose production in Austria and then import these products – treated with the same plant protection products – back into Austria. That must be clear to everyone too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Two days ago, we shared here in the House, unisono also stressed that in the past weeks and months, Austrian agriculture has been making its has proved impressive and above all also system relevance. The crisis has led us all to see how important a comprehensive agriculture is for ensuring food supply in Austria. That is why the key to success and, above all, the lessons from the crisis in regionality are to increase the degree of self-sufficiency and thus ensure independence. Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with blind nationalism, but it cannot work if cheap butter from an EU neighbouring country now floods the Austrian markets. 99 cents for 250 grams of butter, such as a current action – this is morally objectionable! And let yourself be said: Even German dairy farmers cannot produce at such prices. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Therefore, the high quality and, above all, the small structured agriculture in Austria need support. That we ask consumers to picture it on the shelf that the products are worth something to them, that they see how much hard work is behind it, I think, you too cannot be considered to be completely away from NEOS. In most of the motions for resolutions we have tabled and we have included measures which we have already included in the government programme and which we will now implement during this legislative period. We will work on them with great emphasis, and we will also draw lessons from this crisis in particular. The priorities are clear to us: to support, to maintain and above all to give them a perspective. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12936	Mr Strasser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12958	Mr President. I can inform colleagues in Vogl, with whom you can really discuss well and who is very curious: If a food is offered in Austria containing Glyphosate residues, then the raw materials that make up this food cannot be from Austria because in Austria – we have the strictest glyphosate application regime in Europe – no glycosate is applied to mature fruit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And we can be proud of it, Mrs Doublebauer!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e12988	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13009	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! We Social Democrats are particularly committed to those farms which are particularly difficult because of their size or because of their situation in disadvantaged areas. Similarly, direct marketing is a factor that needs to be supported more strongly so that a source of revenue is possible, which gives the operation additional stability and reduces the dramatic mass inheritance. However, the EIA applications submitted to the Committee on Agriculture are marked by the fact that they are preoccupied with certain romances without involving concrete and binding calls for proposals. Keywords: 100 percent regional. – Who defines what 100 percent means regionally at all? Is it meant with regionally all of Austria? With the designation of origin, the ÖVP – and therefore also the Greens – relies on the label of origin of Austria. – However, this alone will not help our businesses. In addition, regionality does not mean equal quality. As an example, I would like to mention pigmeat. A test of the Chamber of Workers Upper Austria and of Four Pfoten has been involved in the review of animal welfare with domestic goodness seals. The AMA seal does not mean that the animals are kept beyond the legal minimum standards. It is meat from animals that have been kept on full-split floors and who as piglets have suffered a castration without anaesthesia. Regionally, therefore, does not automatically mean quality, and the animal welfare needs to be understood. [[Call to the Greens: Where is it better?]] Let's come to 100 percent seasonal food! – That sounds nice and good, but in reality it is unfortunately not feasible. With fruit and vegetables, the level of self-sufficiency is partly not even 50 percent. What concrete steps are to be taken to achieve the 100 percent in seasonal food, is not mentioned in the request of the government groups. It would be useful to strive for a reduction in export dependence. For example, investment promotions for production sectors with a degree of self-sufficiency should be increased significantly below 100 percent, while production segments should be increased by more than 100 percent. That would be a real and sensible steering measure, a so-called real crisis sensitivity, which should be the subject of your request. But unfortunately, your verbal request, Mrs. Federal Minister, does not meet with reality. In conclusion: Social crisis response is completely lacking in the application. Austria's agriculture is extremely dependent on foreign workers with some production segments. Working conditions and income are unattractive for people living in Austria and especially for people with care obligations. Everything must therefore be done to improve social sustainability in the agricultural sector and to make these jobs attractive to regional workers. That would also strengthen farmers overall, ladies and gentlemen. However, the ÖVP-Credo means: Bring cheap workers into the country, if necessary also with charter machines from Eastern Europe. This shows, however, the importance of the employees with you. You probably would like to have a subservient service offer company, which you would like to thank for the Sunday preaching work. But life is not a permanent harvest thank you, and beautiful landscapes are certainly not enough for the good of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13043	Mr Vogl has referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13067	In his speech, Mr Strasser said that the use of glyphosate on ripe fruit is prohibited and that it cannot lead to any raw materials containing glyphosate in Austria. [[Call the ÖVP: Is it too!]] - That's wrong. The right thing is: The ban on the use of glyphosate, which was decided in this House, has not been implemented in any way so far, so that it is still possible to use glyphosate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13120	Members of Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13142	Mr President. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watcher in front of the screens! With regard to applications for strengthening crisis resistance in agriculture and the development of organic farming, which, according to Mr Ecker, are said to be nebula proposals: I would like to remind you that in our government programme – and this includes these two requests – the words "agricultural" and "bio-agricultural" occur, not even, but several times. I can recall the government programmes among your participations, in which these words have hardly occurred at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] An ever-increasing demand that has been observed in recent times is the designation of origin for processed food and for food in the out-of-house consumption, also in public canteens. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: You have adjourned the request!]] We need to know that over 50 percent of the consumed foods are taken out of the house and not in our own kitchens, and even there the proportion of finished products is large and larger. So if we want consumers to take responsibility and decide, then we have to make the decision-making basis available to them and tell them where the food comes from. It shows, for example, quite clearly: Where do the Ukrainian cages hide, where do the meat imports really go? – 80 percent in cash-and-carry markets where the gastronomy, the canteen operators are shopping. 80 percent of the meat, these are estimated values. Why are they appreciated? – Among other things, it is a problem for Statistics Austria that it cannot determine from the European Barcode where the meat is, but can only determine where this meat has been vacuum-packed. There is a guaranteed need for change. The increase in the share of organic food in public food, as Burgenland under Doskozil now wants to show, is accompanied by a study by the Research Institute for Bio-Agriculture. I am very excited about the results, because these results will give us hard figures and bring us a line of arguments, namely, something that we already know, but have not yet completely packed into figures – that organic farming guarantees in the CO2 reduction, in the health of the soil and in the health of people “pays” that, according to a KeyQuest survey, 80 percent of people in Austria want and want regional food, and at least 70 percent of organic food. I'll give you all right, but I don't know what you want. One should not write, import or export regionally either. In my opinion, it makes no sense – and this is a loose-less situation – to ship from wooded Brazilian rainforests to Austria or Europe, here to feed pigs and ship the pigshax to China. This is a loose-less situation, and the biggest lot in it has the climate, which must be clear to us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my opinion, the applications for the biotranslation and for the strengthening of crisis-resilient agriculture are in the right direction. They pay on both accounts: on the account of the follow-up of Corona and on the climate account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13190	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13212	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Strasser, the question is not organic agriculture or conventional agriculture, the question that arises is: In Austria, do we even make it possible to maintain the agriculture that fights against massive international competition? This will be the crucial question at all, because there will be no cultural landscape, no tourism without mountain farming and no agriculture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the most important thing, whether organic farming or conventional agriculture, is the sales market. Now in your direction, Minister, Mr Anschober, said: Promoting the marketing market means forcing tourism. You held a press conference today and told us that from 15. Further relief will take place on June. What we have missed is that you were very inconsistency again and that the tourism staff must continue to wear oral nose protection, even after the 15th century. June. How should the market work if the employees have to face their guests, their customers with a mouth-nose protection? - That's the one thing. The next thing is: The delay shall be extended to 1 o'clock. Why is not the time limit even lifted? Why don't you let the companies work so that they can make sales and sales at all? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One in general for the treatment of opposition applications: We have voted this morning on requests concerning oral nose protection, we have voted on requests relating to the withdrawal of blocking hours. What did you do? – You have rejected these requests here on a flat-rate basis – and two, three hours later you will hold press conferences and do not debate with us here in the House! That's not dealing with the opposition, with all of us! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Laimer.]] I can confirm to Mr Fuchs in his statement: You talk to us, but you don't listen to us, and we regret that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Agriculture: I am a representative of mountain farming, you know, and we support mountain farming. Mr. Josef Hechenberger, you know that we support the mountain agriculture, but the figures in themselves are really dramatic. Just a few figures from East Tyrol: In Osttirol, a farm is closed every 14 days – unfortunately, God’s. With regard to bovine holdings: In 1961 we still had 2 575 cattle farms, 2019 1 253, so half as many, please; Milk producers: In 1981 1 000 milk producers, now only 490 milk producers. That's how it goes. We have to step in, we have to stop that! I have already requested several times here in the House that we should increase compensation payments specifically for mountain farming. There's still something. This blatant income difference between the average income in agriculture, see Green Report, and income in mountain agriculture. We must close this gap, we must prevent our farmers from wandering. That's the decisive one, Mrs. Minister! This is the approach we need to discuss and not necessarily whether organic or non-biological. We need both anyway, because this is also a question of the customers. If I can now quickly quote an up-to-date survey – the lamperle will light up again –: More than 90 percent of all consumers want a good price-performance ratio. You know – we now have unemployment, we have short work – it is of course also a question of money whether you can afford high-quality products. So, too, we will have to start and look for our food to be placed on the domestic market, not that we import cheap food from abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13291	Members of the Hechenberger Group have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13312	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Perhaps I can offer a solution on the subject of the discussion on glyphosate for Mr Vogl. We have a lot of experts in the Chamber of Agriculture, and I would like to invite you so that you can be fully informed about how the use really works. I think that is necessary and also important in order not to continue spreading such untruths. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] On the subject of organic, and that's one thing I'm talking about: We are currently dividing conventional farmers and organic farmers. Let's stop it! I bow to every single farmer, to what he does what he does. Every farm family really works very, very much and very, very hard for a very, very low income. I think it's both a success model. In terms of organicity, currently 25 percent of farms manage their farms biologically, but only 9 percent of foods are bought as organic products through the retail of food and only 6 percent in the gastronomy. That is, we are currently producing organic for export. Our access must therefore be that we increase it. That is, my colleague, Ecker, the biowend must happen on the market and not on the farmers. What is the background? – If you produce even more organic products, you will again cut the income of the farm families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cornelia Ecker.]] We need to think about it, I think. I think we still have a lot of work in front of us, so that we do not burden one-sided farmers' families. I also believe that the last few years have shown very well that the common agricultural policy and the Austrian environmental programme have been a good approach. In our federal state of Tyrol, 90 percent of families manage their farms without chemical plant protection and without trade fertilizers. Finally, the positive knowledge – I always see the positive in my counterpart: The positive thing for today is for me that colleague Schmiedbauer, blacksmith, has realized that the honest and the right agricultural policy is happening in the ranks of the ÖVP farmers' association. [[call to the FPÖ]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13385	Mr Vogl has referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13409	Mr Hechenberger said in his speech that I have no idea about the use of glyphosate and should therefore attend a course in the agricultural chamber. - That's wrong. The right thing is: Glyphosate may be used in cereals until shortly before the harvest, if weeds threaten to overwhelm it. That is, the use of glyphosate is possible there, contrary to the decision we have made in this House. I would ask him to take a course with his colleague Georg Strasser.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13436	Mr Köchl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13458	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Two days ago, I said in the budget discussions on agriculture that Mr. Finanzminister Blümel is not the appropriate finance minister because he does not manage the budget. The whole thing was confirmed yesterday. In Vienna yesterday I heard the first and shortest joke about this: Blossom. - That was the shortest joke. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] However, this has not mattered so much, because Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz, with his 60 media consultants, has actually brought it quite well and with permanent telephone calls, has been able to represent the chaos around the budget in the media as not so bad. This does not make that much difference because it is not so much inside the population. [[Abg. Jewellery: But this has nothing to do with agriculture!]] Now I come to agriculture: Bruno Kreisky was the last of the SPÖ, who was responsible for agriculture, and at the time he led the way that the farmers received a pension. The current ÖVP, which has since been responsible for this, initiates a permanent and reliable farmer's death. Every day in Carinthia and all over Austria, courts close. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] If my colleague from Carinthia, the Olga, says that two organic farms are added on the day, I have to say: [[towards Abg. Voglauer]] There's a lot more going on there! I have now been confirmed by the colleague of the Freedom Party in his speech. And that, I think, is the real scandal. Dear Mrs Federal Minister for Agriculture: Please, please promote the labor force at the farm and not the hectares! The agricultural industry is growing, and this must no longer be done in this way in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to agricultural chemistry, the European Court of Auditors has drawn up a special report stating that this is far too little transparency. Consumers want these toxins and the same that farmers have to disperse. But no, our ministry says that's silence, that's data protection. Science can't have that either. Well, it's quite clear that they can't calculate and do this if they don't get the documents. And one farm will not tell the other how much is in it, because all the more of this poison is in it, the better the ground is, of course. Make it transparent, it's time! The organic farms must be able to live and not the large corporations, of which so much weeds are sprayed into the fields that nothing else grows. It just can't be in the long run. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm already at the end; it's just going so fast. – Dear ÖVP, I can promise you that I will speak very often on the subject of agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13540	Is there any actual correction? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Easy: No, we are not correcting ourselves, Mr President.]] [[Call: Sometimes already]] Next item is the report by Mr Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13582	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! I would like to put my debate contribution a little under the motto: It can be a little less of the protection of plants throughout the subject. Actually, you could say: A little less can be more. The Federal Government has clearly made a commitment to integrated plant protection in its Government Convention and to a further reduction in the use of plant protection products. This is a confession that has been made. The National Action Plan on plant protection products will also be further developed. There will be further development with regard to measurable values and objectives of pesticides reduction. In addition, phytosanitary measures are supported by Öpul measures. There will also be a continuation of funding for advice and alternatives. Which is also very encouraging: There will be an increase in the research budget relating to plant protection measures. The Ages play a crucial role: It is the institution with us, which in this context is very intensive and very expert in the development and research of alternative plant protection products and soil active substances. In this context, however, I would like to go a little further: What is also important is that new registrations or re-approvals may only be authorised and approved if all of this can be found with the appropriate basic scientific and technical data. All of this is very important, and it is also an issue for Europe – that is to say, because everything else would ultimately be a distortion of competition for domestic agriculture, to the detriment of domestic agriculture. We are part of a global market with which we have to measure ourselves. We know how important agriculture is and how important it is. In recent weeks and months, the general public has been able to appreciate this once again, because agriculture is also in crisis situations the guarantee of independent and high-quality food supply for us Austrians. We have now been allowed to experience this. I would also like to mention in the context of the fact that the entire tourism industry is ultimately benefiting from a comprehensive functioning agriculture. The holiday guests, those looking for relaxation come not only because of the warm water, the beautiful pleasant temperatures, the high mountains, the snow in winter, the culture and so on – no, they also come, they have confirmed it to me again and again, because of our cultural landscape. The agricultural sector, as we have it, is the result of a large-scale functioning small-farm agriculture. In order to take all of this into account throughout the discussion, we need a lot of feeling and fingertips. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13637	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13658	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It's been noticed that my previous speaker was an agricultural teacher. [[Abg. Lightness: Is that good or bad?]] Nevertheless: There were good contributions he has made – at least theoretically; in practice, in the implementation it is there or there. Why? As far as food production is concerned, Mrs Bundesminister, you have referred to the importance of regionality, the importance of the supply sector in this spectrum, but at the same time, the Covid-19 crisis has seen that the food chains have benefited very much from it and achieved high profits. This is where the essential factor comes into play: This is on one side of the Farmers' Federation and on the other side of the Economic Federation. Why? – Mr Strasser complains about the prizes and Mr Haubner is pleased that they have more profit. So in this area, there is a bit of a convergence in its own ranks. I think someday you need to reach an agreement in your own ranks: What do you want in the future? Farmers on the one hand or large industry on the other? [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Cornelia Ecker.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] This call for help from Mr Strasser is not unfounded because he knows, of course, that there are fears of existence among his colleagues there or there. One has seen in recent times that there are fewer and fewer farms – I do not want to differentiate between organic farms and conventional plants, that is not the decisive thing. In the meantime, the decisive thing is: Is there agriculture in the future? Or: Do we want to have agriculture in Austria in the future? – You nod, Mrs. Federal Minister. That's exactly the point, and I think it needs an shoulder closure across the party borders. I have come to speak on the last days when we have tabled applications here. One of the essential applications was – and I would like to address this once again – that concerning the ‘promoting import stop of low-cost wood’ from abroad. - Rejected. Now, in a newspaper from Lower Austria, we find the following request from Mr Pernkopf, the head of state in Lower Austria and the Federal Farmers' Office: immediate stopover of foreign wood. [[Call the NEOS:But only to Lower Austria!]] I wonder, Mr Strasser – you are the Bundesobmann – if you know what your own farmers are doing, because on the one hand we are bringing in applications and on the other hand you reject these requests. You have to stand here sometime to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another aid project or aid package that we have offered in the form of an application is: ‘Reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction/reduction The adoption of social - Rejected. That too would have been an aid package. Another request we made was: ‘The suspension of agricultural marketing contributions to the discharge of domestic farmers’. – Rejected by both government parties. All these are things that would benefit the final effect of agriculture, but of course you are trying to do so by all means to prevent opposition applications from going through. At the same time, however, you complain that agriculture is so bad. At some point you have to agree on what you want in this country. – We want agriculture, we want a functioning agriculture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, one thing I still have to put on the issue of civil servants, because the civil servants are very important to me: They have differentiated between the wages of those who have to enter regularly and the wages of those who are called up – they get another soldier. So there is a difference in income. There are currently 16,000 civilians. 1 per cent is in agriculture, which is exactly 160 – there is a report about it. 160 civil servants are in agriculture, so relatively few. That is why I wonder why this is located in your resort, in the agricultural resort. It's a little scurry. Mr Anschober, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, is playing a little on the phone now, but that might not be quite wrong in his place. At the same time – very, very many civil servants are active in the social field: Red Cross and, and – go the Red Cross and send its regular employees in short work. With all appreciation: The short work should be for those who need it and not for organisations in the privileged field.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13729	Next item is the report by Mrs Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13750	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the request concerning crisis-resilient agriculture. This is an ambitious climate and energy policy. However, it is also about strengthening regional food supply in direct marketing and by providing guidance in public procurement. First of all, however, I should like to point out that Austrian agriculture is also capable of doing so in times of crisis. People in Austria can always rely on the highest quality and sufficient quantity of food being made available. At no time had to go to the Crisis is worrying that security of supply in Austria would not be guaranteed. Thanks to the farmers of the country! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have a high degree of self-sufficiency, and that is not God-given; that is why this request is also made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Interesting are only the statements that come from the SPÖ. On the one hand, Mr Köchl complains that farmers stop, on the other hand, Mr Laimer comes up with the proposal that all product sectors with more than 100 percent self-sufficiency – in the case of cattle farmers, dairy farmers – should receive less or no support in the future. Please go inside and think about how many cattle and milk farmers will stop if your proposal goes on! Food sovereignty must be a national objective and remain a national objective. This food sovereignty guarantees the farmers of the country. The basis is a wide variety of agricultural agriculture, which is based on the principles of an eco-social market economy. That's supposed to be the way it will be in the future. In the past, we have put in place a broad environmental programme, by offsetting natural disadvantages and by much more measures. This must continue in the future. Another important point is to strengthen regional food supply, direct marketing. – Yes, but not everyone has the opportunity and the conditions to do so. That is why there is also the focus on the extra-house consumption, on canteens, on public procurement. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for her willingness to issue the foreign exchange to use 100 percent regional and seasonal food in public procurement. It is also important to do convincing work in the gastronomy and hotel industry. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Finally, a word on food trade, which has already been mentioned: Although trade chains are constantly promoting regionality, often only as a fig leaf. Domestic products are often not clearly distinguishable for consumers. This is an urgent wish for food trade – and Mr Sieber has been arguing in this direction for some time now: Make available the necessary sales space in sufficient quantity and give regional providers their own sector on your shelf, a so-called regionality mile with a clear definition of goods that are not produced in the region! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The crisis, ladies and gentlemen, gives the opportunity for a new partnership with consumers. The crisis is also an opportunity for a new partnership with food trade. I hope that all stakeholders will also be willing to take advantage of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13825	Mr Ecker has been mentioned in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13847	Actually, I didn't want to talk about it anymore, but in this subject area I often go over my heart. I would like to replicate the comments made by two speakers of the ÖVP, first of all by Mr Hechenberger: I invite you from this point of view – if you don't have it, I can give you the feasibility study on glyphosate. gen –: Read the study! There you can read how many raw materials glyphosate is present as a residual substance. In the direction of Mr Strasser: Mr Strasser – and I have to predict that we always exchange at an eye level and very valuable – you reject our request on the grounds that you cannot agree, because many things that have already been formulated in our request are already being processed, because many things are planned because there are just a lot of things happening because there are measures that have already been agreed. Now I will read a sentence from your request: ‘In particular, the following measures, already agreed, may be developed in a timely manner or, ==References== – In our opinion, you should therefore not agree to your own request.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13879	Mr Kühberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13900	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Dear Mr. Schmedlechner! Peter Schmiedlechner will now be delighted twice, on the one hand because he has said that the sun will rise for him when a farmer's federal representative speaks, and on the other hand, because I will now respond to his request for mouse fruit. I have looked closely at this request. At one point I support you fully. It is a big problem, especially on the arable land. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forging Lexer]] When you look at that, you realize that this was a huge problem in Lower Austria, which then went to the total loss of the harvest. Why is that such a topic? – Because the mice simply multiply because of the climate change, the drought, less rain and also the winter that is no longer the same as before. It is also true, however, that the population is increasing in an explosive way every few years, and that is of course a huge problem. [[Abg. Listen: The whole speech is a problem!]] But now to the request: There is a question of participation in the Öpul. Participation in the Öpul is actually voluntary. As a farmer, I can choose any measure, and if any problem arises, for example, a regional budget, then you can, in certain circumstances, of course escape sanctions free of sanctions. Your request calls for a penalty-free suspension of arable land greening while at the same time re-payment of the Öpul-Gelders. Your colleague, you said you wanted to support us and help us. That's also good, but we'd rather accept the help from people who know each other too, because you obviously don't know each other, and that's why I want to give you a small overview. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Direct payments guarantee farmers' income if they provide services that the market does not pay. In the case of the Öpul measures, it is concrete that the voluntary measures that actually serve the environment, and especially in the field of arable land, it is such that it is about protecting against soil erosion, reducing nitrogen inputs into water and increasing soil fertility. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: That's exactly...!]] Yes, we are in favour of the payment of these funds to farmers in the context of the Öpul, these are also important funds, but it must already be in conformity with the law, dear Austrian Freedom Party! We, the ÖVP, make applications that hold, but, as I said, you need help! – These applications do not hold! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and FPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Freedom Party is now claping itself. Thank you! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] These requests from you do not hold because they are not in conformity with the law, because they are not EU-compliant. That's why I come to the aid again: The only one who really helps the farmers in Austria – I give you the right – is the Austrian Farmers' Federation, and in this sense we will fight for every euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e13996	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? – That is not the case either. I have a personal comment to make in the direction of Mr KIubobmann Kickl: I have read your speech once again on the occasion of the presentation of the new Secretary of State. By your carefully chosen words from the “overtures” and “returners”, you have devalued people because of their sexual orientation and identity and made a basic attitude of our house to show respectable equality between women and men in the depiction. I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14044	We shall now proceed to the vote on the reports of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if a short part-session is wanted. - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11. Firstly, we shall come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its 188 report of the additions to the resolution on the 160/A(E) motion for a resolution. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. We shall also vote on the resolution on the 188 attached to the Committee's report on the continuation of the Austrian road to regional, sustainable and quality-oriented production methods with a focus on organic farming and rural development and the measures of the agricultural environment programme. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[45/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cornelia Ecker, colleagues, on 'enhanced support'. of flowering strips for more bee and insect protection through the Rural Development Programme’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 12. We shall first come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 189 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 451/A(E). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the Committee's report 189 of the Supplements on 'Promoting integrated plant protection, including reducing the use of plant protection products in the sense of an eco-social agricultural policy'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[46/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13. We shall first come to the vote on the request by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 190 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 450/A(E). Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on "crisis-resilient agriculture" annexed to the Committee's report 190. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[47/E]] We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of its report 191 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[16:11:01]] 15. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (4D.B._Other Organiser Agreements on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part (77, e.g.) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (5D.B._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the OPEC Fund for International Development amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the OPEC Fund for International Development on the Headquarters of the Fund (78b.) 17. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (6D.B._Other Organiser Convention on the delivery of judicial and non-judicial documents abroad in civil or commercial matters of 15 January. November 1965 (79 d.a.) 18. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (7D.B._Other Organiser Agreement establishing the European Communication Office (ECO) The Hague, the 23rd floor. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== November 2011 (80 d.B.) 19. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (22 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convict Persons (81, e.g.) 20. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (23 e.g._Other Organiser Convention of the Council of Europe on money laundering, investigation, confiscation and recovery of proceeds from crime and on the financing of terrorism (82 d.a.) 21. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (38 e.g._Other Organiser Convention establishing the International EU-LAK Foundation (83 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14261	We now come to the items 15 to 21 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member Kugler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14288	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make a brief summary of what we are doing on these agenda items. We are discussing a seven state agreements. This, of course, sounds very high-end now, but because of international law, as you all know, even minor changes, for example on an additional protocol, are to be adopted as a state treaty and then ratified by all national parliaments. International law knows the principle of sovereignty, the principle of unanimity. Perhaps I should like to say a few general thoughts about these seven proposals, because seven international treaties that we are discussing here show how connected our lives are in the international field. For example, we have an agreement on an enhanced partnership with Armenia, we are also talking about harmonisation in the international postal and telecommunications sectors. We also approve an agreement on the establishment of an EU Latin America Foundation, which wants to have its seat in Hamburg and which wants to deepen cooperation between the European Union and Latin America, but also to promote mutual understanding. On the basis of these seven agenda items, we see something else, namely – in the example of OPEC – how central Vienna is for the international institutions, and we also see that many challenges that concern us in personal life have become international. I only mention examples: We will vote today, among other things, on an agreement of the Council of Europe on money laundering – in order to combat organised crime – and we will vote on the transfer of convicted persons and, as an example from civil law, we will vote on the delivery of judicial and extrajudicial documents in non-EU countries. So you see the high level of international interdependence, and I would like to thank our Federal Minister at this point: Keeping all this together to represent Austria well in these many things and on these many levels, I would like to thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As chairman of the parliamentary group with the South Caucasus, I would like to say a little more about the first item on the agenda, namely the agreement with Armenia. – The South Caucasus includes Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia. With Armenia, for many years, yes – I trust to say that – a good and important relationship for centuries. Many may know Armenia only from the radio-Eriwan-witzen – which always start with a question about Radio Eritrea, and then Radio Eritrea says: “In principle yes” or “in principle no” – but that is far too little when we think of Armenia. There is a lot about Armenia that we should know, and much of it we see in this agreement. It is called Cepa, which stands for Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement, and it is a mixed agreement, i.e. that both the European Union and all Member States ratify this Agreement. As far as the objectives of this Convention are concerned, I begin with one that is very, very important to me: the strengthening of democracy. They certainly all have somewhere else in mind that a revolution took place in Armenia in 2018 – it's called a whole revolution –: There the President-in-Office wanted to secure his power, did so with a constitutional trick that led to day-long mass protests. These protests were peaceful – this is something to congratulate Armenia; it has not always been that way. Then there were free elections. The OSCE has greatly praised these elections, and Prime Minister Nikol Paschinjan has resigned once again after half a year as Prime Minister in order to allow free elections, and that is all that really happened as the OSCE wanted. Armenia is making great progress in the area of human rights, diversity of opinion, anti-corruption, and the independence of the courts is also being pushed forward. Austria is an important reform partner in this reform process for Armenia. A second Cepa objective is the development of economic potential, according to the framework conditions for trade. Armenia has a special position here, it is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union, and it is now in addition to concluding this agreement with the European Union. This may also be interesting for Austrian companies, because it may be possible to gain at least part of this economic area via Armenia. Armenia is not easy in its geographical position, it has great difficulties with two of its neighbouring countries. That is why this agreement is very important for Armenia. By the way, Armenians live around the world – in the country three million, but also in the European Union three million, 5,000 of them in Austria. For many years, as I have said, we have had very good relations with Armenia, and I would like to give you two examples: There is here very close to our provisional Parliament, in the Neustiftgasse, for 200 years an Armenian monastery, the Mechitarist monastery, in which there is also a very interesting Armenian museum, which one can visit – to do this is a recommendation on my part – and the bishop's seat of the Armenian Apostolic Church for all Central Europe is also located in Vienna. In development cooperation Armenia is a priority country for Austria. I would like to end my thoughts on Armenia and on this agreement with a few words on another matter that is very important to us in Austria, namely the incisive event of the genocide against the Armenians in 1915 and 1916. At that time, it is said today, about a million people have been killed by genocide, and not all the countries of this world have recognized this genocide. When you visit the monument in Yerevan, you will see the flags of the countries that have recognized genocide. It's 32 now, and that Austria's with me, it fills me with great pride. Thank you very much for this initiative, especially the clubman of the People's Party Reinhold Lopatka, who has put it with all the other club members of the time – he is the only one who is still in Parliament now, but all the parties have jointly written a statement that Austria recognises this genocide. This is very important for Armenians. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] You may know Franz Werfel’s work “The Forty Days of Musa Dagh”, and I can personally tell you the following: When I got my first child in the hospital, I put the baby on my chest and read this book. The primer came in, saw that, and said: That's the right reading for a politician, and I think that's right. For the Armenians, this work, and therefore Austria, is central. It's the commemoration document of genocide, and if it's on the 24th. Every April every year of genocide is thought, the Armenians in Austria meet at the Franz-Werfel Memorial in Vienna in the Schillerpark. We are now discussing, I have already said, seven state agreements. Armenia is a small country, but Austria is also a small country, and I am pleased that today we will adopt these seven state agreements unanimously, both Cepa, the agreement with Armenia and the others. I believe that this is an important sign in the time we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14380	MEPs are speaking on behalf of Mr Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14401	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the increasingly tense global political situation, it is important to guide our efforts in two main directions: on the one hand, to promote international dialogue and, on the other hand, to strengthen democracy worldwide, of course. Austria is not really new now when it comes to these two important areas. Austria has a long historical tradition, a long history as a location of international, political dialogue. We should be proud of this, and we should not forget it. Many agreements have been concluded in the last decades in this city, in Vienna – agreements that have contributed to peace worldwide. The political situation has not improved, and Corona has brought even more tension to this area, so today it has to be our goal that Austria, in the sense of an active, genuinely proactive foreign policy, continues to offer itself as an international mediator in international conflicts, should actively come into play where it is primarily about protecting, promoting and strengthening democracies. On the other hand, we are also concerned that we continue to promote our federal capital Vienna as an important location for the settlement of international organisations. We can't care about this in times like this. It is about Vienna, about Austria as a place of international dialogue, and this should be something worth us, because we should put a lot of foreign policy effort into it. I know that you, Federal Minister, are also a personal concern. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, we also expressly support the office agreement, which we decide today for the Opec Fund, which is also within your area of competence. The promotion of democracies, the promotion of human rights is not only an important task of Austria, it is an important task of the European Union. With the European Partnership Agreement – my previous speaker has already addressed it – we confess between Austria and Armenia, and this is good, to strengthen cooperation with Armenia and thus also to promote democracy in Armenia. Two years ago, there was a whole revolution in Armenia, which was a good start, a quiet, a slow beginning, and the path that Armenia is still ahead is a very, very long one. However, these progress made there two years ago and in recent months it must be put to the fore. There has been progress in the area of justice, media freedom, anti-corruption, and that needs to be built on, because Armenia must continue to be proactively supported by us, by Europe. That is why I am all the more pleased that we have been able to reach a unanimous decision on this agreement. This is important to put this strong signal, this strong symbol for more democracy and human rights. These are important foreign policy concerns, Mr Federal Minister; I know they are important to you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14455	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14477	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! I have two specific questions on two of these seven state agreements, which the Austrian Parliament decides today. The first question relates to the State Treaty with the Republic of Armenia. It's that kind of thing. Paragraph 50 1 of our Federal Constitution State contracts which have a political character, or state agreements, which are complementary to and governed by law. In any event, it is necessary to treat the National Council six times, otherwise the whole thing is also about the administration, so to speak, as administrative agreements, in your case about your ministry, but at least not about the legislator, but the executive is dealt with. In times like those in which we are currently in, I am and the Freedom Party is particularly careful when it comes to delegating competences, so to speak, from the legislative, from Parliament, to the executive, to the government or to the administration. This agreement, even in Article 1, refers to more or less than a political agreement, and Article 2 provides for a political dialogue. There is also a political measure, namely the decommissioning and safe decommissioning of the Mezamor nuclear power plant, which we see as very positive – I hope I have spoken correctly. My specific question, which I hope you can answer, is: Why, then, do the BMEIA and the Federal Government believe that this is not a political state agreement? He is now in Parliament, because the administration has found that he is a change of law, but the question is aimed at the fact that we liberals would like to see a less restrictive term of state contracts as political state agreements, but rather a more offensive one, which means that the whole here in Parliament must be dealt with. The second question relates to the agreement between the Opec Fund and the Republic of Austria, to a registered office agreement, which is good and right and important. Of course, we have a second centre here in Vienna, the International King Abdullah-bin-Abdulaziz Center. As a result, our concern is that improvements and privileges made in the corresponding office agreements are also automatically applied to this King Abdullah-bin Abdulaziz Centre. There is Article 22 in the relevant provisions. I asked you in committee whether this was the case in this case. You said: No, that's not the case, these privileges are explicitly not applied to the King Abdullah-bin Abdulaziz Center. – That calmed me very much and satisfied me. Besides, maybe: What is the state of things about the center? In my opinion, there is a sincere parliamentary decision that provides for a closure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14525	Mr Ernst-Dziedzic is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14546	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to go into these seven agreements in detail now. As unanimity prevails, as in the last speeches, I can only say that international cooperation, European cooperation and precisely these agreements are of particular relevance to Austria, and we have a long tradition here in Austria as far as such international cooperation is concerned. Mr Kugler has already mentioned it: As far as the EU-Armenia Agreement is concerned, we consider this to be very important, because it could be thought that this type of agreement is a preliminary step for agreements that the EU has already concluded with other countries, such as Georgia. This is an important further step. The agreement with the Opec Fund is to be supplemented by an amendment protocol to ensure the foreign policy interests of Austria in Europe and in the world and also the expansion of Austria's headquarters and conference location, as well as relations with international organisations. The Convention of the Council of Europe on money laundering and the investigation, confiscation and collection of proceeds from crime and on the financing of terrorism was signed in Austria in 2005. It has been in force since 2008 and is now finally ratified, which I am particularly pleased with. The agreement between the European Union and Latin America has already mentioned Mr Kugler. I think this is very important, especially in the current situation, because we know that Latin America is particularly affected by the current crisis. But it is not only about international law, but of course it is also about human rights. The Council of Europe, you will know, is the oldest human rights organisation we can call on, and I would like to make a motion for a resolution on the summit 19. As you know, there is also at European level a so-called LGBT Intergroup of the European Parliament, in which all parties, groups, are represented, including people with a heterosexual orientation – simply as support, out of solidarity. This intergroup has also recently condemned the current developments in human rights with regard to LGBTI rights and called for us to act in solidarity with them – that is why our request. [[Quoted print version removed]] I consider this proposal to be quite, very important; it was the subject today. I would also like to thank the SPÖ for this suggestion to address this. We have been happy to take this up and to be able to work out this proposal together with the ÖVP. I think it is really a matter of making it clear in Austria where the border is, also making it clear what European values we must hold high, and this is definitely a matter of protecting not only human rights, but also minorities. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] Since we had the discussion about a yet, as I would say, devaluating formulation of the FPÖ Clubman, I have allowed myself to bring you a small gift. [[holding a mouth-nose protection with rainbow patterning in height and back into a green envelope]] This mask is fresh and now also extra for you packed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: It needs it!]] I would recommend you to perhaps also raise a bit of awareness of putting on this mask just a few days to see how people react to, to see if you may also be plagued to see if you are even in Austria just for wearing a rainbow mask to be attacked on a daily basis. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes!]] Perhaps you will also understand how important it is to be solid, to uphold human rights and really not to use discriminatory expressions here in the House in the future. Thank you. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] [[The speaker handed over the envelope to Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Kickl: (the Kuvert demonstratively on the free space between him and Abg. Meinl-Reisinger legend) A bitel a freedom of expression you will also be...!]] [[16:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14734	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14758	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been very good if we could have accepted the request that the Federal Ministries should also be equipped with these beautiful colors. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] - Thank you. Mr Federal Minister, please, so this will be done in the Ministry of Health, thank you very much. Mr Schallenberg, the Federal Minister, thank you very much for the Treaties, everything has been said; I do not want to say anything more about that. I would like to address another issue, namely Israel in connection with our foreign policy. In fact, we had planned to make an application for Israel's security. I then discussed this with colleagues Martin Engelberg. We agreed on 90 percent, but on some points we did not agree either. I also understand Parliamentaryism in such a way that one does not necessarily vote in favour of the other or make a request to vote down, but rather to speak with one another; perhaps we will come up with a common solution. I wrote at the time and also said here in the house that I very much welcomed it, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Israel Just as soon as he visited Israel 2018 said very clearly that Israel's right to exist is part of our state, ten years after Germany, but after all. I think that's very important. What I do not think is, however, that whenever a proposal comes from America, and if we know that it is meant by Donald Trump's internal policy, or if something comes from Hungary, join it immediately. I regret that we have, above all, an Austro-Hungarian foreign policy. This would be even better for me in the Habsburg sense than in the current Orbán sense, because the anti-Semitic campaigns of the Orbán government are so terrible – just too caricature terrible; the way in which Soros and others are spoken is so devaluable – that I really urgently ask that we do as little as possible in conjunction with Hungary outside politics and elsewhere. As I said, perhaps we will find common ground on the issue of Israel's security; I will try. By the way, I am also pleased that other colleagues are already quoting books – Franz Werfel, wonderful – and earlier it was said: [[towards Abg. Kugler]] He's making advertising for a book again! In the meantime, the question is: Did you bring a new book? - Yes, I brought a new book: “Schimon Peres” – listen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] [[The speaker keeps the book up to date.]] That's very important. Schimon Peres is Nobel Peace Prizewinner, together with Rabin and Jassir Arafat. We know Jitzchak Rabin was murdered for seeking peace. Schimon Peres has grown very old. This really exciting book appeared only after his death. He was, of course, someone who always – even this is happening in this book – advertised for peace. I ask for understanding when we are skeptical about peace in the Netanyahu government. On the question that we have just discussed, namely whether international law is really being broken with what is contained in the new government agreement, we are going to talk about it; that is what we have done. Because it's so beautiful, I want it 34. Citing Psalms quoted in “Schimon Peres. ” I now have another quote from Peres, but now first of all the 34. Psalm: "Keep your tongue from evil and your lips, that they may not speak deceit. Leave evil and do good; seek peace and pursue him!" – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14840	The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has spoken. - You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14861	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all know that we are actually still in the middle of crisis management on Covid-19, but I welcome the fact that we still have such a treatment here in the National Council during this crisis phase. This is important, because – and this has been stressed over and over again – foreign policy does not stop. It is also necessary to ensure that you do not overlook developments in the shadows of the Coronavirus – Hong Kong keyword or elsewhere – or that you do not give them enough space that will then take place, and then perhaps you will find out again later, what actually happened worldwide. I can only assure you that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are in any case very vigilant – so to speak, as the eyes and ears of the Republic – and are watching developments worldwide. I would certainly like to thank the National Council for today's treatment of the non-essential agreements. In reality – that has already been said – there are three essential points to summarize the agreements: As a second large group, I would, for us, make a very important contribution to the rule of law, the fight against organised crime and the fight against terrorism, the money laundering agreement, the delivery agreement that accelerates, facilitates, and thereby shortens cross-border delivery procedures, or, for example, the Convention of the Council of Europe which actually implements the very important concept of imprisonment in the home country; and the last point – for us, I think, as a small 8.8 million resident country in the heart of the European continent, which is export-dependent – is the constant intensification of cooperation with essential partners, which has already been mentioned: Armenia, the Partnership Agreement, which is part of the Eastern Partnership network, and, of course, the establishment of the EU-Latin America Foundation. May I perhaps take this opportunity to express a brief appeal here, because it is also part of these treatments, namely an appeal for the office that we have here in Austria? – We have 40 international organisations that are based in Vienna, and something that is often forgotten – it is constantly being pushed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is not quite right –: These organisations add 1.3 billion euros to the Austrian economy and create 10,000 jobs. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the European Parliament.]] Not only that, the effect goes far beyond: They lead to international schools, such as the Vienna International School, the Danube International School, the Lycée and so on, making Vienna more attractive for the settlement of international companies. So there are a whole series of effects in the wider sense, so my appeal: These are really high-interesting organizations that do great work, who also enjoy appropriate political perceptions that are delighted with visits and contact – wherever you can, here is a cross-party appeal! Maybe just briefly on the questions that have already been raised: I can confirm what I have already said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: The content of the updating of the Officeship Agreement with the Opec Fund is limited solely to this Agreement and that organisation will therefore not be applied automatically or otherwise to other Headquarters Agreements. Mr deputies, you have referred to the Kaicid. The government programme here provides a very clear line, so to speak: Work for modernisation, and we reserve that this centre is also moving the seat. The work on this, I can only say, is on high-speed. We do not make this public, because there are four Contracting States – that is, three Contracting States and the Holy See as a observing founding member – with which we are in contact, but we will certainly be able to take further steps in the coming months, since I am very confident. However, I am also concerned that we do so in such a way that the reputation of Austria as a reliable headquarters does not cause any damage. So: Yes, the political mission is there, yes, the government programme is there, but please so that as a reliable office, we do not take any damage to our reputation. Last but not least: To Mr Brandstätter, who is not in the hall right now, I can only say - - I am sorry! [[Abg. Fireplaces: I'm here anyway! I'm just so small!]] [[Rejoicing with MEPs from NEOS and Greens.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] So I can calm you down, we do not accept any proposals or ideas from the USA or Israel. The ideas we have, and the measures we are taking, that we are already considering ourselves, we are developing them ourselves in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in the Federal Government. Finally, I think you have raised the question of a joint declaration on the occasion of the accession of the new Israeli government. I think that was a little misrepresented in the media – I would like to put it right here. I just want to make it quite clear: This is not a question of the point of view, but of the time. The Austrian attitude on the question of annexions is perfectly clear: There are UN resolutions under Chapter 7 of the Security Council, since there is jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice, there is jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. However, we were concerned about whether this is really the opportune time after many months of a successful Israeli government – whether Europe really needs to speak first and not more, what I said at the time, has to stretch out its hand, invite the Foreign Minister, try to get back into a dialogue, and not just talk about the European megaphone, so to speak. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14918	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e14939	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Estimated Austrians! First: Mr. Brandstätter, thank you for your book tips. I always find this very pleasant. I don't want to disillusion, anyway: Ladies and gentlemen have also read and quoted books in front of you. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Bravo! Nice!]] Mrs Kugler often does. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Fireplaces.]] To our points today: I am pleased because in this House, of course, the conflict and the disagreement are often the dominant, even the discourse, and in the field of foreign policy I experience it quite differently. There is a very, very appreciative, respectful basis in dealing with each other, a matter of fact and an inconsistency in the Committee, and I feel that this is incredibly pleasant. Necessary decisions are discussed jointly and then made pragmatically. I would therefore really like to thank all the political groups that have been a priority here in the field of foreign policy, so that the good of the decisions has so far been unanimous. I think that's all right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is a good sign for a country that this level does not become the playing ball of the political match. We are discussing a broad spectrum today, and I would like to remove and highlight a small area because it is incredibly important for our economic future in Austria: This is the settlement of international organizations, such as the Opec one. This problem of 10 000 jobs affects all of us. The OPEC Fund for International Development wants to offer its employees better framework conditions, and I think it is about the framework conditions we can offer for expats here. If we want more locations of these institutions in the future, it is up to us to provide quality of life, art, culture – international schools have been addressed – to offer research institutions, research premiums, but also more attractive additional labour costs. These are economic parameters that are necessary to attract these people. I would like to thank Minister Schallenberg: a great praise to your team! Over the last few weeks, across all political groups, we have all received a lot of positive feedback about the people who have been brought home. I feel privileged to be able to live in a country with such top diplomats. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our Diplomatic Academy enjoys world reputation and has produced many generations of top diplomats who are now internationally as brand ambassadors for Austria abroad. The Covid-Pandemy has shown us that we are connected and dependent on each other, so we need unity just in appearance to the outside. This fog of the pandemic should not give us a view of the beauty and the essentials of our country, namely the magnificence of the people. We must now try to be the best version of ourselves – Vienna as a point of attraction for international dialogue, as Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner mentioned in your speech. This morning I saw in the little souvenir shop down the Augustinerstraße, which is currently permanently closed, a small sign on the door, on which stood: Come in, we're awesome! Come in, we're great! – Let us all share this message at home and abroad so that the souvenir shop can open the door to its customers soon. – Come in, we're awesome!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15007	Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15028	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! First of all, to the state contracts on which this is concerned: The Treaty on More Intensive and Further Cooperation with Armenia is very welcome. Traditionally there are very, very good connections to this country, I think it is an exciting country. Since it is also necessary to contribute to stabilisation in a difficult region, I think that it is in the sense of an active and also neutral Austrian foreign policy. The continuation of the 1990 money laundering agreement is also exciting. There are concrete steps to understand international terrorism and terrorist associations as organised crime and to concreteise international cooperation against illegal financing of these terrorist organisations. As regards the location questions, Vienna's Opec location: Location issues are very important, and the settlement of international organisations is very welcome. Mr Federal Minister, you know that I keep pointing this out: In fact, you should increase your budget in terms of acquisition, support for advertising work, relations, presentation of Austria at international organisations. I would now like to make one more motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think this is very, very concrete: Especially on human rights issues, it is about stating human rights violations in concrete terms. In response to our motion for a resolution, Black-Green has also decided to take a small, gentle counter-programme, but the teeth have been drawn to the motion for a resolution by Mr Ernst-Dziedzic and Mr Marchetti. The evil boys are once again not mentioned by name, and I think that is not possible on human rights issues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already blamed the ÖVP foreign policy on Saudi Arabia: As far as Badawi is concerned, solidarity must be formulated, but Saudi Arabia must not be called by name from the point of view of the ÖVP. The same applies to Hungary: It is important to formulate grueling words in the sense of Europe, but it is not necessary to criticize Orbán and Hungary for their human rights violations. I think that is a watering-up, it is cowardly, it is inconcrutable, and that will not help us in terms of human rights or concrete improvement. The evil boys belong to the name, and that is clearly Orbán and Hungary in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15097	Mr Deur, we have not heard the motion in its entirety. They have stopped using “Hungary. ” You stopped using Hungarian, but you would have to read out the whole request – “Become more...” – otherwise it would not be properly applied.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15116	“Furthermore, the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs and the Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution are invited to work in the Council of Europe, in the EU and at bilateral level for the improvement of the situation of inter-gender and trans* persons in Europe.” Thank you. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[16:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15210	The application has now been properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, as stated in the Presidency, proceed to the completion of the agenda. [[16:51:53]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 393/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martin Engelberg, Michel Reimon, MBA, colleagues on a substantial increase in humanitarian aid and the means of bi- and multilateral development cooperation (84 d.a.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 75/A(E) by Dr Stephanie Krisper, colleagues on emergency measures for Syria (85 d.b.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 122/A(E) by Dr Helmut Brandstätter, Members and colleagues on the classification of the entire Hezbollah as a terrorist organisation (86 d.a.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 394/A(E) by Mr Reinhold Lopatka, Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, colleagues on effective action against Hezbollah (87 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15295	We now come to points 22 to 25 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15323	Mr President. Mr. Ministers! The Hezbollah promotes the armed struggle by terrorist means, calls for the violent elimination of the State of Israel and finances itself with arms and drugs trafficking. – I’m annoyed a little bit that the lamp is already shining – thank you! – because otherwise I have no orientation as to time. [[in the direction of President Sobotka, pointing to the lamp at the speaker's desk]] [[the lamp is lost]] Hezbollah is financing arms and drug trafficking, and I think it is very good that we take this step today and consider measures. I personally would also do well to take another step – for example, the one that Germany just left two, three weeks ago – and, for example, to ban activities and activities of Hezbollah in Austria and also to engage in the fact that this is generally the case in Europe. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Engelberg.]] Secondly, The resolution on ‘substantial increase in humanitarian aid and the means of [...] development cooperation’ comes from February, and the call for the funds to be ‘sustainable as soon as possible’. Today in the early days we decided on the budget and – admittedly – the donation of the foreign disaster fund increases by EUR 5 million, I would say after your own argument; it has always been said that the reserves will definitely be dissolved and we are at least EUR 20 million – but should be, given! Let's say we raise it by 10 million euros from 15 million euros to 25 million euros – let's not be small! – and we increase the ADA budget by not all 12 million euros. If we still deduct the 3 million euros we have less for multilateral organisations and then calculate what this increase means in view of achieving the internationally promised objectives of development cooperation funding, namely 0.7 percent of gross national income, then we must say: If we continue this increase of this year, we have reached 0.7 percent in 2092 – great! This will hardly be experienced by any of us here, I fear, and that is certainly not the pace I expect if development funding should be sustainable as soon as possible. The pace is neither appropriate nor sustainable because the structural problems remain in development finance. We still have no path that would be politically negotiated, which would be legally secured, until when we reach the 0.7 percent – we had already agreed before the year 2030; still much too late! The crediting of debt is also not substantial, except that it is not agreed with the OECD's Paris Club, and it is one-time effects. This does not increase our means of development for the long term or for long term, and it also adds that: There is also no legal guarantee of the funds, because it is simply still discretionary expenditure. An even more ambitious press release policy or such a creative policy of donation doubling or even so stretchable, paid-free applications do not help to really increase development funding substantially; therefore, we are certainly not in favour of this request. It is up to others of whom we believe that we can really achieve a substantial increase in resources.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15383	Next item is the report by Mr Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15404	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has been very detailed in development cooperation and has been talking about announcement policy. - That's wrong. The funds donated to Syria until Easter have actually been doubled, and the budget has also been significantly increased. You should also see this and not make all that comes from this federal government worse. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, I would now like to deal with another proposal which is being discussed within the framework of these agenda items. This is about the Hezbollah, the party of God, as it calls itself, created in 1982 as a revolutionary Shiite anti-Western organization, on whose account many, many attacks go. But the Hezbollah is more than just a military organization that has attacks, you have to see. Hezbollah is also a political organization with a large social network that also has other terrorist groups; this often gives them the necessary hold - even from simple people who really want nothing to do with terrorism. This is how Hezbollah controls Lebanon, where political conditions are very lavish, for example in wide areas in the south of Beirut, in the Bekaa plain and also in the south of the country, directly on the border with Israel, the day-to-day events. Politically, there is nothing without the Hezbollah in this torn country, which was formerly called Switzerland of the Orient. She's an important actor there. This key player is also used massively outside Lebanon by Iran when it comes to the enforcement of military interests. Hezbollah is very close to Iran and is also committed to Iran's top leader, Ajatollah Ali Chamenei. The core of the world view of Hezbollah is that it wants to destroy the state of Israel. Hezbollah is famous for being the organization of resistance in the region, and of course one hears and sees there again and again on transparents that one wants Israel to die. This has led to the fact that throughout the world Western democracies in their national parliaments, as well as international organisations, have decided to take action against Hezbollah in the form of a terrorist organisation. In North America the USA and Canada, in South America Argentina, in the field of Oceania Australia, in Europe Great Britain, the Netherlands and recently Germany have come to this assessment. Also interesting is that already in 2016 the Arab League the Hezbollah without opposition – in the Arab League is also the Lebanon – has overall classified as a terrorist organisation. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] As in other areas, we in Europe have remained on a half-way. Catherine Ashton was the foreign commissioner at the time. The European Union has only been able to get through to regard the military wing of Hezbollah as a terrorist, but not the overall organisation. At that time, Ashton founded this smallest common denominator by not wanting to destabilize Lebanon, and that is why only the military wings were classified as terrorist. In the meantime, the terrorist attacks have continued, but last but not least, we have dealt with such organizations, Covid-19 has covered everything. I think it is time for us to look again at other fundamental issues that are important to the world's development, whether they are SDGs, whether they are climate change or also dealing with terrorist organisations. It is time for the European Union to re-examine this issue, because more and more national parliaments have explained their position on it. We must put an end – and this is so important in such organizations – to the formation of legends, namely, that it is always considered to be just resistance for the Hezbollah, when it uses violence, when they practice bomb attacks when missiles are shot into Israel, to be self-defense. The legend also states that terror is always exercised only by the others. – We must put an end to this legend formation and say: Hezbollah is not a self-defense organization, no, she's a terrorist organization! This should happen at European level, because it also takes what it needs so much, namely political legitimacy. This is the decisive thing for me when such bans are pronounced: This makes clear distinctions as to whether something is legitimate or not. Terror and violence and missiles can never be legitimate, so it is time for the European Union to come up with a clear language regime in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15475	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15496	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am referring to the request for substantial increase or increase in funds for development cooperation. I would like to quote the Minister of State who, in another context, concerning the question of Israel, has chosen the term “the opportune time” half an hour ago. Mr Bayr has already noted that the request was submitted in February 2020, before the Corona crisis. From today's point of view, I do not think it is very useful to talk about substantial increases in funds for development cooperation, because aid for Austrian people, for Austrian workers, for Austrian employers, for Austrian companies and for families for us is a priority of freedom. This does not mean that we generally consider development cooperation and development aid not important. This is perhaps also a clarification; today, yes. the colleague of the Greens made it clear that the Greens have no fundamental problem with bubble music. I would also like to say that we have no fundamental problem at all with development cooperation and development aid, quite the contrary; the question is just how to do this. We have a problem with saying, if the approach is to: We have to substantially increase what is going on in the funnel, we have to take more money into our hands – as Minister Geessler said in connection with the climate protection measures. We ask the question: Whose money is that we're taking control of? – This is, of course, the taxpayer’s money, and it is by no means the goal of the Freedom Party to pour as much into these funnels as possible – be it 0.5, 0.7 or whatever percentage of GDP – but the goal must be that as much as possible with the need carriers that as much as possible come out of the funnel. To formulate the picture: We don't want a funnel, in the ideal case, we want a pipe where there are as few scatter losses as possible as possible as regards the difference between what we take into our hands on money and what comes from the demand carriers. The fact that there is considerable potential for improvement is certainly clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, in the government program you have again used a nice, benevolent formulation: “the principle of targeted help”. Mr Bayr also said that. I cannot see targeted aid on the basis of a coherent, accurate concept in the field of Austrian development cooperation at the best possible will. Our proposal is that we implement the target in two dimensions: first, regional: Let's concentrate on certain countries, let's not make a little bit of a spotter – there a bit and there a little, in Africa a little, since two countries and so on and so on! Secondly, In terms of content, there is the possibility to take specific action by implementing Austria – in the field of art and culture – as a global mark in classical music, we have implemented Austria – in the field of development cooperation, for example in the field of education, especially in the field of dual training, as a corresponding global brand and say: Whenever major projects take place, Austria is excellent in this field, which covers Austria well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So: situation-adapted, targeted help, but more than a speech bubble, output-oriented and not filling the funnel with tax money as fully as possible! Another point: It's not unconditional. It is quite possible to discuss and make a condition for withdrawal agreements for refugees. As the Germans do, you know that, you can make progress in the fight against corruption a condition. This is a huge theme, not from me, but from the anti-corruption NGO Transparency International and the NGO Human Rights Watch have massively criticized the International Monetary Fund because EZA funds are awarded at billions, and I quote, without the minimal anti-corruption control. - Quote. That can't be! We are also the ones whose money we take in the hands of, that this is not used to promote corruption. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can imagine another condition: I see no sense in transferring development aid funds to countries whose military spending is double, triple, quadruple of those in Austria. There you should also ask how meaningful this is. Of course, in the ideal case, development cooperation measures should also be appropriate in order to make a positive contribution to the fundamental economic relations between the respective country and the Republic of Austria and the Austrian economy. As has been said, development aid should not be a one-way road, but rather aid, the contribution of the countries which are contributing to this development aid, in particular in solving the huge problems of tax evasion, money laundering and corruption, should be requested in this overall package. Our access is therefore: It is not a good, sensible development policy, as much money as possible, that is, tax money, to pour into the funnels above, but it would be good to proceed with this four-point approach I have just proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15583	Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15605	Madam President. Minister! In my speech, I would like to address a request, namely that of Mr Krisper. This was about emergency aid for Syria. In this respect, we have given more concrete mention to things on the part of the government parties and have given more concrete figures than was the case in the NEOS proposal. The question was that the Federal Government should be asked, among other things, to provide even more targeted funding for the work of the UNHCR, for the Red Cross, as well as for other aid organisations operating in refugee camps in the Greek islands, in the crisis regions of Idlib and North-West Syria and in the Turkish-Greek border area. To this end, we have still stated that we are offering Greece not only medical and logistic but also psychological assistance and that we are committed at European level to the fact that the EUR 700 million decided by the EU is not only used as aid for Greece for border protection, but also for the protection of refugees. It was also very important for us to note that Austria is actively working at international level to protect Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. We know the situation is really devastating there. We have also stated in our request what we have already agreed and anchored in the government programme, namely to work out a general government migration strategy and then implement it accordingly in cooperation, in international agreement. All in all: There has been a request from the opposition that we have put ourselves together and even expanded and concreteized it in this case, as has been said. To that end, I also hope to support this broader request from the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15642	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15666	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister! We have one this week. Many debated and disputed, and this was about money, about the budget. The discussion about foreign policy is that God is grateful, a little more sitting, and I now want to talk about life and future prospects for real people. The resolution by EIAs and Greens on a substantial increase in humanitarian aid and the means of bi- and multilateral development cooperation speaks of poverty reduction, social and political stability and life prospects. - These are the right words. Thank you for that, too. The ADA's priorities are also in order: Water supply, hygiene, climate protection, agriculture, gender equality. There is nothing to be said about it at all. But: A toilet is an important matter, but a toilet alone is not yet a perspective. Intensification of agriculture is also important: If families with fewer workers produce more food, what do the younger siblings do? In all these considerations, I lack something, including in relation to the groups of friends: I look forward to setting up the friendship group for southern Africa, Mr Kassager, when, hopefully, soon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] In the Covid crisis, an aspect of Africa has also become more known to a broad public, namely that it is the continent of young people, where 60 percent of people are under 24 years of age. These young people don't just want to live in the village; they don't want to put a goat in front of them and say: So, that's poverty control now!, but they want a transformation in their lives, and so so many of them rise from the villages that already have flowing water and toilets, in any kind of snakes, risk their lives and try to find a new perspective in Europe. They do because they know about our modernity, and they don't stick to the court of grandparents. Young people understand technology, and it is no coincidence that so many creative mobile applications arise in Africa. If there is a lack of infrastructure, people use their creativity to do something they need from what is there. This creativity must be promoted in order to create a new era of founding in Africa, which also provides a perspective for young people. Then they no longer need towers and find jobs and the future on the ground. We welcome the increase in economic development funds, but also encourage that this increase does not lead to a more of the same, but that in the ADA we also think of new projects, not only in Vienna, but also on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15718	Next speaker: Mr Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15739	Madam President. Mr. Foreign Minister! A sentence only on the comments made by colleagues Brandtätter: I'd subsume it like this: The topic of Israel is the most imaginable topic to deal with any criticism of Trump, Netanyahu, Orbán, Chancellors of the Federal Republic of Germany in short or wherever. That is why my invitation, which I really would like to put into practice, is that we talk about it again in peace. Thank you also to the Foreign Minister for the explanation of how it has been achieved – which I think is a little denunciation – that it has been presented to the public as if Hungary had with Austria or Austria with Hungary That was not the case. – Thank you very much for that, and I don’t want to say any more. As a speaker for development cooperation, I wanted to say – we have already talked about the increase –: It is also about sustainability, which has been re-instructed everywhere. I do not necessarily see sustainability as just how much we increase the funds. I have to say, in talks with NGOs, but also with many people who are involved in African countries, it has always been clear that it is a sign that our commitment is there and that we are also considering something, not only about increasing the funds. I'm just calling a few things that we're thinking about. One thing is that for us it is quite clear that local aid is very much at the heart of our attention. Therefore, there is also a strong increase in the foreign disaster fund. Secondly, the strong focus on migration: How can we help people to avoid getting on the way? Thirdly, a very strong focus on economic cooperation with African countries: How can we help Austrian companies to settle in African countries? How can we help entrepreneurs in African countries get up and running? We also have a very strong focus on setting benchmarks, especially supporting those countries that are moving forward in the area of democracy development, poverty reduction, the prohibition of child labour, compliance with certain standards and so on. Not least – and this, I think, is also a very important focus: How can we help African countries to use our expertise in the field of dual education, perhaps in combination with newly founded manufacturing sites or companies? This would be an ideal case, and we believe that this is what we understand as sustainability, apart from the fact that we have actually significantly increased the funds. One last word: Much has already been said about the Hezbollah proposal. First of all, I think it is great that we have once again come to a unanimous outcome on a very important issue; I am very pleased and honoured, I believe, as a Parliament. I believe that an important point is also this differentiation between political and military wings, which is really an interesting type of thinking that the European Union has invented. It is not true that the Hezbollah asserts on its own that there is a military and a political wing, no, the EU has defined it to be able to act, as it were, criminally. We are even running a trial in Graz next week against an activist of the Hezbollah. That means it's a current problem. The crucial point is that the Hezbollah itself rejects this distinction. That is to say, we are indeed required here in Europe to give up this game and to call the Hezbollah as a whole what it is, a terrorist organization. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would like to say once again that I am very pleased that we have come to a unanimous approach here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15811	Next speaker: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15833	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! While we have been talking here for a few days – suits, beautiful clothes, everything very clean, all disinfected – in Moria in Greece, children, women, men and young people are sitting in a camp in dirty conditions, saying that Indian slums are a luxury area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] That's the condition there is. This is the situation that cannot be changed in this Parliament, in which we have a majority of two major parties and half of a large party that will never vote in favour of a human policy here. While we do this, raised in the Mediterranean people, will not be saved, and now not even ships go out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Okay, that's the state in this Republic that can't be changed by this majority of nearly two-thirds who don't want to change it. What we can change is help on the spot. What we can change is behind these borders, and as a green person we have decided to do so and demand that the funds for development cooperation and for disaster aid be significantly increased. We're going to put this through and we're gonna put it through. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Development cooperation is a stepchild in this Republic, neglected for decades. The amounts paid are pitiful. What I don't understand at all is when the SPÖ produces and says: There's nothing paid for, that's so little! – Now an increase is requested, and the SPÖ says: The increase is too little for us, we are voting against the increase and remain with the pitiful amounts! – I don’t understand the logic of that even after 10 minutes of thinking. We have taken over pitiful amounts from you, you are voting against the increase and say that this is so low and that the increase is too little for you. - How is this going to go out in the head? We have agreed that the amount of the amounts will be pushed up every year in the coming years, even during the Covid crisis. We insist that this budget be increased and expanded in a turquoise ministry because we do not want to abandon these people. This is an absolute basic condition for us in this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15888	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15909	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I came across the Grete Rehor Park today and saw a portrait of Franz Xaver Gabelsberger. He is the inventor of stenographic art. I would like to express my thanks to the honourable Members for their comments: I made a mistake first and ask you to correct that. I was, of course, opposed to cooperation with Hungary, not against cooperation with Israel. That was my Lapsus, and I ask colleagues to correct this. – Thank you for your work! I have already said today that Parliamentaryism should not be meant to oppose each other or to vote against something that is always the same, just because it comes from the other party. I would like my colleague Mr Lopatka – he's not here, unfortunately; ah, there he is. . already draw attention to the fact that we first tabled a resolution on Hezbollah, in which we said very clearly that the Federal Government should be called upon to represent the entire Hezbollah as a terrorist organisation in Austria and to work for it at EU level. You can still agree because the request, which has subsequently come from the government groups, still contains a little less. It is a new assessment of the question of dealing. I think a lot has been said about Hezbollah. There is no division into the different arms. This is a terrorist organization, it is financed by Iran, it wants the destruction of Israel. These are all things to which we have to say quite clearly: We certainly don't want that! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Lopatka has already rightly said that many European countries have already spoken in this regard. I've said it a lot, too. Of course, I am in favour of cooperation within the EU. I believe that the concern should be that our government within the EU is committed to the fact that Hezbollah is clearly classified as a terrorist organisation. If I am already with the EU: I found an interesting article in the “Trend” today: “Europe is when the sun shines with us,” writes colleague Andreas Lampl. That's a little bit the problem. He analyses very well that we are giving ourselves European when the sun shines, if there is no problem, and then if we want to come out of an economic crisis together, we are trying words like debt union and the like, which is simply wrong. I think it is very clear here that Europe can only act together. By the way, if we want to accept the challenge of China, which the “trend” also addresses, and we must accept it, we will not be able to accept it as a small Austria, but only the European Union can do so. Although the time is always so fast, I have now taken along a quote from Schimon Peres. I think that can lead us all together into the extended weekend, and no one should take it out. Schimon Peres once said so beautifully: “All the powerful ones I have observed have become impatient and intolerant, have overestimated the measure of their opportunity and have given up principles as well as friends self-gloriously.” – I wish you all that this does not happen to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15961	Next speaker: Mrs Michaela Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e15982	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! We are discussing today, under item 24 of the agenda, the motion for a resolution adopted unanimously, for a joint action against Hezbollah. I am very grateful to all my colleagues here in the House that we have found such a uniform opinion here, because the Hezbollah represents radical Islamist thought. It focuses on military actions and attacks, especially against the State of Israel. It also regularly challenges the right of Israel to exist and vehemently promotes violence against Jews. This is also totally unacceptable to me, as the concern of the Austrian-Israel group of friends here in Parliament, which I have the right to chair, and I strongly support it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Unfortunately, these currents are not only in the Middle East, but now anti-Semitism has come into the midst of our enlightened society. According to the current anti-Semitism report of the Israeli Cultural Community of Vienna and the forum against anti-Semitism, which was published two days ago, the number of anti-Semitism reports in Austria has increased again, and please not by any number, but by 10 percent within two years. This is shocking and for me a warning sign that we must act together decisively against it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Back to the motion for a resolution: This motion for a resolution aims to ensure that we find effective measures against the criminal and terrorist activities of Hezbollah, to prevent the financing of Hezbollah by money laundering activities in a sustainable way, and above all – as my previous speakers have said – to come to a new assessment within the EU. This part in the military and in the political arm is, I think, not right anymore. We must all insist that new solutions and approaches are found at EU level in order to achieve a clear, uniform line of the condemnation of Hezbollah as a terrorist organisation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16030	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16055	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I believe that in the area of development cooperation we do not need more people who ask the right questions, but we need more people who give the right answers. I think that the image of development cooperation is always a little explanatory. Many believe that you give a few poor children a bit of money or you buy fair trade products, and that's kind of development cooperation. But that's just a completely wrong picture, it's a lot, much more. The reason why the funds do not always rise as fast as my colleague Bayr wanted is – you have to say honestly – that there is no choice with the topic of development cooperation. For this, we are not delighted in the constituency, in the beer tent, because it is also a slightly more abstract subject, and I think that is also part of the problem. I am glad that we were able to increase the EZA budget by 12 percent with the budget we have decided today. But I also believe that it is not just the EZA budget that we need to look at. For me, for example, the pot for development research in the Ministry of Education, which is taught at EUR 620 000 a year, is part of this – this too is development cooperation. This pot is new, and I think that's really a super project. I believe that on this fundamental question, as we see it, it is simply so that education must be an essential part of development cooperation, for as colleague Brandstötter said: If you have perspectives when you Skills have, then you have really achieved a lot, can stay there, can develop the country, and that is quite, very important. That is why I will definitely mention my favorite project, the African Union. I think that's the direction we need to go. Mr. Kassinger led this funnel metaphor, so to speak: There's the vein, money comes in, but somehow it's not that targeting. - In part, I'll give you the right. I believe that when a new three-year plan is drawn up in 2021, it is also important to discuss which countries are priority countries in development cooperation, and to do a little more targeted in this regard. We must say which regions of this world we want to achieve, because it is unlikely that everyone will not be able to reach. This discussion, I think, should definitely be conducted, and there is enough time to do so by 2021. I would like to talk about Parliament's role in development cooperation. I think that in many countries, Parliament does not have a role to play, for example, in Austria: a self-confident one with different parties. I believe it is important that we also work with the parliaments to strengthen democracy in other countries. We come into contact not only with the government groups but with all the political groups represented in Parliament. I think this is important in order to strengthen Parliament's institution in other countries as well. I think we can do a lot, much more, in the framework of the bilateral friendship groups here in Parliament, and this is for me development cooperation. We should not see the subject so one-dimensionally and look only at this one budget item, but perhaps also see the contexts and think something out of these interrelationships that really brings us forward in this area. I would also like to stress: Let us not only take a look at this pot and not just at the Minister, but also at what we can do in our work to bring projects forward! In this sense: It was a very objective, exciting discussion, and I hope that we will continue together. It would really be high time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[17:31]] [[17:33:37]] Vote on agenda items 15 to 25
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16113	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs wish one of the rapporteurs the final word? - That's not the case. Before we come to the votes moved, I ask the clubs if they wish to interrupt the sitting before we enter the voting process. - That's not the case. Then we come to the votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements on a comprehensive and enhanced partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the other part Armenia, on the other hand, in 4 of the supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Opec Fund for International Development amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Opec Fund for International Development on the Headquarters of the Fund, in 5 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who's calling for it? – This too is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention on the delivery of judicial and non-judicial documents abroad in civil or commercial matters of 15 January. ==References====External links== Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who's calling for it? – This too is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 18: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement establishing the European Communication Office The Hague, the 23rd floor. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. This too is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convict Persons, in 22 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. This too is unanimously accepted. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Nico Marchetti, colleagues on the protection of inter-gender and trans-persons in Europe. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is accepted by a majority. [[48/E]] vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sabine Schatz, colleagues, on the protection of inter-gender and trans* persons in Europe and, in particular, in Hungary. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention of the Council of Europe on money laundering and the identification, confiscation and collection of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism, in 23 of the supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. This is so unanimously accepted. The vote on agenda item 21 will be taken at the next voting time. Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements establishing the International EU-LAK Foundation, in 38 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously approved. Vote on item 22, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 84 of the Supplements on ‘a substantial increase in humanitarian aid and the means of bi- and multilateral development cooperation’. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[49/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Opinion on the request by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 85 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 75/A(E). Whoever is in favour of this consideration, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the resolution on the "Syria and Greece package" attached to the Committee's report 85 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of this report, who approves it? – This is the majority, accepted. [[50/E]] Agenda item 24: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 86 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of this report? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on item 25, the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 87 of the Supplements on 'effective action against Hezbollah'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. This is so unanimously accepted. [[51/E]] [[17:40:37]] 26. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment No 479/A(E) by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, Mr BSc, Mr Colleagues, on children and young people
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16396	We're going to the 26th. Agenda item. I welcome the Federal Minister. There was no oral reporting. This is the first speech by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16427	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Family and youth: an important topic! We now come to a proposal which I have tabled by the SPÖ, which is unfortunately rejected, which is really a constructive proposal. It would have been necessary to implement measures for children and young people during and after the corona crisis. There were fifty press conferences on various subject areas – sect tax, economic aid that, by the way, apparently did not arrive – but none of these press conferences really dealt with the issue of children, young people and their needs. The numbers are devastating, I mentioned them on Tuesday. The Council on Wire has published new consultative figures: 200 per cent more sleep problems, 146 per cent more requests for panic attacks and depressions, 54 per cent more requests for suicidal thoughts and autoaggression such as cracks, 88 per cent more physical violence in the family. All of this actually leads us to see the need for immediate measures for children and young people, measures that really develop their effect immediately, and not just at some point in time and far too late. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I would like to take a brief look at what we have proposed: immediately 100 psychologists more in Austria's schools; a crisis management that really brings children and young people more into focus; Child protection – we have already heard it in other applications – needs to be further expanded; social workers support the executive; medical care for children and young people continues to be ensured; Planning safety for child and youth work. But what happens? . This concrete proposal is rejected and there is an amendment by the government parties which refers to the government programme. That's a problem! This issue is being pushed to the long-term stage, and I think this is really worrying, because we have not only known ourselves about children's rights, we have committed ourselves to upholding and implementing them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A brief swivel to two other agenda items from the Family and Youth Committee, to a request from Mr Bernhard and a request I made by the SPÖ on the subject of ‘Reduction of the indexation of family allowances': This truly nationalist-populist remnant of Turquoise-Blue, as I would even say, has now been sent to the ECJ by the EU Commission, finally – actually a blamage! Our requests – I think I can take them from NEOS – would be an outstretched hand to take back this measure, this robbery of the future for children and young people. However, both applications were postponed. Mrs Minister, you have already confirmed to us in a request that there is an automatic recovery. I think that is good, because we are really convinced of the EU's unconstitutionality, and there was, unfortunately, no political agreement, despite the real admissions of the Greens in the form of press releases. These press releases are probably just fog grenades like the rainbow masks, because I find it really embarrassing what happened with the request for flagging of the ministries and also with the SPÖ's request for the protection of LGBTQ persons. That's really sad. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fire brigades.]] I am sure that the courts will now decide on the indexing of family aid for the benefit of families, children and young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16502	Next speaker: Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16526	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! ==References== I would like to thank all the speakers and members of the various clubs as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the first meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection during this period. The discussion was very appreciative and constructive, and I believe that, although we continue to work together in this way, we will be able to move a lot together in family policy. The aim of this proposal is to take measures to strengthen and support affected children and young people in the crisis. Of course, the families have been supported by the funds and measures, and in total we were just glad that the families in Austria took over so many tasks in this crisis. Whether it was home schooling, childcare or nursing activities in the family and much more: The families have performed their tasks tremendously and have thus become one of the most important, if not the bearing pillar in the crisis, for me. In order to address particularly negative effects on children and young people caused by the cod crisis, this proposal is intended to speed up and implement measures, which, as the previous speaker correctly noted, have already been noted in the Government Convention as soon as possible. The main points in the application concern a awareness-raising campaign, support for schools and teachers in the prevention of violence, the creation of therapy options for children and young people, the provision of support staff in schools and a specialist campaign in the field of pediatricians. You see, ladies and gentlemen, this is a variety of points on which we have agreed in the government programme and now in the committee, precisely with this proposal, which was also supported by the NEOS. The focus of the application is on families in which violence has taken place, which has led to a rejection due to domestic violence. Let's look at the numbers: There were 936 directions in January of this year. In April these figures increased to a value of 1,075 directions, and I say: Each individual case is one too much, and probably the dark number of cases in which violence takes place in the family without leading to a direction is much higher. However, ladies and gentlemen, in view of these figures, if we consider that there are 2.4 million families in Austria, I think we can say: The family model has proved itself absolutely well in this crisis, and I think we are doing well to thank the families once again for this great commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16570	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16594	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister of State! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mrs Bundesminister, we are talking about children and young people today, and I think you know what's going on, because I'm talking about children and young people. In the last few days, you have often addressed the same subject on different channels, and the problem has still not been solved: I'm talking about the Family Hard Fund. My previous speaker, Mr Sieber, Mr President-in-Office of the ÖVP, has just said that there are 2.4 million families in our country. We know from surveys that about half of these families have massive income losses, that is, we speak of 1.2 million families in our country who really have problems. The government has rightly set up its own hardening fund, a family harding fund, which has been used since 15. In April, he submitted his applications. ==References== In April and the following days, there is still no answer. You have been aware of this since the last Family Committee meeting, and you – and I have paid very close attention to it – have not made any public statement on how to proceed now. The problem is – we have worked this out – that only complete applications are processed. A person who files an incomplete application receives no answer for reasons of efficiency, so your Secretary-General has said. You told me that a five-digit number of applications had been received, between 10 000 and 90 000 of these 1.2 million families, and 50 percent of them were incomplete. – At least 5,000 families and a maximum of 50,000 families await and receive no answer. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The worst thing about this is in this particular case that you have known this for a few days now. There are several forums in the social media, there are those affected who have written you numerous emails – many of them I have also gotten – and these people still get no answer. There is now an automated receipt confirmation, which is a first small step. If you call the hotline, for example, and ask what the problem is, you get an answer at the hotline that you and your ministry officially don't get. The main problem, according to Hotline, is that people have only photographed the front and not the back of their bank card; therefore – if you only photograph one side of the bank card – there is neither an answer nor money. Another problem with this is – and this is also very common – that the Family Hard Fund is linked to the other hardening funds. That is, if an EPU does not receive any money from a normal economic hard fund, it does not receive any money from the Family Hard Fund – automatically and unverified. I told you two days ago, no, yesterday it was, that a group of 600 people have only received money from a single person; now it is of the 600 two. There are certainly not all 1.2 million families that have been introduced to you, but I am sure that many people are waiting for an answer and for money. What I really expect from you today – and many are looking at it again – is that in your answer you are going to address how you put the Family Hard Fund in such a way that people get an answer, know how the state of things is, if something is missing, they are actually told quite clearly what they need to do, and that you are presenting a solution – here, today and now. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] With all appreciation: If that does not work, I will recommend to those concerned whom I keep in touch next week – we don't have a plenary week, we MEPs have a little more time – that it might make more sense for affected families to demonstrate before your ministry. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you do not go to the High House Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not listen to the media, perhaps you will listen to the people when they call out loudly for their right to demand what you have promised them at major press conferences in mid-April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16675	Next speaker: Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16700	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! The SPÖ proposal, by Mrs Holzleitner on ‘Being more focused on children and young people’, is very extensive, includes six points, is very detailed. Although some of the measures that we might support may sound very reasonable, there is one point in this, that is item 3, “Social Labour Support of Executive” – that is what you ask – according to which you want to rely instead of on punishments rather than on offers of social work. We have a completely different access to this point, Mrs Holzleitner. We want and demand that there be no penalties at all, we demand a general amnesty with full refund for corona sentences, because it cannot be that young people, 14-year-olds, are being punished with 360 euros, because, two weeks ago, it happened in my district, four young people were punished, met in a garden facility, in a housing facility to be able to spend their free time, and because they have not observed the distance. That can't be. On the one hand, young people are being punished because they do not comply with the distance, and on the other hand, on the same day, the Covid-19 regulation is not taken seriously at the same time in the Kleinwalsertal. You're even making fun of the security distance. There's only one thing we need: an end to the corona insanity, right now. That would be the best measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16739	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16763	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Yes, with Mr Eva Maria Holzleitner's request, the SPÖ calls for a concrete plan of action for children and young people. We call for the extension of child protection and we also call for the practical support of the executive by social workers; we consider this to be very useful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want the medical care of children and young people to be assured, we need planning safety in children's and youth work, and we urgently need an increase in school psychologists. We demand this very concretely. The amendment, on the other hand, is a purely government statement of intent without a specific objective and without a timetable. The measures for children must, however, be taken as soon as possible. The needs of children are far too short in the context of crisis management, and we now need concrete measures for our children and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Now is not the time for declarations of intent to refer to the government programme, now it is time to act. Many projects are being postponed to the long-term, for example to the children's cost study, for which no budget is planned. With regard to the costs that families have to spend on their children, we lack current empirical foundations. The failure is particularly evident in the case of the rule requirements. The needs for the children are determined according to age, but the values fall to 1964. The annual adjustment is only made by the consumer price index. That the costs, the needs of the children in 1964 were quite different from now, this is self-evident, but the change in living conditions is now particularly evident in the crisis in the technical equipment of our children. For home lessons, technical equipment with notebooks and internet access was the basic condition for every family and for every household. By the way, we now also know that one fifth of the students do not have these technical requirements because these families simply cannot afford to do so. Over the past 56 years, expenditure on households with children has changed completely, and family law and family policy measures have nevertheless been based on the obsolete set of rules, such as maintenance law or family support. In the Committee, our request for a child cost study was repeatedly postponed and thus postponed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is now a need to adapt the rules, and measures are now needed for children and young people. Ladies and gentlemen! Children have rights, these have hardly been mentioned in the last few weeks of the lockdown. It is high time to focus more strongly on them; Declarations of intent do not help any single child in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16855	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16879	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Oh, my God! As we in the Committee and as we have already said publicly, we welcome the removal of indexation by the ECJ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Why? – Because the persons living in Austria who pay taxes and social security contributions here should not be disadvantaged in social benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Of course, every child is worth a lot to us. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: There the ÖVP will look beautiful now!]] Dear Evi, you have to address this in the direction of ÖVP, because if you look at it in real political terms and count it, you have to find that we have no majority here, Greens, SPÖ and NEOS. I could now talk more about the Mazal opinion or show contradictions and so on, but I would like to take the opportunity to talk about it: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] What does the crisis do with our children? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, what?]] One issue we have not talked about is: What does this crisis mean for young people suffering from mental illness? My previous speaker has already mentioned it: It is obvious that mental illness is intensified by isolation, by the uncertainty, by the disappearance of routine. We know, I think, everyone, as it is, if you don't do well for a while. For example, in the event of depression, it is not just that you don't get well for a while, but that's a disease - a disease that we unfortunately still talk about in our performance society too little. This is still a taboo theme, and only a few break the silence, because unfortunately this is still much too often confused with weakness. Life with a disease or overcoming such a disease requires a lot of strength. We cannot prevent certain things, but we can dispel the consequences and we are responsible for protecting children and young people from the effects of these and other crises. – And no, we are not pushing this to the long-term bank, and the request we are making includes concrete measures, as my colleague has already pointed out, namely: Action to protect violence with a focus on domestic violence, mental health and social workers' support. Every child, ladies and gentlemen, has a right to safety, to mental health, no matter what crisis we are in. If we look at only the economic aspects of the pandemic and not the social and psychological consequences, the children who suffer significant damage to young people will be a collateral damage to this health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e16953	The next item is Mrs Julia Herr. [[Abg. Lord goes from the back bank to the speaker's desk.]] Mrs Julia Herr is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17001	Madam President. Minister of Finance! High house! We have, respectively, Genossin Holzleitner has made a request that children and young people in this Corona age are no longer forgotten that children and young people are placed at the heart of the fact that there are enough school psychologists and psychologists that there are social workers, social workers, that there is medical care for children and young people in that country. All these are points I thought of: How can one not agree to this request and, instead, bring another, far more shambles, less concrete request? But it becomes clear to you that once again a quote from the Minister of Education, who – I quote briefly – speaks of students as human capital, which we should not lose to a great extent. Okay, so it's no longer so surprising that you don't agree, because anyone who calls students as human capital, which we should not lose to a high degree – that's also so great, to a small extent we can already lose them, you don't know – who at least speaks of children and young people as capital, as numbers, as figures in the service of the economy, can have no empathy with the real concerns of children and young people in the country. [[Onions of the Abg. Fire brills]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does it really need? I took something here, I'll show you. [[The speaker showed a poster entitled “#LOSTGENERATION Without training, unemployment threatens OGJ”]] This is from the trade union youth who received us all in the early morning. She pointed out that there is a need for training places, namely now. The unemployed we are talking about are very young, and we must not forget their future. [[Abg. Loacker:...forget!]] And: When we really talk about children and young people, we need a broad look, and then we also need to talk about youth organisations. They get less money each year, all of them together, whether they are the associations or not, from the pathfinders and the pathfinders to the bubble music youth – of which we have already spoken so much today – from the Catholic boy to the Muslim youth, from the socialist youth to the Green Youth. All these youth organizations together do great things, but year after year their money will be less. Approximately 20 years ago, a figure was set, a grant amount, and it never again attacked. That is, while costs, renting et cetera for all our youth organizations are rising annually, the aid is getting smaller and smaller. It can't be! Just like the people who work in the care sector or in the supermarket, not only verbally: Thank you!, come out, but really need a wage increase, just as the people who have just become indebtedly unemployed don't: You want to listen to it anyway, but you need a real increase in unemployment benefit, just as children and young people, dear Mrs Minister, do not need another: Thank you, and appreciative words, but at last sufficient funding! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17055	Mrs Gudrun Kugler came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17077	Madam President. I have now reported spontaneously because I wanted to make some things clear here. Mrs. Neßler, if I may start with you: You said you were glad that indexing was removed. You know that indexation has been presented to the ECJ and that the ECJ has not even written the indictment document itself. We are now very excited about this European judgment, but there are good arguments that the indexing of family aid is not lifted. [[Abg. Loacker:... secret, your arguments!]] We will accept what the ECJ says, but I can tell you what arguments it makes for not to happen. [[New calls from the Abg. Loacker.]] I'm just saying: It is stated in the European Union Regulation that family benefits must be granted in such a way that people would live in the same Member State, and this is, of course, the idea of the value of purchasing power. It must not be distinguished in the case of work-related benefits. The family allowance is not a job-related benefit. A person who does not work in Austria, of course, receives the family allowance for his children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] You must not distinguish between citizenship. We don't. We distinguish by place of residence. If the children live in Bratislava with Austrian citizenship, they also receive the indexed family allowance. [[New calls from the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Call:Please leave it]] Now, however, I would just like to conclude by saying: You all know that there is a difference in purchasing power when you compare how much 100 euros are worth with us and, for example, in Belgium or Bulgaria. [[Abg. Matznetter: Stop...!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Just be quiet!]] That is why I can tell you, Mr colleague, but also to all of you, because of the differences in purchasing power, I can only treat each child the same if I index. [[Abg. Matznetter: No,...!]] Only then is there an equal treatment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:..., Mrs Colleague!]] And something else: If you are in favour of a united Europe, you should not be so vehemently opposed to measures that correspond to people's sense of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17204	Ms Beate Meinl-Reisinger spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17232	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly to Mrs Kugler: I am also very much in favour of ensuring that regulations are in line with people's sense of justice. It is even more important to me in a rule of law that they comply with the law and the law, and we will first see whether this is not illegal in Europe. [[Admissibility with NEOS and SPÖ]] I spoke because I was really very upset. I'm sorry, Mrs Neßler, you saw me tremble. I also come from family policy. I think it is wonderful that the Greens have recognised that this crisis has a massive impact on children and young people and, in particular, on children and young people with disabilities. Dear Greens! But when I got here weeks ago and told you what the fear rhetoric of your Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and, unfortunately, the Minister of Health – everyone would know someone and there would be mountains – has had an impact, even on children and young people, you have wiped it away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Now stand down and say: Ma, the poor kids, we have to do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17278	Now no one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. I ask the clubs if they wish to interrupt the session. – There will be no interruption, so we will immediately come to the voting process. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its 187 report of the additions to the motion for a resolution 479/A(E). I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are voting in favour of taking note of this report, are a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the "strengthening children and young people in the crisis" attached to the Committee's report 187. Who is in favour of this resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. [[52/E]] [[18:11:11]] 27. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 516/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the resolution of the Chamber of Workers' Reserves for COVID-19 Support Funds (169 d.b.) [[28. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 503/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in relation to action on efficient and effective short-time work (170 d.a.) [[29. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion for a resolution (Doc. Michael Hammer, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Law on the Examining of Income-Dependent Taxes and Contributions, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Municipal Tax Act 1993, the General Social Insurance Act, the Construction Workers' Allowances and Waste Cases Act and the Wage and Social dumping Law (171 d.b.) [[30. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 200/A by Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues in a federal law with which the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, BGBl Nr. 200/1967, amended (172 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17399	We now come to the items 27 to 30 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First word message: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17426	Madam President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters at home in front of the screens! We see here today a consequence of the social security law which is rather unwholesome from my or our green point of view; it is about examining the contributions. The previous joint examination of all pay-dependent taxes, the so-called GPLA, was a success model because it reduced bureaucracy and enabled quality control. The Dominance of the Ministry of Finance due to this Social Insurance Organization Act was created by the VfGH with effect from 30. In June, as an inadmissible intervention in self-government was abolished. Without a new regulation, we would have fallen into a situation in which social security, financial and local authorities alone check whether laws are complied with, whether workers receive the wages and salaries due to them, whether wage or social dumping is carried out. The decision-making of this law today, which not only restores the situation before 2020, but also creates a better framework for the cooperation of the examining bodies, is important, as this law also ensures equal opportunities for workers' rights and fair competition between entrepreneurs and the institutions of the social state. In particular, the Corona crisis has shown us the importance of a functioning social state, and this health crisis has also shown us that the social state needs to be partially better protected and that other appropriate measures must also be put in place. In any case, it was correct and important that we negotiate this arrangement with the social partners, with SPÖ and with the various social security institutions. For example, the joint examination of all pay-related charges that have been carried out since 2003 can now be continued, and I assume that this cannot really happen to anyone. In any case, it has shown that cross-party cooperation can be paid off and can solve problems as well. I would like to thank all those involved in this solution. Finally, I would like to make a total amendment tabled by Mr Hammer, Mr Muchich, Mr Koza, Mr President, who has been sent to the clubs. This application includes, inter alia, the provision that establishments in which insured persons are represented by public officials, railways and mining companies are also included in the GPLA. The application refers to the legal regime for the disbursement of medical doctors for the risk group attestation and the acquisition of the costs for health insurance providers by the Covid-19 crisis management fund and includes the correction of some editorial errors. Last but not least: The request that the Chamber of Labour should dissolve its reserves, of course, we will reject it out of full conviction. With regard to its contributions, the Chamber of Labour is also heavily affected by this crisis – because of rising unemployment – and is currently doing very valuable work in the field of consulting and supporting its members, the workers in this country. We have never been at our disposal when it comes to financial weakening of the Chamber of Labour, because it is also a political weakening, and we will not be available for weakening the Chamber of Labour in the future. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[18:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17626	Next speaker: Ms. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, president of the club. – Mrs Club Chairman, you are speaking. The total amendment is distributed or still distributed and is deemed to be filed. Please, Mrs. Club Chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17653	Madam President. I would like to talk today about a subject that has also dominated the media. You know, we're in the following situation: 600,000 people without work, 1.3 million people in short-time work. So half of all self-employed workers are currently unemployed – and that can't leave anyone cold! I am convinced that this means that we have to do everything at the moment – really, everything – to fight every job in Austria. At the same time, of course, we must make every effort to ensure that we do not have a social and wage dumping in Austria. That is why there is a social partnership, which is why there are negotiations, and it is very essential that the trade union represents the interests of workers. As you know, however, the round of negotiations between Laudamotion and the Vida trade union is now in place without agreement. If it stays there, it means that 400 people in Austria stand without a job. What upsets me – and I would like to say this quite clearly – is that today I read that the Vida negotiating team had two representatives from two competitors of Laudamotion, namely, from the AUA and from the level. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as essential as it is that the trade union is committed with all its power to work for workers, it is so unacceptable if it appears that the trade union is to be called into question. ad policy and keep a competitor out of the market in the sense of competitors. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is the task of today to fight every job, because it is not to be expected that a pilot who is now 50 will find a job in the foreseeable future with a new airline – just as the situation is at present. In any case, it is no better that these people are now unemployed. I therefore urge the Federal Government to make every effort to ensure that they sit at a table again – and without the impression of partiality that this is really about AUA interests – and really do everything to reach an agreement. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am convinced that, in today's situation, we cannot allow ourselves to make a competition policy in favour of the AUA on the back of these 400 people. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[18:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17777	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17805	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear colleague Meinl-Risinger! If you say something here at the speaker's desk, you have to say everything you play together. What really happened in these negotiations? – The trade union wants an industry collective agreement for all in which the Chamber of Commerce did not play. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] What did Ryanair want to do behind this Laudamotion? – A collective contract for his employees, after which many get a contract with which they are below the poverty line in Austria, dear colleague Meinl-Reisinger! The trade union cannot agree with this, and there will never be an agreement from the trade union, dear colleague Meinl-Reisinger! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] To the representatives during these negotiations: In negotiations on sectoral collective agreements, all trade unionists employed in this sector are represented. The Laudamotion Works Council, when it was done, has not yet been able to do so, so it cannot be involved in the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a request from Mr Dagmar Belakovich on the resolution of the Chamber of Labour. To do this, you can only say one thing – that has already been said by one of the previous speakers –: This is really just an application to disband the Chambers of Workers, just about the detour of the disposals. To the reserves you can only say: The reserves are needed to maintain, renovate, modernise and build necessary infrastructure in order to: (i) to make investment reserves. The reserves are also needed to ensure partly running and partly future performance, the digitalization offensive of the nine workers' chambers running from 2019 to 2023, which now provides 150 million euros to support them. And what's very, very important: Especially in times of the Corona crisis, where there are many insolvency and will still be, we will need these setbacks in order to support the workers affected in order to get to their right. One thing I have to say: We're celebrating this 100 years of workers' chamber. If the Chamber of Labour did not exist, we would really have to invent it because it is urgently needed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just to conclude: People come and people go, but the Chamber of Workers, which remains.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17877	Mr Loacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17901	Madam President. Mr Keck said that it would have been a question of paying salaries below the poverty line. I'm actually correcting: The salaries that are colported here by the union side are those that are paid if the employee does not fly a minute a month when he is only at home, and as soon as he flies, of course, he gets much more. Therefore, the allegation is not justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17935	We are in the process of evaluating what is an actual correction according to the Rules of Procedure, where we were already in the morning. I would suggest – because I believe it is a fundamental question – that we take this on the agenda at the Presidential Conference. Next word: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e17962	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, Mrs. Minister, thank you for sitting without a mask, very good! I see that your colleagues from the ÖVP are doing quite well. We discussed the subject of short work in detail yesterday. The social crisis has been triggered by the corona measures of the Federal Government; perhaps again very briefly: There are now over 1.3 million people in short-time work, who receive between 80 and 90 percent of the net wage, which in part already results in massive cuts in their salary. That's a huge problem. They have promised that the money will arrive quickly and unbureaucratically at the companies – that is not the case, of course, and the application is very complex and complicated. That's a huge problem, and in total, I'd say, rather a punch. In Europe, there are much better short-term models than we did in Austria. The main problem, however, Mrs Minister, is that we have now reached a cost range of just under EUR 13 billion – EUR 13 billion! The total cost of all the Corona measures is now 50 billion euros. We have seen yesterday and today that zeros are very likely to play a major role, so if you forget zeros, that can have massive effects. These 50 billion: That's a number with ten zeros. Let me briefly discuss a bit of philosophically about zeros, after seeing that the topic of zeros has become a huge theme not only mathematically, but also in real policy! I have already shown the Taferl yesterday, I will show it again This is the EU Commission's budget in the next few years. [[keeping a table with the title “EU budget 2017 – 21: € 1.85,000,000”]] Just look at the zeros! There are very, very many zeros, and I think we should eventually discuss whether this is still rationally understandable, whether these zeros still have a value, at least if one is in front of them, how these zeros should ever be operated, and if the whole monetary system is still tangible at all. What is very tangible, Mrs. Minister – here I am with you – is that the workers and employees, the people outside the bank account feel quite real, but these zeros here or even the zeros in the budget are actually irrational soon. It would certainly be a topic for the next weeks and months, that we are discussing how this can fit together at all. Yes, it was a very exciting plenary week at all, I would say, there were very interesting voting stories. For me, it was all new today: The Greens are obviously against the protection of trans-persons and against the visibility of LGBT-persons. [[Calls to the Greens.]] To this end, you have voted negatively on the requests made by our colleagues today, if you remember. But the greens were interesting for the wind music today. I also found this very interesting, so I already see a development process in the greens. [[New calls to the Greens.]] I have to say one thing: If this goes on with the Greens, we can invite them to our Sunday parties soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18028	Next speaker: Mr Michael Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18050	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, we've got a repair here, which is about checking pay-related charges. This is a story which, in principle, goes far back from the objective, which has already emerged from previous contributions, that is to say, to the year 2002. At that time, the then government groups in Parliament had already begun, in the course of the 2nd session. To unify the examination of pay-related taxes. At the time, it was established that a audit body of the Financial Office or of a health insurance institution would carry out these tests and that it would be more efficient to do so. With the reform, the one with the first. In January 2020, the aim was to further increase this service orientation and efficiency. A test service for pay-related charges and contributions has been set up and there the competences are bundled. As has already been pointed out, this has been repealed by the Constitutional Court and is therefore to be changed. What does the amendment or correction look like? – It has continued to be known as an audit service, it remains, and the competence for the tests is due to the competent audit service or also to the health insurance fund. It also establishes a right of guidance for the institution which was originally entitled to raise, because this was also a point that the Constitutional Court suggested. After Mr Koza has already tabled an amendment, I can add another amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Michael Hammer, Josef Muchitsch, Mag. Introducing Markus Koza, colleagues and explaining in his fundamentals – he will still be distributed. In essence, the amendment concerning the Federal Act on the Examining Pay-related Fees and Contributions concerns the involvement of the Public Staff, Railways and Mining Insurance Agency. A second point is that the tax-free amount for food vouchers for employees already regulated in the course of the gastronomy package in the Income Tax Act is now also being implemented in the ASVG as regards the freedom of contribution. The ASVG also regulates the fees for the assessment of patients at risk so that they are regulated accordingly. Finally, as we are also discussing a request from NEOS on short work at this item on the agenda – I think we cannot say it often enough –: Corona short work in Austria is an absolute success model, and about 1.3 million workers can be kept in employment. It will now also be extended as needed so that we can also achieve the objectives we have pursued in this way, and that we can keep many people in employment. That's a success story, and it shouldn't be bad for you. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[18:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18327	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines, was distributed and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18351	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Minister! High house! Well, the way is the goal, and the way, if we decide today on the Federal Law on Social Security Audit, is a shorter one than that of the government parties. We have not needed the help of the Constitutional Court to realize that self-management is a principle that is deeply enshrined in the Constitution. We also did not need the help of the Constitutional Court to realize that their own examiners of the local health phone – now the Austrian health insurance fund – are more specialised and professionals. We've seen in the last few days, we need professionals. We need professionals to control numbers and other things. That is why it will be important to have the claims of employees in the future examined by the social security auditors and the contributions auditors at the Austrian Health Fund, which is all the more important because of the fact that, of course, abuse is also in the room that false reports, incorrect levels of collective contracts and so on, reduce contributions. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Especially in the period of Corona, we see how important it is to be properly registered to acquire unemployment insurance contributions, how important it is to obtain a pension level as well. That is why this recent contribution review is all the more important, which is now coming back to where it belongs, namely to the social security auditors of the Austrian Health Fund. This brings back confidence and the security that our employees deserve. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to add the following to Mr Loacker: I don't know anyone who can feed a family with around 850 euros. I think it's a system, and if that's what someone in Austria wants to do, then the land permit belongs to him too. It is true that people deserve to have a charge from which they can live. [[Congratulations and bravado with the SPÖ as well as congratulations to MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, all of us, when it comes to a correct, correct collection of contributions, must be concerned with preventing wage and social dumping. [[Abg. Loacker: 70 percent of the crew...!]] Wage and social dumping is a subject which will continue to grow in the future. Especially when we look at the deficit: We currently have the state that we are losing around 16.5 million euros in contributions every month – in April of this year, about 19 percent – and if we know that 1.7 billion euros have been lost by the merger, we need to say that we need these contributions. [[Abg. Loacker: This is better than unemployment...!]] We need security again, and in this sense I also ask for full support in these areas. I do not think that abuse is a matter for anyone, especially the workers and the companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18419	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18444	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! I was quite surprised and I was very pleased now that the NEOS are on the one hand a party that sees that it may not be so bad if you talk about it. On the other hand, on the other hand, Mr Loacker's request: In this, he has put a flat-rate condemnation of entrepreneurs into space, saying in the motion for a resolution that, when you sign up for short work and it turns out at the end of the year, you may not have gone into bankruptcy, but you have achieved a profit, then you should be taxed higher. In the second paragraph, it is also stated that one should also look at the fact that, if there has been higher subsidies for a company, this should, in future, pay a higher corporate tax or income tax for later profits. – So for me, this does not sound like a liberal economic party, but rather a system of punishment, which, in my opinion, calls for a tax increase from the NEOS. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] Where I am with you, this is with the union in relation to the Laudamotion. So if it's so far that – and maybe you should think about it – employees go to the streets to demonstrate against the union, then, I think, something is in the arsenal. [[towards SPÖ]] You always assume that we are not with the companies and are not talking to the entrepreneurs. Mr Stöger has explained very clearly how this should work with entrepreneurs. He has made it a task to be responsible for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises in the future, and has said that he would be for a general termination protection, so that one can no longer cancel. - I'm with you now. I think you have understood perfectly well the complaints and fears of entrepreneurs during the crisis period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Stöger, I was really shocked when you said in committee to Mrs Bundesminister and to me personally: Mrs Bundesminister, what would you have said if it were a SPÖ minister? Mrs Bundesminister, you owe 200 000 unemployed! – I think this is a groundless cowardice, and I say it again here. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] In short work, we have helped 1.3 million people to stay in employment and not slip into unemployment. I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say something to the trade union: The union continues to call for a 30-hour week, a 4-day week, a sixth holiday week. I think it is not the time and not the framework for it. It should not be seen that people are in non-employment and unemployment benefit is increased, but that they are getting into employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18522	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and therefore proceed on the agenda. [[18:38:12]] 31. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 528/A by Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law amending the labour market service law (194 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18561	We're now on the 31st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18589	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! The short work, which is such a huge success model, as we have heard before, must now be rehabilitated with this law, because some weaknesses have shown themselves. You have to imagine this – we have heard it here more often in these days –: Of the 12 billion euros of promised short-time work funding, only 0.5 billion euros have been paid, among other things, because the billing of short-time work contains such a thickness of rules that tax advisors rise the gray-leaf and the wage calculators go to burn-out because this is not feasible. So, and now the repair comes: In the middle of the fight, in the middle of the short work, after more than two months the repair is coming. What did you do? – After all, it was not clear whether this guarantee is true – 80 percent of the net will at least have you! – refers to the total content or only to the out-of-date hours. It was also a bit problematic that the table values according to which the short-time work at the AMS was calculated had led to major deviations from what was then replaced by companies in relation to what the actual costs were. There was the question of how to solve this now. Now the farms can choose between four variants of the billing, which are now all permitted. You can now expect the outage of the total fee with the real values or the default of the total fee with the table values of the ministry. However, they can only take the replacement in relation to the downtimes and not in relation to the total hours, each with real values or with the table values. This now allows four billing variants. So if one else knows, he's a genius anyway. However, the software houses now have to write the pay conversion programs, these four variants all programme because not every customer of the software house chooses the same of the four variants. A tax advisor must also be able to handle all four variants and offer his customers because not every customer of the tax advisor wants to use the same of the four variants. That which has already been complicated and murked and in which the wage calculators and tax advisors have labored in two and a half months, that it now works halfway, is now again being retorted, in the middle of the maneuver the command is changed and now four variants are allowed. Imagine that for the road traffic regulations: You don't know whether to the right or to the left, just go where you want, because you can choose it. – Somehow that's the law now, and that's this great short work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] It will therefore take even longer for companies to submit reasonable accounts, which will then be reimbursed at some point. The aid does not come because it is too complicated and because you do not manage to simply acquaint the short work aid, to send a part to the firms so that the liquid is, and to make the detailed settlement sometime later. You just forgot.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18640	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18661	Madam President. Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Contrary to some unknowings, short-time work is simply a success because it has secured between 1.3 and 1.4 million people in Austria in the middle of the crisis job and income. The company has secured the short-time work know-how and experienced employees – and especially the opportunity to get back on track as quickly as possible when the economy gets back on track. It's not a misproduct, it's not bad, it's a very successful product. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] The short work is thus something like a rescue ring for the Austrian economy and its employees. Although the worst part of the health crisis is hopefully behind us, the economic crisis is unfortunately far from over, and that is why the conditions for the second phase, i.e. for the next three months of short work, are created today. The social partners, trade unions such as the Chamber of Commerce, have agreed on a model based mainly on the positive experiences of recent months, while at the same time trying to fix the mistakes of the past at least once for the future. Yes, of course, there are also errors when measures are put in place. If we did nothing, no mistakes would happen, but fortunately, we did something – and the social partners did the same. Maybe very briefly: What is new about the model from an employee's point of view? – Once short-time workers have received only 80, 85 or 90 percent of their income, they will be paid more accordingly if more than the agreed working time is worked; that is the one point. The second point: If workers are to work longer than they are registered, they should or must be informed about this at least three days before. There is also a very welcome new rules for apprentices. In this context, it is important to note that, in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to ensure that the Community's economic and social cohesion policy is based on the principle of equal opportunities for men and women in all Member States. So what we decide today is due to the experience of the short work of the last three months. On the one hand, we want to prevent over- and under-payments from taking place in the future by cutting down the flat-rate rates for short-time work from 50 euro steps to 5 euro steps. On the other hand, at the same time, the billing is simplified by changing practically to a gross settlement based on net salaries. With the newly revised short work – based on the expertise and experience of social partners, businesses and employees – a model will be extended to provide security in an economic uncertainty phase, which is particularly important now. This proposal has already received broad support in the Committee, and we are now asking for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18713	Next speaker: Mr Josef Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18743	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! [[The speaker put a table entitled ‘Unemployment 01. to 05’ and a line chart representing the development of unemployment for the years 2019 and 2020 during the period under review.]] [[Abg. He's got a shield!]] The good news: Many companies will not benefit from the short-term work phase two due to the easing measures, which will reopen business, the slow recovery of the economy. That's the good news. But there is also a survey of a Vienna consulting firm of 188 companies – mentioned yesterday on the APA – in which the major companies say: After the short work, there will be a reduction in staff. That is why it is so important to extend this short-term work, which is why it is so important to bring on the journey fast economic packages, to create measures to strengthen consumption and purchasing power and also measures for continuing and training those who are now out of work. The short work for me is a symbolic bridge, a bridge over a valley of crisis, which must be so large, so broad and as long as never before in the Second Republic to get over this valley to normality. That is why I would like to thank all those who have worked there, namely, on the one hand, for the social suspension through this short-term work model, two, 80 to 90 percent net replacement rate. – Thank you very much to all trade unionists, but also to all the representatives of the economy who have participated that this net replacement rate remains true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, I also thank you very much for the changes. Yes, 13th. ==References====External links== In March the social partners presented the first model. That is why it is also important to admit that there are now simplifications, there are now reliefs, there are now improvements in the field, so that apprentices also receive a higher short-term work allowance if they slide into the next year of teaching or successfully handle a LAP, and other points that Mr Koza has already mentioned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact is that short-time work is a means of providing the best possible support for businesses with their employees in order to get through this crisis. I am telling you today that we will also need a short-term model of three. Let us learn from phase one and phase two, let us take along the things where we can and must get even better, because we also need a phase three! Let's use the summer to work on this phase three! Let us think about finding industry solutions too, because this crisis will not end in September and because we need further action there! Any form of short-time work, whether criticized or not, is better than becoming unemployed in any form of short-time work – that is the most important message. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]] It's good, it's nice that we've all brought 1.3 million people into this short work together – all entrepreneurs and all business councils together with politics – but we're also thinking of those who didn't manage to see you here in front of you, the 523 300 unemployed! Finally, I appeal to the ÖVP: We're celebrating Pentecost now. Pentecost is a Christian feast on the 50th. Day after Easter is committed. It is ultimately about the descent of the Holy Spirit to the apostles who returned to Jerusalem, who were able to carry the Word of God into the whole world in various languages. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... Ministrant...!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The Holy Spirit!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Perhaps the ÖVP uses it to think about Pentecost to ensure social harmony, to let thinking in the head change direction, so that we do not forget about these people and do not leave these people behind, because 55 percent net replacement rate for unemployment benefit is simply too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18867	Next: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18889	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say: Now I'm a little confused. I don't know any more, Mrs. Federal Minister. In the Committee on Wednesday, Mr Fürlinger told us: This short-term work model is actually only intended for the companies, because it is not about the workers. – In the last item on the agenda, Mrs Kirchbaumer said: We have saved 1.3 million jobs. - So what now? Is it about the individual workplace or is it just about businesses? Maybe you could explain it to us, Mrs. Federal Minister? You have also not spoken, I think that is something strange: They come here and don't talk about an item on the agenda, which is rather unusual. Perhaps you are so kind and explain to those colleagues who are not in the Committee, and to the ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, how this is exactly what it is now! [[Abg. Matznetter: Total nice today... Belakovich! That's nice!]] Why is this really so exciting and interesting? That is because Mr Loacker has not told me any more. He has submitted an application that you have firmly rejected. In fact, it is a question of extending short work to those workers employed in a farm whose headquarters is not in the Austrian federal territory, but who live here in Austria and who pay their social security contributions in Austria. For these people, the model of short work is not possible. This was rejected by the two coalition parties. Mr Fürlinger gave the following reasons: It's not about the individual workplace. – Maybe you are so nice and now explain this again: What is it really about? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will give our consent to the actual request, even if it is a bit complicated, but of course it is important to be able to extend the short work, because we see that the economy is not starting as fast as we would have liked. That means: Of course, there will be many who are happy to be able to extend the short work further; no question. What Mr Muchich mentioned before he obviously excavated something from his old ministrants' activities was the increase in unemployment benefit. This increase in unemployment benefit was also something that the two government parties in the Committee did not decide to do. But they did not reject it, but they gave it a contract with the reason: It's working on it, it's looking for a solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] Now we know that the ÖVP does not want this solution at all, because the Klubobmann and social spokesperson of the ÖVP said to colleagues Muchitsch: These people should simply and simply seek minimum security. – In real life, however, this usually does not work, because if I get some 800, 900 euros of unemployment benefit, I am no longer entitled to apply for minimum security. That is to say, already in the Committee there has been a cold spot on the part of the ÖVP. Nevertheless, in the course of the discussion, I had the impression that movement has come in, but you have rejected it. One is a particular concern – I would like to say it again, because neither you nor the Minister for Social Affairs have delivered an opinion in the Committee during the budget debates, but you take note of it: It is about the situation when an employee lives with a risk patient in the same household. If you have a spouse, have a partner, have a child in the common household who belongs to or belongs to the high risk group, there is no solution. None of these two ministers, who are sitting on the government bank today, have found a solution to this problem or give an opinion that they might try further. The Minister of Social Affairs has said: You have to see that you split up in space at home. – As it is, he does not know for himself. He is also Minister of Health – he would have to know that all persons in the common household are of course exposed to the same germs. This is not possible in an apartment or in a family house. You, Mrs Minister, have not said anything about this. This is an essential point of labour law – especially for those affected. I don't think it's infinitely many, but I think these people belong to help. They need a legal claim in order to either work or be exempted in their home office. Imagine the following situation: A couple have a seriously ill child. The one has already had to quit to do the therapy with the child. The other one who may still have his job, is the only family owner, can decide every day: Do I go to work and risk my child in the evening or do I quit what makes our family fall into the waterless and have to live by the minimum security? Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to know that from you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18963	Next word: Mrs Tanja Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e18987	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! We have already heard that the model of short-time work is one of the most important tools to secure jobs. Mr Loacker, your concern about the short-term work model, that we have to repair something et cetera, may I point out that the Short-Work 1.0 model, if we may call it, was mainly in use during the 2009 economic or financial crisis. Since then, we have not really had to renew or evaluate this model on a continuous basis – fortunately, I say. Now we are in a crisis where we need to look at this model again. One must also admit to the minister that if she takes over a model, she can also repair it step by step, depending on the experience we have gained in this respect. That is why this request is being made. Based on the experience of entrepreneurs, we would like to make the bureaucratic obstacles easier. The first point is that we get rid of this obstacle once. We have initially mastered the obstacles to the application together, we have simplified it, and now we are simplifying the calculation of wages. For the four models you have addressed: This is a social partners agreement. [[Abg. Loacker: I don't have to take that into the law!]] This was done with the expertise of tax advisors and wage calculators. Maybe I can remind you: We have super tax advisors and super wage calculators. Underestimation You don't have this industry! These four models can easily apply them and also handle them. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One thing you also have to say: The whole thing is not going without bureaucracy, because short work is a tax-financed support. The AMS is responsible for exact wage accounting, for one thing I would like to say as an entrepreneur: What we certainly cannot accept is a promotion abuse. I can only say one thing to those who think that they can enrich the taxpayers: There's zero tolerance from us. I also say this as an entrepreneur, because we have so many decent entrepreneurs, who are not to be put into a bad light by various abusers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] To sum up, I can say that short work helps naturally in the difficult times, but it should not become a permanent burner. We do not want permanent short-term work, but we want full employment for the economy. What we do not accept is an abuse of short work. We want to get Austria back to the top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19044	The next speaker was Mr Klaus Fürlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19076	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I'm in an inner state: As long as there is no Sunday fair and then Father Beppo Muchich comes and reads us the Pentecost message! [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call to the SPÖ:But he has an advantage over Sebastian Kurz: no self-consecration]] Unfortunately, Mrs Belakovich, you immediately put me in a state of slight amazement of my condition, because in the last two to three days you have repeatedly been from the Committee, in which I was also sitting – there we met – but none of the quotations you brought out here, regardless of whether by me or by someone else, was right or complete, so that I already had the impression that there might have been another committee in which we did not meet. [[Abg. Belakovich: I mentioned it anyway!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In the final state of amazement, I am now slid off when the highly esteemed colleague Loacker told us nothing about his request in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the recognition of short-time work for entrepreneurs who have no place of business and no tax number in Austria, but who have employees in Austria, has simply failed to do so. It's a novum for me. He's mandated you. For me, the fact that FPÖ and NEOS maintain such close cooperation on social rights is something that has easily amazed me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] However, I should like to comment on this request – and that is the point I want to make in the matter myself – that: Mr Loacker has requested that companies enter into the short-term work model, which does not have an establishment in Austria but has employees here, and the debate has begun that there is a social partners agreement that only companies with establishments in Austria are encouraged with short-term work support for the companies and the employees here in Austria – because we cannot control, Mrs Belakovich, whether there is no double funding. How do we know we haven't been promoted in the other country? There are numerous boundaries and companies that we have. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing against it when someone is legally optimizing for tax purposes, but part of this model, where I have the establishment abroad and the employees in the country, is usually designed to do so; and I do not think that we should then consider to the Austrian taxpayer that he should pay tax money from such a good project as this short work – and then I will meet you again, Mr Muchitsch, Mr. Muchitsch. In this sense, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19151	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19181	Mr Fürlinger, one thing has to be said: They are in a masterful, namely, in twisting the facts. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] It is indeed true that my colleague Loacker has made the request that employees who work in Austria and pay taxes and taxes in Austria, but who have a German employer, also have a right to short-time work in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This means appropriate insurance for employees in Austria, and you have rejected them. However, I would like to come to another point – because I have only just mentioned myself very briefly –: Mrs Aschbacher, we have a great deal of speciality today. We had a number of colleagues in the House today, and both the new Secretary of State Mayer and Vice-Cancellor Kogler, Foreign Minister Schallenberg and all the other ministers present today have held a dialogue with the Members. The Members have given a speech, and the Ministers have also responded to the best of their knowledge and consciences. You are the only minister sitting here today, listening and not responding. We would ask you very much that you also address our points. We find the failure of a hardening fund, but also the short work we are talking about on various points worth mentioning on the part of the Minister. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[19:03]] [[19:03:57]] Vote on agenda items 27 to 31
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19233	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now coming to the votes, and I am asking, as agreed, whether we can take the vote at once or whether they wish to interrupt the sitting. – There is no need for interruption, so I will now vote. Agenda item 27 vote: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 169 of the supplements. Whoever is for the notice, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 28: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 170 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. Agenda item 29: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on the Examining of Pay-related Charges and Contributions, the Income Tax Act, the Municipal Tax Act and other laws, into 171 of the Supplements. Mr Hammer, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Koza, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Hammer, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Koza, Mr President, and Mr Cot, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning a change of title, as well as amendments to Articles 1 to 5. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this also to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, on the Round Table for the Protection of Jobs. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on agenda item 30: Draft Federal Act amending the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act in 172 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament have tabled a total amendment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law, including the title and receipt in 172 of the supplements, as amended by the amendments tabled by Members Hammer, Muchitsch, Koza, colleagues, and others, to vote in favour. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. Vote on agenda item 31: Draft federal law amending the labour market service law, including the title and entry into 194 of the supplements. Whoever speaks out for this bill, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who gives his approval in third reading? – The draft law is adopted by a majority in third reading. [[19:08:28]] 32. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 426/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on New overall strategy for COVID-19 testing (156 d.b.) 33. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council (Doc. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on COVID-19 Blood Plasma Donation Initiative for Science & Research and Acute Therapy (157 d.b.) 34. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 512/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on electronic vaccination: Supplement to Corona immunity (158d.b.) 35. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 473/A(E) by Michael Bernhard, colleagues on the study of environmental influences as factors in COVID-19 diseases (159 d.b.) 36. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 511/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on flu protection: timely procurement of vaccines against influenza (160 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19444	We shall now proceed to points 32 to 36 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Verena Nussbaum. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19472	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Total Covid-19 strategy: For two and a half months we all live in Austria with significant changes in everyday life. The uncertainty in the population remains great – not only by the government’s frights, but to this day there is no overall strategy for these Covid-19 tests. Not even in all nursing homes and disabled facilities, the entire staff has been tested, although this has been announced, although almost all residents belong to the risk group. Since the beginning of this health crisis, we have called for people to be given the opportunity to be tested. There would be great advantages for free, publicly funded regional test roads. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are now more and more different antibody tests, and there is the problem that the quality of these tests is so different that quality assurance is absolutely necessary. According to the Homepage of the Ministry of Health test capacity of up to 15 000 tests per day would be possible, but only 434 302 tests were carried out today. In other words, in the final effect, the capacity of six weeks has not even been exhausted. Mrs Köstinger now says she would like to introduce 65 000 tests per week in tourism from July. Yes, is each ministry now making its own test strategy? – Mr Health Minister, you must give us an overall strategy, it cannot make every ministry its own! [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschhober]] “It costs what it wants,” we heard again and again, so it can’t fail in money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] The electronic vaccination card is very short: We know that, unfortunately, digitalisation in the health sector is only progressing very slowly. Since June 2018, it would have been planned to send the electronic vaccination passport on the way and use it in test regions. The legal basis is still missing. At 2023, I don't know if it's going to take off. But in any case, what could happen is that we can also include the immunities in the electronic vaccination passport, especially those that are possible due to the tiger regulations. Until then, it may also be possible to detect immunity to Covid-19, and then it can be included. So this is supported by our side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19541	Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19565	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! The last health committee was a very exciting experience for me, because one is always talking about opposition to government, the government fractions are not listening to the opposition, and, and, and. We were then quite constructive in the last Committee on Health and Safety, and in total we had three requests from the NEOS, which we have either adapted and decided together, or which we have been able to take as a basis for a joint resolution, or could actually implement one. I am glad, because this proves that it is also about constructive, joint work. Thank you at this point for this input in the last Health Committee, first of all by Mr Loacker! I would like to make a brief comment on these three requests: The first concerns – it has just been addressed – the entry of the Covid-19 immunity in the E-Imppass. This, of course, increases the project accordingly. The E-Impfpass should have started already in June, but it has just been postponed due to the Covid-19 crisis. Instead of the three states that initially co-imported, which support this project, it should now become six, maybe even eight – I heard somewhere blatantly – but six, I think, was the last fixed number. That's a good story. That's where we're going. This makes sense and, as has already been said, this whole project will be re-estimated accordingly. The second request concerns the question of research into the relationship between environmental factors, such as air pollution, and the severity of the Covid-19 disease. This means that the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the GÖG or the Ages should provide data and, above all, provide for an international balance. That too is a good idea, a good approach, I am sure that this is a very important issue, which is important not only for health policy but also for environmental policy. The third request concerns the issue of the supply of vaccines, in this case for the use of influenza. There have been interesting developments in recent days: on the one hand, the announcement that the influenza is to be included in the Free Vaccination Programme for Children, on the other hand, the presence of today's national health experts, that the vaccinations are generally to be charged via the cash registers, on the other hand, on the whole. – This is one thing that we may even be able to approach at the end of the day. We must, of course, first of all clarify the question of financing, just as I said yesterday. It's not just that there's an infinite amount of money available. But we must look at that, and we should discuss it tabulously, as I said yesterday. But I would like to use the question of vaccination as soon as possible: Unfortunately, in the last few days it has been a little difficult for God for the people, because many have now believed that the vaccination requirement is coming. We, the health spokespersons of all five political groups, have clearly opposed us in various interviews. Unfortunately, some country politicians have meant that they should expand there. Fortunately, this too has been clarified today: There will be no vaccination. I would like to say this again for the Greens: There is no vaccination with us. – This is important for people outside, because there has been a great uncertainty about this in recent weeks. In this sense: Thank you for the constructive cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS! It's been a lot of fun for me. I hope that we can continue to work together in this way in the next health committees. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19611	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19632	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The events of today have thrown a bit over my speech concept for today, and I have to start quite unconventional by thanking the Federal Minister for Health. I would like to thank him for having made the first request to terminate the mask duty after more than seven weeks – and this week alone we have made four requests that were all rejected – today, at a press conference together with three other members of the government, announced the end of the mask obligation. Thank you very much. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bernhard.]] I would particularly like to thank you, on behalf of all those people who, in part, were angry with me, partly in despair, how much they have suffered under the mask obligation, health, psychological or even discrimination in different shops or at the workplace, because for them the wearing of a mask for health reasons was simply not reasonable. Although this was basically regulated as an exception in your regulation, this has not been communicated accordingly, and this has resulted in many misunderstandings. I would also like to thank you, however, because you have made me hope that our suggestions, our constructive criticism, which we have tried to introduce since the beginning of the crisis, may in future be taken into account more often and more closely in the future. One of these points that we have been demanding for a very long time and on which I have been trying to bring in constructive input for 13 weeks since now – I have been looking at it – is the subject of the test strategy. It started with the first measures at Schwechat Airport concerning the Chinese travelers and the measures adopted by your ministry at that time: Fever is measured by people who had a direct flight from China. Even then, I said: If you want to do it properly, I would suggest that you isolate the people and immediately carry out a PCR test, and if this is negative, the person can be released from isolation again. It would also be appropriate to take into account travellers via interlocutors, via Moscow or Dubai or the like. In the final effect, this is the strategy that you have now pursued within the framework of your checking policy and Containment Strategy. We now only need this now in the normal tests to which I have said that the access thresholds, the absolute presence of disease symptoms, are just one at a later time to make the PCR test. In order to avoid unnecessary quarantine measures and to put people in fear of testing, testing should be carried out as early as possible and no restrictions should be made on public testing. Unfortunately, I can tell God from my own experience, at least in Upper Austria, it is still such that only people who are confirmed by the doctor that there are already suspicious symptoms. It is not enough for people to say that they have had a contact, they must have symptoms to come to a free test. That's basic falsification. Why is it wrong? – Because it extends the period until we discover these infections potentially, and even if this does not seem to be a problem at the moment, because the number of infections is low, the other would simply be the right approach from the strategy. A third point in the field of testing, which is also part of a common test concept, is the subject of cross-sectional testing. This is something I was very pleased with eight weeks ago, as You yourself have announced: From now on, there will be cross-sectional tests every week! Then there was the first cross-sectional test carried out by the Sora Institute. It was a little small, it was not quite the way it would have been desired from the power of speech and quantity, and it has also produced surprising results. The next weeks, however, this cross-section test no longer took place, and that's why they - - - - at least you haven't published these tests. [[Federal Minister Anschober: Yes!]] There has only been another cross-sectional test of which you have reported to me, also in the framework of our joint discussions or of the Health Committee or of Parliament. Otherwise, I have not heard of any cross-sectional tests on the Austrian population. In doing so, we needed them in order to understand the epidemiological situation more clearly. If you do this in an appropriate order, at least 5 000 to 10 000 tests, then you can also go into the detailed analyses of these tests, then you can look at where the risks are, and then we can better vote on all the measures. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] I just keep saying very briefly – I keep brief –: I would like to express my hope that, in addition to this test strategy, which was rejected in the Committee, you may find such a one or even more in order to see what I have proposed, perhaps also the scientific survey, the data collection, on which we have a request on the agenda today, that perhaps you are still thinking about the obductions, that you are thinking again about the plasma donations of the sick – and that you have already made some kind of change approaches – and that you may be more open to our suggestions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19683	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19707	Madam President. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Right at the beginning: That it is today to announce further easing from 15. It is not due to the fact that there were applications made by the FPÖ, but to the fact that the Austrians have behaved in such a discipline that they can now come to these easings. [[Abg. Worm: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Deimek: What you yourselves are...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The figures speak a very clear language 434,000 tests. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is another Murks!]] We have heard that from you, Mrs. Colleague. What makes me very happy is the number of 15 347 genes. These genes can become life rescuers by donating blood plasma. Each healer also receives an invitation to submit a request that he has this opportunity to donate blood, because the blood has formed antibodies, and people who have come with a smile through the infection can help others who are less well by their blood plasma donation. There are calls for this, and I do not think that any additional information is needed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kaniak.]] Mr. Kaniak, you know just as I do this note, which is delivered to every healer. [[a flyer on which two nurses are pictured and the title “Become Lifesavers” to be read, keeping up to date]] I think this information is on it: “Become a life rescuer now”, is clear and does not require any further explanation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I'd be glad if there were as many of you as possible to comply with this request. We still hope, of course, for research on vaccination and highly effective drugs, but this is a first way to really help; “out of love for man”. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19801	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19823	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Schalmeiner has already mentioned it: This was a good committee with very constructive discussions that we have experienced there. But I would also like to say two more moves to the masks. I think it's good that the students don't have to wear masks in school after 14 days, but why do they have to wear them again for 14 days? – Please stop it, I think it is an impotence to let seven-year-olds and eight-year-olds walk around with masks! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] I'm afraid you'll be bringing back in two months a study that tells us how many infections there would have been if the students hadn't worn masks in the 14 days. All right, let's get to the committee. The electronic vaccination: We have seen in this corona crisis that the possibilities offered by data processing are being used very badly in the Austrian health system, and it is good that the Committee has now reached a majority conclusion that we are also designing the electronic vaccination passport in such a way that any coronaimmunities can be kept in it. We also talked about the fact that if there were a second wave of Covid-19 diseases, the important thing is that we did not then have the hospital beds with influenza disease and therefore would be favourable to a higher rate of vaccination in the flu. For the winter of 2020/21, this will no longer be the case with the ordering of additional vaccines, because manufacturers and dealers have so much lead time that a few weeks earlier one should have had to be on it, one would have wanted to buy larger quotas for Austria. I take the Committee's positive decision at least as a decision to have a greater supply of influenza vaccine in winter 2021/22. I am afraid that the people are now sensitized, who will want to have the flu vaccinated in the autumn and then will not be there enough vaccine. This has been a little sleepy – with regard to the pace, you and I are sometimes just different views. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Scherak.]] I would like to address Mr Kaniak's request for the Coronatest strategy. I'm in his opinion. What the Ministry has sold us as a strategy so far is a strategy, but not a strategy. You have announced that you will present a corona strategy in two weeks. We don't have one yet, and what's absolutely crucial - – – yes, there's already one – – yes, but look at what Mr Kaniak has done: [[Federal Minister Anschober: Yes!]] [[Federal Minister Anschober: Read the homepage!]] If someone today is diagnosed with a Covid 19 disease and lives with other people in the common household, they will not be tested if they do not show symptoms. So we can never discover new flock and superspreader fast enough and cast the whole thing in so that it doesn't spread further, because such things take time. The average incubation time is six days. You don't go to the doctor on the first day, but look at how you're going tomorrow, and then you're already on the seventh day, and as long as it often takes you to experience your test results, it's three, four, five days, depending on which state you're home to, you're soon at two weeks, until you know how the PCR test went out. At that time, the people who were infected by one person have already infected more. It's all too slow! We have to be much faster, and that does not lead you to the process you now have – only testing if symptoms exist. You also have to ask yourself what the strategy is: How do we do now, when a disease occurs, in a school, in a hotel, at a construction site? Close the whole hotel in summer and send all the guests home because an employee is ill? – We do not know and you cannot delegate the responsibility to the director of the school or to the owner of the hotel or to the operator of the construction site. Why do I say you can't? – Because You said you're against a regional differentiation, you want it federally. If you want to, you are also guilty of federal uniform answers. How do you do? You can't believe the parents have to expect a 14-day school degree at all times, just because their child is in a school with 600 students, where there may be a Covid-19 suspicion case. This situation is also clear, and there must be much faster. There must be answers that allow the normalization of daily life so that everyone – the workers, the entrepreneurs, the parents, the students – can rely on what happens when a corona case appears somewhere. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19886	Mr Rudolf Anschober has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e19911	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! It's a good thing I'm drinking to colleagues in Loacker. We always have a nice sporty discourse with each other, I think that's good, that's constructive, not insulting, everyone has his positions and often we learn from each other and convince each other – that's how politics should work. [[Abg. Loacker nodds.]] I can only join him. The last meeting of the Committee on Health, which is exactly the same as my policy: We listen to each other, people make suggestions, we examine them and see if they can be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Abg. Worm: That's not true!]] Mr Wurm, it is true that your proposals have not been feasible in recent times. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the Greens as well as with representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] That may be up to me or you; there are two ways in this regard. [[Abg. Soundmeiner:... in the smoking committee!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] Mr Wurm, let us return to the seriousness of the situation. We still live in the middle of times of the greatest pandemic for saying and writing for 100 years. [[Abg. Worm: You say that!]] – “You say so,” he says. - Okay, if you don't even believe that, then I understand you've infected these buttons all the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] – “Coronahmindness”, yes, okay. Everyone has their attitude, I don't want to take yours away from you. It has been the biggest pandemic for 100 years, and we can all be really proud of each other, the citizens and all those who have contributed to it, that we are now in a situation where we have largely controlled this pandemic in Austria – largely; it is not yet solved, but we are very, very good on the road. The balance sheet figures of today: We are not so far down with the number of active sufferers as many, many weeks ago, Mr Worm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] We're sick at 640, which was a 20 percent minus in the last three weeks each week. This is the most beautiful success you can have in this context. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We only have more than 100 hospitalizations, i.e. people who need to be cared for in the hospitals – this is also a 20 percent minimum. We are among the people who need to be cared for and treated in intensive care stations, in saying and writing only more than 25 people. - That's great numbers. There you can say what you want: Let's be proud of each other that we're on our way now! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Because of some, like Mr Worm – now I have found my sparring partner in the discussion; I just have to think about the others, that is, I think, better – it has been discussed again and again whether it has been necessary to do this lockdown – apart from the fact that the Freedom Party has called for something right at the beginning, namely this lockdown: He was right, he was necessary. We all would have liked to give up, but it was the right instrument at the right time. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Say the...!]] You know, last week the Max Planck Institute evaluated the measures for Germany and came up with them: It was 100 percent the right action. We realized about the same thing. This is not a new invention either, it is always the same package of measures in case of an epidemic, namely the creation of spatial distance, the implementation of hygiene measures, and the continuation of this until there is a direct drug or a possibility of vaccination. Dr. Popper – not only the name testifies to wisdom, he himself is also very clever – is currently making the capacity forecasting for the hospitals with his team for us in Austria. He does this quite well, he has de facto always met the developments, tells us ten days in advance how the utilization figures in Austria will be – that is very important so that the hospitals can plan – and now he has done a modeling, whether it was the right time for us to realize this lockdown. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] He came up with the following: If we had acted a week later, only a week later acted, then we would have had four times more cases of illness in Austria and the intensive care stations would have been exhausted. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Worm]] Perhaps we have also been lucky, but luck belongs to the discipline, I tell you, Mr Worm. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Now it's about preventing the second wave. Even here we will all be holding together again and need everyone again, because we need the citizens who participate, we need the right measures, we need the right opening steps and the controls at these opening steps. If we could say today at this press conference – yes, we are not opponents of press conferences, I admit – that we will have the next opening steps at 15. In June, this is not our merit, but then it is the work of the citizens who have consistently implemented what it needs in this country. [[Rejoicing with MEPs from Greens and NEOS]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We can prevent this second wave if we do three things, and I am optimistic that we will do this: first of all, by consistently continuing to work on this issue – including you, Mr Worm; secondly, by going here and then, if there is a counter-trend, taking immediate action; then there may have to be some measure again, perhaps that is also necessary regionally, but there is a need to counter it quickly. The third – I am totally on a line with colleagues Loacker, namely as regards the analysis, not as far as the conclusion of it is concerned; the analysis is correct –: It is crucial that we are very fast in such situations, first of all in testing, second in contact management, therefore our rule: three times 24 hours maximum for the competent authorities on site. That's where we have to be fast. To the tests: Where are we today? – Some have said that there are few tests in Austria. So: A large university, Johns Hopkins University, has just made a global ranking on which countries have tested how much, converted to 1,000 inhabitants. Well, what do you think Austria's where? On the number 120? On the 80th place? On 70th place? 40th place? On the 30th place? Is there a 20th place? – Yes, in 10th place. In 10th place worldwide! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Here again, too, I agree with Mr Loacker: We need to go even more wide, so we're doing the screening programs. We must go into the broadest range where we have suspicions, therefore the broadband testing of the health care staff as well as in nursing and old homes, but also in institutions for people with disabilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucher]] Thirdly, this is what this Vienna-Niederösterreich cluster has shown us – we obviously have to live very closely together with people who are in very precarious situations and work situations. There the protection is extremely difficult, and that the virus can spread there, has an absolute logic. We now know studies, for example from the USA, concerning the meat industry – thousands of people infected because the working conditions there are dramatically bad and difficult. That is why we now have to look offensively into these structures with screening testing programs in Austria too, and that is what we are doing. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] This is what we are doing now because we don't want to get under the carpet, but look where the issue is, where the problem is, and then react with contact person management. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] Mr Loacker, it is quite simple, there is exactly this strategy for contact person management. We are happy to sit down and go through this again. I know that not all data is public in detail, but it is a direct, direct instruction for health authorities to do so. This is a priority, because they know immediately what to do first, second, third, if there is a positive test result. 24 hours these authorities have time to complete the contact person management K1 – this concerns the narrower group, the immediate contact – so that we do not lose time. That counts every hour. You've really analyzed this. We have also drawn the consequences. It's all there is, that's what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Three points to the previous speakers or to the agenda items: First: Using plasma for people who are ill, works in very specific areas. There are three healings of people who were most ill at the Medical University of Graz. This has worked very well in people who have thought that they are no longer saved; therefore every healer in Austria receives an information letter immediately after his recovery, in which he is asked to make himself available so that we can benefit from these resources. This is a point that is absolutely necessary and correct, and there we sit in the same boat. Secondly, electronic vaccination. Here too, we're trying to make a move. I look forward to the fact that the House is still in June, I hope that it will deal very intensively with this issue and that the legal requirements will be met, because I believe that we agree on content. We want to build that up in time in autumn and see that it will then be from 1. January 2021 can be implemented in a first version. And as you said, we're going to bring the data. As far as the overall rollout is concerned, I am very confident because now much more federal states are entering the test test. The last, that has been said correctly – it was again Mr Loacker –: Influenza vaccination is a key issue because it threatens us – and it will not only threaten us once, I fear – that two major epidemic situations overlap. We have experienced it a little in the past winter; this could become sharper and more difficult in the coming winter. That is why our first step has been to include influenza in the children's vaccination programme as a free vaccination offer for all parents who are willing to do so. I think that would be a big step towards vaccination of individual vintages. This could make great progress, and that is to be made available free of charge, I believe that both social policy and health policy are a real step.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20105	The next speaker was Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20127	Madam President. [[Call the SPÖ: short, please!]] Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the last Health Committee, we have dealt very constructively with various aspects of the Covid-19 disease, and this is also important because the epidemic that pandemic has not yet survived. That is a very essential point, and that has nothing to do with fear. I'm not scared. If I were afraid of any infection, I wouldn't have been a skin doctor. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Cuckoo.]] It is a realistic view of the risk that we are still exposed to. It is enormous what we have achieved in Austria under the cooperation of all the forces and all the people here in this country, and when someone goes here and says: If nothing comes to mind, everything is over; if, as before!, he threatens the reached, sabotages it and brings the economic upturn that is beginning to seefully – I say the keyword: Summer tourism – in danger. We must keep on being careful, reasonable, paying attention to one another! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Move it.]] I would like to refer specifically to a request that has been made by the Members of the NEOS, for which I would like to thank you very much for referring to the relationship between environmental influences and disease. It is remarkable that the course of disease is often very, very different and often very dramatic, but also surprisingly positive, regardless of the classical, defined risk groups. It is important that we deal with the question of what the environment contributes to this. Of course, we think first of all of air pollution, of the quality of the water, of soil pollutants, and of course we must take into account that all these are not independent factors, but that they are interwoven with other factors that certainly have an influence, such as social conditions, occupational conditions or age structure in different areas. That is, it is a complex story, and it is important that we collect good data there – on the one hand, so small space that they are meaningful, on the other hand aggregated enough that the data protection is protected. Which is also very important: In Austria, we thank God for relatively few cases, and in order to achieve meaningful results, international cooperation will be very, very important. Finally, I would like to return to something that is an old concern of the Austrian People's Party, namely the eco-social market economy. We repeatedly stress that economy and ecology are no contradiction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] I would like to take one step further: Economics, ecology and health depend on each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20188	The next item is Mr Dietmar Keckzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20213	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister that this mouth-nose-protection duty with 15. In June, I think, I am really fine; I am here to bring you, Mr Federal Minister, only the following example of this morning at the hotel: There are clear guidelines when a oral nose protection is to be worn and when not. Today, for example – some of them have come to mind because several Members stay at this hotel – the forces there have said that the mouth-nose protection is to be carried permanently during breakfast. – This is a thing of impossibility! You can't do that. The easing regulation provides for wearing the mouth-nose protection when entering the hotel, then you can take it and the story would have been done. Others have said you also have to wear the mouth-nose protection when you go to the toilet. – In some cases, measures have been put in place that are unlikely. The same thing happened in schools. When you look at this, you have seen that measures have also been taken there, such as those that students, folks, have to wear the mouth-nose protection even during the break in the school yard. There have really been devastating things happening! Explain to a seven-year-old folk student why he must carry him in the rest of the schoolyard, another, his friend, who goes to another school, does not have to carry him! So I think it's really good that the oral nose protection gets away uniform for a short time. But now to Mr Kaniak's request on ‘COVID-19 blood plasma donation initiative’. Whenever I hear blood plasma, it reminds me of my teaching time and federal army. There's very little to earn, my learned profession is hairdresser, and I earned 50 schillings in the course of the week, for example, which was very little at the time, and you also received 50 schillings for a blood plasma donation. That is, we improved our apprenticeship content very well at the time, and this has contributed to the federal army too, so I know what it means to donate blood plasma and what is done with it. Many didn't do it. I think it is good that Mr Kaniak's proposal has been accepted that all Covid-19 patients in hospitals, if they are healed, receive this note that they are invited to volunteer for a blood plasma donation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] The Minister of Health or Social Affairs has already said this: Three severely ill people could be cured with a blood plasma donation at the Graz University Hospital if they want to call it that way. It is necessary that this continues to happen, because if a second wave is really to come, at least one has so many blood plasma reserves that one can immediately help miscarriage.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20264	The next speaker was Mrs Alexandra Tanda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20285	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I would like to join with my previous speaker Mr Schwarz, who has already referred to the calls for donations by various institutions, in particular the blood donation services of the Red Cross together with the Ministry, and also to the treatment options with reconvalescent blood plasma. In my native Tyrol, the Landesverwaltung has also launched a call, always under the highest premise of the voluntaryity of the donation, and thus the blood banks of the country have sufficient reconvalescent plasma. Covid-19 patients have been treated with this reconvalescent plasma at the Tirol clinics since the beginning of April. A brief survey on blood donation services three days ago has shown that in eight out of nine federal states – unfortunately, I have no data from Upper Austria – about 25 patients have been treated with reconvalescent plasma until now. On average, a patient receives two products, i.e. 50 plasma donations have already been transfunded. In stock there are currently 254 plasma donors in these eight federal states. Due to this stocking, some doses have already been delivered to the pharmaceutical industry, which gains antibodies from it. It is absolutely right that people in our country should go to the plasma donation, not only in Corona crisis times. In my opinion, the institutions are focusing on two important points: on the one hand on the own responsibility of the population – and I also feel that this behaviour is in the sense of a solidary crisis management – on the other, on raising awareness through the broad information campaign and the call for voluntary donation. The campaigns are against the background that enough plasma exists, obviously targeting and absolutely sufficient. In principle, the situation is currently such that we have a lot of donors and also donors, but on the other hand hardly any patients we can treat with them. On the basis of these facts, an individual, that is, personalized, call for genes by the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for voluntary blood plasma donation is neither necessary nor useful. Even if this individual call should be made to previously covid-19 infected persons by the Authority, taking into account all data protection principles, I find a somewhat self-evident side-effect. I am concerned that there may be a bashing if a healer does not want to donate and that will become known in his environment, even though this has certainly not been the aim of Mr Kaniak's request. The donation of blood and blood plasma is a social policy and never a political issue. The plasma donation is an invasive measure and must always be absolutely voluntary and remain without intervention by the State or an authority.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20331	Mr. Peter Wurm, you're next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20355	Mr Anschober, you are certainly much smarter than I am, but I trust you to be 100% aware that all your regulations have been wrong in the last few weeks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since the colleagues from the ÖVP and the Greens are now almost all there, I would like to ask you a question: Ladies and gentlemen, how deep do you really want to fall? [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Lower than the FPÖ not!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That was a serious question, I can also explain it again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] The last few days we are discussing covid measures. [[Abg. Maurer:... the budget!]] The opposition submits applications, rejects these requests, and also argues negatively. Then the big press conference will be held today at 2 p.m. - That's where you'd have to feel crazy! [[To President Bures:]] Excuse me, I'll take it back! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But planted!]] My question is serious! They lead this Parliament completely ad absurdly. Are laws now being made at press conferences? That's a serious question. That is where we can lock this Parliament! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This question is serious. They make themselves up, argue negatively to all things, reject everything, and have no master. At 2 p.m., the press conference is held by these four gentlemen and they suddenly announce: 15. June – all return! Masks are no longer important. There is no one left a mask in the Members' series, even with the Greens there are only a few with masks. [[Abg. Kugler:... Distance!]] Suddenly more than four people can sit at a table in the local area, the students no longer have to wear masks, and the blocking time is shifted to 1 o'clock, because from 1.30 o'clock it is dangerous again. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So, Mr Anschober, your regulations are basically wrong and wrong. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] It's not clear to me that the following – some have asked me – is still the following: Can I dance with other people at weddings? [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] You should clarify that again. The question is in space, you may be able to explain that. [[Abg. Jewellery: The question is whether you want to dance with anyone!]] I have now engaged myself in the same advertising agency that the government has. [[The speaker put a table on the speaker’s desk, which shows a column diagram under the heading “Number of deaths in Austria from 2009 to 2019”.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] I'm learning now, you have to repeat, repeat, repeat. I repeat it again: These are the deaths of the last ten years in Austria: between 76 000 and 84 000 deaths, a delta of 8,000 cases, spread over the years. No one has so far been able to explain to me – and the Minister anyway – how this comes about. How does that come about? How does it come about? Nobody can explain it. 8,000 cases in the last ten years, that doesn't seem to have bothered anyone, but now we have 650 – under quotation marks – “Coronatote”, and we have been in Austria for three months. That, Mr Minister, you have to answer, you and the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20528	Next speaker: Mr Werner Saxinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20549	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Auditorium: Mr Wurm, a complex crisis requires a differentiated, respectful approach, and that is exactly what we are doing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now on the subject: There is a magical magic word that could solve many Covid problems within a short time, which we all wait for, and that word means little surprising vaccination. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It can be claimed with fug and right that with the presence of an effective covid vaccination in sufficient quantity and with good tolerability, the crisis would have at least ended epidemiologically. [[Abg. Stefan:... You can't donate plasma!]] We do not know how long it will take until there is such a vaccine, whether there will be six or twelve months, but it will work intensively around the world. [[Abg. Loacker: Lange!]] Then there is this bizarre and incredible situation that we have an effective vaccination against the annual flu epidemic, but only a few of it. Most recently, it was only 8 percent of the Austrian population. Do you understand such a thing? I don't understand personally. [[Abg. Belakovich: I do!]] We can all learn from the Corona crisis and protect ourselves better if it is possible. The Health Committee also discussed this subject in detail. A few facts about influenza vaccination: The vaccination rate last year was only 8 percent. 750 000 doses of vaccine have been administered. A higher vaccination rate of 20 percent is found in the 60- to 90-year-olds. More than half of the vaccines can be re-vaccinated each year and every third vaccine has benefited from an offer from its employer, mainly those under 50 years of age. The annual flu epidemic burdened the hospitals, and it seems that we accepted it, although it would not be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal must be to increase the rate of vaccination in the flu, even in view of the fact that we do not have so many intensive patients on our intensive care stations in any other corona wave. [[Abg. Belakovich:... more Coronawelle?- Oh, my God!]] I also believe that there has been some awareness in all of us. I also expect more people to be vaccinated against the flu this year. [[Abg. Loacker:... the vaccine does not give!]] A refocused survey has also shown that 25 percent of respondents over 16 years would definitely be vaccinated or more against flu, with the age group 50 plus even 38 percent. Flu vaccine is plant-bred, production takes a few months and it takes a long lead time. It is now one before twelve, not one after twelve, to obtain flu vaccine, so it's high time. No one would understand if we had too little flu vaccine just because we didn't think foresightfully of coronatraumatized. [[Abg. Loacker: We will have too little...!]] In this sense, we support the request to obtain flu vaccine, as the Minister has said. Finally, I also have a pious, positive, constructive desire against vaccination: Vaccinate instead of rubbing and evaporating! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20664	Mr Michael Bernhard, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20689	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The corona crisis and the mild or severe course of the diseases have brought to light a topic that has really been working on us in environmental policy for a very long time, in the connex with health policy, namely the question: What is the significance of air pollution in lung disease? There is – and I want to come back to the evidence now – already relatively much clarity. For the first Sars Pandemic there are studies that are also peer-reviewed, which have clearly shown: With a high level of nitrogen dioxide in the air, the mortality rate is 100 percent higher. With slightly increased air pollution, mortality is still 84 percent higher. At the Covid-19 Pandemic, there have also been studies which have not yet been reviewed, so that one cannot say in conclusion what weight they have, but they are well-founded. A Harvard University study has 3,000 districts in the United States analyses and finds that mortality is highest where air pollution is also highest. There is also a similar study from Europe, from the Martin-Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, and this study also says that in Italy, Spain and Germany, for example, 78 percent of deaths occurred in those five regions that had the highest air pollution. All of this is not a 100% certainty, and there are thousands of other parameters that still have an impact on how difficult a covid disease is, but I am very glad that my request to the Health Committee, namely that at the level of the Austrian regions and districts, is concerned with the type of air pollution that contributes to the problem of disease, has been adopted or has been revised by the government parties and then put to the vote. I would also like to thank you at this point for the constructive cooperation in the Health Committee and wish us all a nice evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20726	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20782	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I get into the subject, let me lose a few words on the discussion about the Laudamotion! Several different collective agreements for one and the same industry have a massive distortion of competition, and as a trade union we do not agree to this collective agreement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] They also protect the companies. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that our health system has worked well in the Corona crisis, and it will work well in the future, if you, Mr Federal Minister, do not listen to Mrs Mei-Pochtler's advice. We must ensure that we do not slumber from a health crisis into the next health crisis. What am I talking about? – It is true that patients who have had to delay their rehabilitation must now have delayed their treatment, in order to preserve them from suffering consequential damage. We will need a lot of money to get the health system back to the old level. We have already informed several times that the financial situation of the Austrian Health Fund is not the best. Without the loss of contributions from the Corona crisis, only the Fusion Costs forecast EUR 1.7 billion by 2024. Mr Schellhorn put it to the fore this week: The support for entrepreneurs can be a backpack that can affect themselves in such a way that, when the duration of the claims becomes striking, there are more insolvencys. The Federal Government needs a good plan to keep both the ÖGK liquid and to protect entrepreneurs against insolvency. The health system's employees have been in a strong position for months now, with the rise of the health system, and that is why we demand once again – and we insist on it – for all employees who cannot stay at home, for all the workers who had to work because they were needed, still the Corona Thousands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a good and sensible investment, because this thousands are certainly not speculated on the stock exchange, but one thing goes into the domestic economy. Over the last few weeks, we have seen the threatening consequences of the sluggish demigration of the production facilities of the pharmaceutical industry from Europe. Delivery bottlenecks are on the agenda, and so it was partly before the corona crisis. It is good that now protective masks and protective equipment are being again produced in Austria. However, it is more than necessary to bring the production of medicines and vaccines back from Asia to the European Union or Austria, because then it would be easier, as my previous speakers have mentioned, to get vaccines in time, for example in the annual wave of flu, and therefore we also support the request for timely procurement of flu vaccines. We also welcome the absolutely sensible requirement that the relationship between environmental factors such as air pollution, fine dust and much more and the severity of Covid-19 diseases be examined. The Possible Influence Environmental factors on individual disease events will play an important role in this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, it will be essential to have appropriate data on the one hand and to respect data protection on the other. From my point of view, it is something really essential, namely to learn from this crisis for the future, to be better prepared for the people who live in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude with my speech as the last speaker. Father Beppo Muchich told me that I should have given you all a contemplative – I would almost have said "Fronleichnam" now – you know what I mean. [[general hustle and bustle]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e20876	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Is the reporting – if the reporting can hear me at all – a final word wanted? - That's not the case. Before we come to the votes, I again ask the clubs whether a part-session is wanted. - I don't think I see it right. We shall then proceed immediately to the votes. Vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 156 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 33: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 157 of the supplements. – Notice accepted by the majority. Vote on agenda item 34, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 158 of the Supplements on 'Electronic Imprisonment: Supplement to Corona immunity’. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. [[53/E]] Vote on agenda item 35: We shall first come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 159 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 473A/(E). Who is for this consideration? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on ‘Environmental Factors and COVID 19’ attached to the Committee’s report 159 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[54/E]] Vote on agenda item 36, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 160 of the Supplements on ‘Gripe protection: timely procurement of vaccines against influenza’. Who's calling for it? – This too is unanimously accepted. [[55/E]] [[20:09:32]] 37. Point Third reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment 409/A by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, MA, Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 4 December 1989 was adopted. The Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) were amended on July 14, 1975 (147 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e21035	That's what we're getting to 37. Agenda item. As the requirements of § 108 of the Rules of Procedure are fulfilled, we shall proceed to the vote. Since this draft law is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure specify the presence necessary for the vote of the intended number of Members. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft law in third reading. – The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. [[20:10:35]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e21071	There is a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 2, 6, 7, 15 to 21, 29 to 31 and 37 so that these parts may also be deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: Agenda item 2: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 186 of the Supplements, shall be adopted at second reading in separate vote and in third reading [...], taking into account the amendment proposal.’ Agenda item 6: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in 161 of the second and third reading supplements in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 7: ‘The amendment Annex 7/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in 162 of the supplements in second and third readings [...], in accordance with the Committee’s proposal.’ Agenda item 15: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request, in 77 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 16: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request, in 78 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 17: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request in 79 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 18: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request in 80 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 19: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request in 81 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved. The motion for a resolution Supplement 19/1 EA is hereby adopted.’ Agenda item 20: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request, in 82 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 21: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s application in 83 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 29: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 171 of the Supplements, shall be adopted in the second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 29/2.’ Agenda item 30: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 172 of the Supplements as amended by the amendment.’ Agenda item 31: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 194 in accordance with the Committee’s proposal. Agenda item 37: “After the 24-hour deadline has expired pursuant to § 108 GOG, the present draft law – in the presence of the planned number of Members – will be adopted in third reading [...] – with the required two-thirds majority.” I ask you whether there are objections to the version or content of these parts of the Official Protocol of your part? - That's not the case. Thank you many times. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[20:14:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00034_d8e21203	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 591/A(E) to 632/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.15 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
