ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9127	I should like to welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, very much. The meeting was opened. I welcome the members of the government, and I welcome the ladies and gentlemen of journalism and those in front of the televisions at home. I would ask that the staff from the government offices – there are very many in the hall – also distribute at the gallery. I can say to the spectators that we will be sitting in thin seats and that in the future not as many people as now will be in the hall at the beginning. Members will follow the meeting both in the roof foyer and in the premises of their offices, where the meeting is to be held. That is to say, it is not a rollover parliament, but quite the contrary: We're all here. For the vote – also for the Members – Before each vote, the club members are asked whether the vote can take place or whether a interruption is necessary so that the ladies and gentlemen can come from the respective rooms. The official protocols of the 60s and 61s. Meeting of 5. November 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported today, Franz Leonhard Eßl, Mag. Michael Hammer, Klaus Köchl, Mag. Christian Ragger, Bedrana Ribo, Maund Süleyman Zorba. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9186	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9358	Mr Wimmer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. On the date of self-employed motion 993/A(E) tabled by Mrs Wimmer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘The conclusion with the social-political missteps of this Federal Government – the discount-free pension after 45 years of work must remain urgent’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. I may announce that the ORF will transfer the meeting as usual to ORF 2, to 1915 in ORF III and then comment in the TV library. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9391	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 to 9 and 10 and 11 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9412	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure have been agreed for the present day a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’, so that speaking times are as follows: 185 minutes for the ÖVP, 128 minutes for the SPÖ, 105 minutes for the FPÖ, 95 minutes for the greens and 76 minutes for the NEOS. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for today of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 38 minutes, limited to 5 minutes per debate as usual. I also need permission at the following speaking times: For Wednesday, 18th. A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed on November 2020, giving the following speaking times: ÖVP 176 minutes, SPÖ 122 minutes, FPÖ 99 minutes, Green 90 minutes, NEOS 72 minutes. The speaking time for those Members who do not belong to the club is 36 minutes each, 5 minutes per debate. 8 ‘Vienna hours’ were agreed on for Thursday: ÖVP 156 minutes, SPÖ 108 minutes, FPÖ 88 minutes, Green 80 minutes, NEOS 64 minutes. The speaking time for those Members who do not belong to the club is 5 minutes each 32 minutes or more per debate. The members of the Presidential Conference set out for the deliberations on Agenda items 10 and 11 the elements of the debate to be taken into account on the agenda. In any event, the intended breakdowns will be discussed at the end of the day and the meeting will be suspended thereafter. Resolutions can only be submitted in the case of the respective breakdowns. The vote on agenda items 10 and 11 will be taken on Thursday, 19. ==References== The votes on any motions for resolutions tabled shall be taken after the third reading in the order in which they are submitted. The term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used. If the 20 minutes exceed for each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed the 10 minutes for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, the overdue speaking time shall be taken into account in each case at the time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor in the general debate held under the Budgetary Accompaniment Act shall be as long as it does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft and the speaking times that have just been presented. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:11:13]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (408 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which a federal law on the grant of a federal grant and other subsidies on the occasion of the 100. Re-establishment of the anniversary of the referendum in Carinthia (Departure Insurance Act 2020), a federal law on a grant of purpose due to the abolition of access to assets in the housing of persons in hospital care facilities for the years 2021 to 2021, a federal law providing for the provision of permits on federal assets in order to cover the need for covid-19 vaccinations and rapid tests, a federal law on the financing of the Association for Consumer Information in 2021 and a federal law on the fight against pandemic-related poverty consequences (COVID-19 law), as well as the law on fees, the court organisation law, the Federal Law on Experts and Interpreters, the Federal Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz, the Night Heavy Labour Act, the Handicrafts Regulation, the Covid-19 Emissions Act, the Health and Food Safety Act, the University Law 2002, the Research Funding Society Act, the Bundesmuseen Act 2002 and the Aviation Act (Budge Accompanying Act 2021) (440 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law on the establishment of a Covid-19 deposit and on the provision of federal assets at the time of delivery from this camp (COVID-19-Lagergesetz-CO-LGG) (441 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the financial statements for 2019 (III-137/443 e.g.) 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (343 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location (446 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (412, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology (447 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the report of the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology on the ÖBB Framework Plan 2021-2026 (III-189/417 d.B.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on amendment 984/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Sobotka, Doris Bures, Christian Hafenecker, MA, Sigrid Maurer, BA, Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, Colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rehabilitation of the Parliamentary Building (PGSG) (442) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 983/A by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on Special Funding of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs Funding Act) (445 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (410, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on Austrian contributions to international financial institutions (IFI contribution law 2020) is passed and the Bundeschatzscheinsetz is amended (444 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9601	We come to points 1 to 9 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. The debate on Agenda items 1 to 9 also includes the general debate. Mr Klubobfrau Dr. Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. I can give her the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9629	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In October, over 420 000 people were unemployed in Austria. That is almost 70 000 people more than in the same period of the previous year. Since 1946, there has been no winter with such high unemployment. The situation on the Austrian labour market is dramatic, it is dramatic for the affected people who have no job and face an uncertain future, it is dramatic for the economy, because this purchasing power is missing over the next months and probably years, and this situation is dramatic for us as a country and as a society. The second lockdown – we have the first day of this second lockdown – will further intensify this development and this dramatic situation. It was just before the second lockdown that the Wifo, the economic research institute, assumed that because of this seven, eight months period, the gross domestic product in Austria will fall by 6.8 percent – 6.8% less GDP! This total lockdown, which starts today, will continue to break our economy and will continue to cost tens of thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands of jobs. A current forecast of the Wifo is based on a risk scenario which, according to Austria, will result in a fall of more than 9 percent due to the recent lockdown. It's not a Lapperl! One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen, we are standing here today and in the next two days discussing a budget that will not be kept in this form and cannot keep it. Apparently, as well as in Corona crisis management, health crisis management, there is also a lack of prospects and prospects in this regard. The economic recovery for next year is de facto cancelled according to these current forecasts, the forecast has practically absorbed the recovery. The second wave of pleite and termination of the local economy has already begun before the second lockdown began, a few months ago, especially in areas of the large domestic industry, but also in the area of tourism and gastronomy. It will now roll across our country with an even greater weight. If the economic researchers and the ministries are dealing with numbers and curves and talking about forecasts, we, who are sitting here as representatives of the people, always need to know one thing: These are numbers that people stand behind, fates; these are families, children, young people, women, older people. And yes, these figures include entrepreneurs who have had to close their small or larger business in recent months from today to tomorrow. I have met many of them, some of them have made huge investments in their own businesses last year, in their hotel, in their inn, have received loans. All of you now have an uncertain future ahead. Yes, there are also employees who have often worked for a company for 30 years, a company in which their parents have already worked or their grandfather has worked, a company in which their children are currently teaching. It is young families who are affected like lightning and do not know how they can continue to finance and shape the future of their children. Unemployment consolidates from day to day in Austria. This is a highly dangerous development, because it is mainly people from 50 onwards who are virtually chanceless to find a new job at this time. I met some of them when I was in Spielberg in Styria at an ATB operating meeting. More than 200 people have been canceled there – by the way, a company that has received large state aid from tax money in recent months and has nevertheless declared more than 200 cancellations and will move the location. They simply transfer him to the low-cost country, to Poland, and here the Austrians are released. I met a lot of women who are three years ahead of their retirement. The pure despair speaks from the eyes of these people when talking to them. – I do not know if you have done so, Federal Minister, it would also be your job to talk to people and those concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to a forward-looking, hopeful pandemic fight, it is the main task of our Federal Government to combat unemployment in our country with all, with all the means really required. This is a great responsibility that must finally be taken over. Our country needs a courageous, active, forward-looking labour market policy, a labour market policy to start today and not just tomorrow, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The employees and, I say quite consciously, the small and medium-sized enterprises also need, because they feel left alone, especially one: They need strong, active and courageous competitors. Who, if not us and the Federal Government, would have to be these competitors and rivals? If the budget is the policy that has been put into figures – and that is what it is in my view – the government with this budget has a chance, namely the opportunity to be fellow workers on the side of the workers, the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of our country at this difficult time. The government would have the opportunity to present a budget that is, in fact, the figure-based fight against unemployment. Does it look like this budget presented is exactly that? Is this the means you are spending to combat unemployment effectively over the next few months and years? – No, unfortunately, it does not look like this opportunity that exists now is being used by you. If jobs are to be deleted in a large style or if entire locations are to be moved abroad, such as Poland, then you can't watch, then you have to act quickly. I only met with MAN from Steyr's works council yesterday – I was on a warning strike with 2 000 or even 4,000 employees and many sympathizers there three weeks ago – and he said they broke off the negotiations with the management, they are not going on, they are not coming up with a step. – I wonder: Where are you, dear Federal Government, to support these 2,000 and more employees at MAN? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All these actions of yours – there are some here and there – are observant. The budget presented shows approaches, but these approaches are not enough, they simply do not meet the dimension of the largest economic and labour market crisis in the Second Republic. Their projects do not meet this dimension, they are not ambitious enough. Especially in the field of care and climate protection goes more, much more. Unfortunately, it is not the strong and courageous promise of the future that makes one who creates confidence in the population and takes its uncertainty. A large, courageous, historic and effective economic and employment package for Austria, which strengthens the economy and creates jobs, was needed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This has become even more important today, today the total lockdown is starting for our country – thanks for this note, very much to many Austrians –: [[Call at the ÖVP: He's already started!]] Economic, social and education is going down to a zero point. That is why this action, the need for ambitious and strong commitment to jobs and economy, has become even more important. It needed a large, historic tax reduction to secure small and medium-sized incomes in order to strengthen purchasing power, and a labour market shift towards re-training and further qualification, not in small but in large style and thought wisely, especially towards care. This is an important area, which is too little to be found in your budget. A plan was needed to create apprenticeships and to close the apprenticeship gap. Yes, there is also a need for a plan, as it continues after the short work, foresight in this area would also be important. This requires ambition and courage. I am aware that the economic aid, which is now becoming much more through this second full lockdown, is very heavily burdened by your budget, Minister of State. That is why you cannot decide to simply postpone a tax reduction, which is why They do not say that investment is now only being taken care of and the labour market budget must be small. [[Abg. Hanger: You didn't read the budget, did you?]] On the contrary: They would have to act all the more ambitious and all the more courageous! Mr Finanzminister, this is the wrong way, because this is driving the spiral down. It is also wrong to save those who have worked for 45 years: Their pensions are to be quietly and secretly reduced by 10 percent, with the argument that one cannot afford to pay attention to stability. Instead of introducing solidarity charges for large online companies such as Amazon, the government is the first to shorten the pensioners who have worked for 45 years. This is not just fair, it is cold-hearted and economically inaccurate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by referring to a very important area, to the financing of hospitals. Corona has shown us how vulnerable we are and how much we all need a public, functioning hospital system. Our hospitals, nurses and nurses, doctors and doctors are in this century pandemic the immune system of our society, and I find it more than without responsibility, Mr. Federal Minister, and far from any reason that you have been cutting down in your budget in this biggest health crisis for 100 years just at the hospitals – but it happens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This reduction is an attack on our hospitals, an attack on our health, and that in the midst of the pandemic. I therefore urge the Federal Government to compensate for this budget hole. We shall make a request for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9718	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9740	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The 2021 budget, which is available to us, must be handled under very difficult conditions. We have been in the middle of the biggest pandemic for 100 years and we have to deal with the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe and all over the world. This budget also means, above all, taking responsibility for the people of our country and focusing on locations and jobs. We have set up a total of over 50 billion euros in economic, labour market and economic packages. That we can do this in Austria is only possible because we have managed well in recent years because we have been careful not to spend more than we take in good times. This is the basis for the fact that we can handle these billion-hard packages at all. The financial policy we have made in recent years is the basis for helping the people concerned. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We're not just saving lives, we're saving jobs and businesses. We relieve citizens and ensure investment in location and competitiveness. Absolute priority, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, is the fight for every job: We will spend a total of 29 billion euros on active labour market policy next year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] I don't know in which budget You have printed, Mrs Colleague, but what I see is billions of short-term work. Overall, we will make up to 8 billion euros available for short work in the next year and next year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the short work that has secured many people the income that has saved many entrepreneurs from bankruptcy. This is a good solution, which has also been developed together with the social partners. This year and next year, we will make a total of around 8 billion euros available for short work. This is a success model in this difficult time. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Furthermore, for the coming year and for the year 2022, we will set up 700 million euros for work foundations. It is precisely about re-schooling that we qualify for those people who have lost the job through the crisis to return to the labour market – many companies and entrepreneurs need and are looking for people despite the difficult crisis situation – and it is about bringing these people there as soon as possible. This is only with re-training and qualification, and we will provide 700 million euros in the next two years. They say we didn't do anything for the purchasing power. Mrs Collaborative, I would really like to rebut this [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We have made one-time payments for the unemployed, we have reduced taxes, we are in the middle of tax relief; that is implemented, it has been paid out within a few weeks. We have also reduced the tax rate by 5 percent, which is also retroactive for 2020, from 25 to 20 percent. We have supported families – not only those who have a difficult situation to deal with now – but we have paid 360 euros for each child in September with the family allowance, ladies and gentlemen. That is help that comes, that is help that is being done quickly, and rapid help is known to be twice as helpful. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What is included in the package is the pension adjustment for the year 2021. I have been here for a number of years as a representative of the people, and I cannot recall any such adjustment to the pension. We raise the compensatory allowance rate, that is pure poverty reduction, ladies and gentlemen. We understand: Especially now we need to strengthen low and lower pension incomes, we raise 3.5% in the lower area, because it is precisely those people who need it. [[Abg. Loacker: Which employee gets 3.5 percent?]] The pensioners are at our heart and we need to strengthen their purchasing power right now so that they can fight their lives as well. Therefore, this pension adjustment comes with a very strong support in the smallest, lower range. That's help coming, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now on economic aid – you can look at all countries with an open eye –: I now produce this 80 percent, which the companies which have now been closed down again, be it the host, whether it be service companies such as hairdressers et cetera, and get it right. 80 percent compared to the turnover of the month of the previous year November: This is a very good support, too, because these companies also need this money, because the business will not go as it is possible at other times, even if it is then reopened. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] This aid is coming quickly. When you talk to those concerned – even in these rows; I don't call them names – they say: You did well! It's fast! [[call to the FPÖ.]] – We have 30 000 applications with a volume of 900 million euros, and 800 million euros are already on the way. Thank you, Minister of Finance, for acting very quickly, that this aid also comes quickly to those affected. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I call the investment premium of EUR 2 billion, and yes, if necessary, we will increase it, because it goes exactly into the regional economy, which will ensure the location and, of course, jobs, especially in rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I would also like to mention the municipal billions because the money is the last one that arrives directly on the spot and is also spent there. We also invest in education, science and security. There are plus 1.2 billion euros for universities. I would also like to mention the new location for the technical university in Linz, for which the foundation stone is now laid. EUR 235 million for digital education: This is especially at this time a very, very essential additional support especially for the children and the parents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] More money for security: Especially in these days, the security theme is particularly focused. We equip the police with a special equipment they also need, and there are 4 300 additional planning stations for the police. This is a security policy that people in this country have also earned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Especially in times like this, we also see how important our federal army is, how important a functioning national defense is, also for the cooperation in contact tracking. In this difficult situation, in the pandemic, we increase the federal army's budget by more than 8 percent – more than 200 million euros and additional funds for disaster protection and cybersecurity, because we are lucky to be able to live in a social country but also live in a safe country; for this we invest with this budget in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that it is about three things: the struggle for every human life, the fight for every job and the struggle for every operation. With this budget, Minister of Finance Blümel creates a solid foundation on which we can all build together in order to be able to successfully master the existing and coming challenges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In this sense I appeal to you: Let us stay together, let us keep up and decide on this budget that will help people in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9858	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e9880	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! With the current week a quite eventful year in 2020 is, I would like to say almost to a more unusual and dramatic facette richer. We must imagine that in the coming days we are discussing with the 2020/2021 budget a number of figures that have already been shot together and broken down by the government which it has presented, just as it was in the case of the 2020 budget, which we discussed a few months ago, together with the same method as you did at the time, namely the imposition of a total lockdown. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Kogler.]] To remember: This total lockdown is the one of which the representatives of this Federal Government have explained to us that he is not at all possible. The Minister of Health still hears the ducks quaking today, since when we put this lockdown in the room. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm talking about the lockdown that's coming right now, where the number of infections you're bombarding the Austrian population with every day – according to the motto: our daily press conference gives us today! –, again in the fall. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: But not the hospitalized and intensive patients!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, during the budget debate, the Minister of Finance said: “Every number we know today will eventually be wrong.” – I think when he left that sentence, he thought he was particularly sophisticated. In fact, it was nothing but a political revelation in terms of budget planning. But the findings he gave at the time are still true today. It also applies to this 2021 budget, because you are the Minister of Finance, because the virological quartet and because the Federal Government has completely failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing here for a cabinet in Austria in 2020? – This is a single refugee camp that sits there to the left and to the right of me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] We have an interior minister who is a responsibilities in the fight against Islamist terror. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] We have a Minister of Health and a Federal Chancellor, who are both refugees of responsibility in connection with Covid-19. [[Call the ÖVP:But hello!]] We have a Minister of Education, who is a refugee of responsibility in connection with the school chaos, in which parents can now only get their heads on account of the condition you have set up. And we have a Minister of Finance, who is a single refugee of responsibility in terms of sound budget planning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] That's how it looks! 0 per cent responsibility, 100 per cent salary: This is the Austrian Federal Government in 2020. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This 2020/2021 budget is the numerical proof of the chaos that you have donated to Austria since the beginning of the year and that will have disastrous consequences beyond this year. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] The consequences are so disastrous that you don't even trust to write the impact into the budget, because the whole hard lockdown you've ordered now is not even shown in terms of numbers. You can only be congratulated, Minister of Finance. Once again you managed to be surprised by an event that you have been preparing yourself for a few months. That's also a master achievement, I have to say, and the coldness with which you refuse to adapt this numbering work according to it makes you almost inconceivable, I want to say. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister, I would like to say one thing: Keeping distance in these days does not mean keeping aside from the budget truth; there you have understood something wrong. Hand hygiene in these days does not mean washing one's hands in innocence, given one's own inability, which becomes more obvious to every Austrian every day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Entrepreneurs, workers, children, parents in this country must be flexible, they must show an incredible degree of adaptability. Over the night, you have to adapt to new circumstances, just like it does. The Minister of Finance is not in a position to do this. I tell you one thing – because many of us have also pursued the U.S. election in recent weeks: Against you, Minister of Finance, the famous "Sleepy Joe" biden is an allusion of agility and performance in terms of attention. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are in the Meanwhile not only the youngest dementia patient in Austria, but you are also the most expensive waste paper producer - - [[strong contradiction with the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10017	Mr Klubobmann, I give you an order for this deplorable insult. Take her back, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10057	And if the Austrian People's Party - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10073	Please take back the accusation “Demenzpatient”!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10088	No, I'm not taking it back. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, typical! Typical! That's the FPÖ!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you one thing -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10124	It is not appropriate for the dignity of this House to call a political competitor that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10153	I remember the 86 memory gaps of the Minister of Finance within a very short time. This has not been the case for anyone, and I think there will not be a second that will be similar to him. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If your party already has a marked joy in shredding, then shredding It would be appropriate for you to do this numbering! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is absurd that we need to discuss a budget here – that is almost a sign-bourgeois – of which we know exactly that it will not last. [[Call to the ÖVP: This speech is absurd!]] However, it fits this absurdity and this thyroid access to the entire Covid policy that you pursue in that country. Following Which Strategy Are you? What's your goal? – Actually, it should be so that you try to achieve the greatest possible benefit and keep the damage as low as possible. They do it exactly the other way round: They produce the greatest possible damage and keep the benefits as low as possible. Don't you notice that you act as Tombs of this Second Republic, on all levels? You'd have to think about it! They're ruining the Austrian, the local businesses, not Amazon and the international players you're supposed to want to announce the fight. They rub their hands in the face of your lockdown, because these are the big profiters. They destroy domestic jobs, they produce a lost generation of education, they produce huge and sage collated damage in the health field, and in all cases you also block their own free citizens and allow them to be persecuted by the police, while the Islamist terrorists in Austria are free to walk around, are housed in the social housing, and in the face of constitutional protection, in contrast to their own population, they are not subject to any contact barriers, but they are agreed with other Islamists to prepare for any terrorist attacks. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the best from the turquoise and the green world in Austria in 2020. You can only congratulate yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Mr Minister, you know that we also propose a strategy different from yours in terms of Covid. This is just about not going from a lockdown to the next lockdown and into the next lockdown and into the next lockdown, at the end of which a large-scale human experiment with an unbridled mass vaccination should stand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] I take note that you are not willing and unable to change this strategy, but ask one: Yes, please, why aren't you at least consistent within your strategy? Why do you happen to the implementation of your own plan, so many mistakes? Instead of putting on panic and anxiety in great style, you should have taken the time to place the health system in this country – time was enough – on solid legs and to prepare for what you have always known. I don't understand why you didn't do that. I do not understand why we do not have a uniform numbering to date as far as the infected are concerned. I don't understand why we still have no plan to protect the vulnerable groups. I do not understand why we still do not have sufficient intensive beds and the corresponding staff. In the past, their heads of state of the ÖVP have only noticed that they have knocked on their breasts that they have locked hospitals in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] There I am now in the sense of responsibility and in the self-reliance that you always invite from all others. I am also involved in the discipline you demand from the Austrians. Yes, where is the discipline on the part of the government? Where are the discipline and personal responsibility it takes to do these preparatory work? - Misachieved! And if it doesn't work, everyone else is to blame. If you were to protect the health of the people and guarantee the best possible treatment of the sick, you would now have to take more money into your hands for the health system. You do the opposite: minus 130 million euros in this budget for the health system! Don't you notice that the back and front don't fit together? You have no future-oriented financial, organisational or human planning for the health care sector, you don't have it for the established area of general medicine and you don't have it for the field of specialist doctors – I tend to abstract it from the care, because there is also a lack in the front and back. On the contrary, I have already said it: The less revenue from the tax area will be passed on to you. These you pass on in the financial compensation by shortening the grants to the countries for health care providers. In your view, that seems to be a responsible health policy in the biggest pandemic – or whatever you call this Corona crisis! You've got your green-turquoise spendier pants elsewhere: where it's about investing hundreds of millions of euros in the purchase of Covid-19 tests or spending about 200 million euros on an unboosted vaccine. One thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: Few will earn a golden nose at this crisis, but very, very many will pay the token for it, and very, very many will also have to bear the risk of your wrong investment. I have a tip to the Austrian People's Party: In the mass testing and forced vaccinations, let your jubilants step out of their own party! You can do this – your Federal Chancellor and party chairman has a general authority – but spare the Austrian people with their irresponsible experiments! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing: I don't know exactly who ordered the lockdown on the side of the People's Party at the moment – who's from the cable car area. Perhaps Members of Parliament can help us a little bit further. But what I know exactly is who will pay it. We know that very well, because the little ones will pay, the mass will pay, that is already fixed. The small income earners, the small pensioners – now I quote your ÖVP police from Tyrol – are putting one on. This is what you're putting on, and I'm saying, It is almost an act of cynicism that you have just the week in which we have the budget advice here, let those among the wheels who have worked hard for 45 years, who are the service providers of this society, and to whom you express your thanks and your recognition by forbid them to retire after 45 years. The ÖVP, the party of service providers – there you can only say: Good night, Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The luxury pensions and the peaks in the near-state area, where your privilege riders and the Bones are housed, however remain untouched; there is no cent saved! – [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So much for the Austrian People's Party and the Greens, in which I still have quite other representatives of a reasonable social policy in mind. If You really want to do something for women, as you have announced, go here and simply count more child training times into retirement periods! This would be fair, because it has made a reasonable and essential contribution for the coming generations and for the preservation of our society. Why do it? You don't? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Social reduction is in the air everywhere. I've already said: The end of the hacker scheme is a scandal. It is also a refusal to raise unemployment benefit. You feed people with a bet, you are not able to issue a pension guarantee. Yeah, why not? – Because Of course, you have long been preparing a corresponding pension reduction in your social and toxic kitchens! That means nothing else, ladies and gentlemen, than that not only the boys, that is, the coming generation, who will pay for your displeasure, but also the old ones who have built this land and led to the prosperity that you are now systematically ruining. In the pots of your sudel kitchens, it's just steaming; that's just how it's steaming! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Increased taxes, removal of the pendulum fee, reduction of child care allowance, increase of retirement age – all of this enthused in your sudel kitchens!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10272	For the “suddle kitchens” I give you the next call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10307	Another thing: If you are talking about saving in the system or, as you have called it, spending discipline, then you have to listen twice. The first step to make the Austrians dependent is on your alms policy, with which people who are entitled to compensation for damages are downgraded to bitters. For those you have not yet brought under control in step one, do it in step two. That's what it's called spending discipline, and it's going to delete those things that don't fit you into your political business anymore. – This is the Austrian People’s Party’s Power Capture Programme for 2021, ladies and gentlemen! One more word, because it's the perversion to the square: While the money in your own country is missing at all corners and ends, you will break your next promise and invest 400 million euros more in the European Union as of this year. They are making cross-financing for the net beneficiary countries, i.e. for those who sell us the companies and destroy jobs, and for years and decades they have not been thinking of holding to any debt ratios. These are those who are responsible for the fact that the euro is not even worth half as much as you promised at the beginning. These are cross-financed by you – you have promised the opposite. You know, Minister of Finance: Broken promises are spoken crimes! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll finish. The only lockdown that could help Austria would be the lockdown for this federal government. [[Mr Haubner and Mr Hörl.]] I'm telling you quite honestly: The sooner, the better! Don't weigh yourself in false security! You will not dispel your just fate, even if you think you are all inviolable and inviolable at the moment. Mr. Finance Minister, you're a friend of Ovid's. You know where Ovid landed: In exile he landed, and from there he no longer returned, your very valued Ovid. [[Interlocutory calls from Melchior and Pfurtscheller.]] It will be the duty of the Freedom Party,You for what you now show with the Austrian population to send one day to political exile and to ensure that you stay there as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10367	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10389	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! [[Abg. Hörl: (in the direction of FPÖ) There needs...! That's unheard of!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Worm.]] I have to say honestly, my speech in this plenary room after Mr Kickl is a bit difficult every time. [[Abg. Kickl: You could switch internally!]] I just want to say this: It is embarrassing to me how, in what diction, you speak here, and it is embarrassing for me to have to explain regularly outside, why this Parliament operates so much that one has to yell at the speaker's desk permanently that constantly defamatory remarks fall. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Worm]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Listen: Don't rain on...!]] [[Abg. Worm: The truth hurts, Mrs Maurer! The truth hurts!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] The thing you're doing is you're double insulting. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] If you call the government bank a refugee camp, you insult, on the one hand, as they intend, the members of the government bank, but of course you also insult those people – and that is your intention – who actually have to live in refugee camps because they had to flee. The same applies to people suffering from dementia. It is extremely despective of people with this disease, how you act here and how you use these terms. [[Call at the FPÖ:... but don't show the Stinkefinger...!]] [[Prolonged condolences with Greens and ÖVP as well as with Members of the NEOS.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] We are actually in a budget debate here and, of course, as always, this is a general debate, but the level you are showing here, Mr Kickl, is underground compared to the other groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Abg. Amesbauer:... a moral...!]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Of course, content criticism is Your job, that's opposition work, but the way you're doing this here is below any level limit that can somehow exist in this house. [[Abg. Kickl: I understand you don't like this!]] [[Abg. Worm:... Truth...!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer:... Your moral sermons!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I really want to talk about the budget now, and I would like to do so in a normal volume, perhaps the FPÖ Group will not be able to bubble all the time so that I do not have to scream at the speaker's desk here. [[Abg. Deimek:... proper debate...!]] I do not want to scream, but to give a normal speech. [[Abg. Kassinger: We are here in Parliament...! Did you forget that? ...that's incredible!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last weeks and months, yes, the whole of the previous year 2020 is an extremely challenging one. The pandemic is calling for us to be enormously demanded by the people of our country, and we have had to spend a great deal of our energy and our time in dealing with the crisis, for the measures to curb the pandemic, for economic aid and, last but not least, for a terrorist attack in the heart of Vienna. As politicians, we have the responsibility to manage current crises as best as possible and to eliminate acute problems. But, of course, as politicians, we also have the responsibility to plan for the future, for the further development of our country, for the next generations. In the next three days, we are debating the budget for the next year, the year 2021 – a year that is expected to bring a vaccination against the corona virus; a year that is to rise after this crisis year; a year – I am confident – that will show a more friendly face than the year 2020; a year in which families can recover from the stratagems in which we may be able to travel on vacation again; a year in which we must do everything we can to ensure that the economy recovers as quickly as possible. We are also debating today a budget that provides answers to the multiple crises: the acute crisis in the labour market – it has already been addressed – by setting up a work foundation of 700 million euros; we will also decide this week on the second flat-rate increase in unemployment benefit – another 150 euros per month for people who have lost their job in the pandemic and who have particularly affected it. In this budget, however, there is also the response to the great crisis, which will last much longer than the pandemic, namely the climate crisis. At the same time, this crisis, the climate crisis, the chance of an ultimate trend change in the labour market as well as in the economy, offers the opportunity to set the right impulses and start a real turn. This budget is a green budget, it's a climate budget. For the ecological turnaround, as much money as never before is available, for the expansion of transport, for thermal renovation, for the energy transition, because we all share the responsibility of this planet – we only have one! – is also habitable for next generations. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: That was a laugh from your sector!]] We must ensure that we stop heating up so that next generations have sufficient resources for a good life in an intact environment. The pandemic has triggered a severe global economic crisis, which we must resist with all our strength. We must invest out of this crisis, and this is precisely what this budget provides for: for the future issue, for climate protection. The expansion of public transport, the conversion of our energy systems – all this creates employment. We will organise re-trainings in these areas, in green jobs, so that many, many people can have a new start, and for that there is also an educational bonus – 120 euros per month – that will help people who make longer training to change the industry to go to another industry potentially to a green sector. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Currently, the caregivers are enormously required, we hear every day the reports of intensive care stations. The caregivers in the old homes also face extreme challenges, and we know we have too few of them. We need more and in this area we need young people, we need a training offensive, and we also need it in this budget. Of course, this budget also provides the necessary health funds to address the challenges ahead. [[Abg. Belakovich: They're here?]] We have the situation today that schools are changing to Distancelearning, and already in spring it has become clear that digitisation in Austria is not the way it should go. There's been a lot of retrofitting, but we're still not where we could be. Therefore, in this budget, there is a focus on digitization at schools, so that we can also be there in 21. ==References== [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In our education system, there are many injustices, and the role of the school – equalizing inequality – is currently only very inadequate in our education system. Therefore, in this budget, 100 schools are available for the project, with which we are able to provide the best possible support to those students who are particularly difficult to deal with in their homework, so that they too can obtain adequate education and balance their uneven starting conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Science is also provided. We have planned 1.2 billion euros for research and a good study so that our students can be trained high-quality and can work in an innovative way. In this budget there are many other areas that are very important to us, for example the budget for women and for violence. This is substantially increased. We have money for the time-use study, which is urgently needed, as we regularly see that the distribution of work, in particular the unpaid work between men and women, is absolutely uneven. We have a budget that has been increased by almost 50 percent. At this point, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, I would like to talk about what you said in your statement of entry, namely concerning pensions: As government groups, we have set ourselves the goal of combating poverty and the poverty of women, and we are doing so consistently: increasing the compensation allowance and, of course, also the early starter bonus that we are planning to combat old age poverty. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] From what you have decided, Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, 7 200 men and a single woman have benefited so far. You can't tell me that this is a program that serves to support women. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Who of you is coming to 45 years? Who?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Matznetter towards Greens.]] In this budget, we have enough money for justice, where at the beginning of the year the former Justice Minister Clemens Jabloner warned that she will die in silence. We have the largest art and culture budget that ever existed. These are all very important points to lead this country into a positive future. We must not only have in mind the crisis management, but also have in mind the future, a life-worthy future, a solidary future with an intact environment, and we must set the right priorities for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10753	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10803	Mr President. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear spectators! Mrs Maurer, I would like to join with what you have said in conclusion: that we must not only stop the crisis, but look into the future. But exactly of that, of the future, I see nothing in this budget, nothing at all! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Since you presented your budget, just a month has passed. ==References== You stood here on October and, as this Federal Government is not entirely foreign, you have praised your own actions and thus your own budget in the highest tones. Since then, however, a lot has been done: In the meantime, the second wave has caught us fully, and the government's inactivity is due to the entry into force of the second, very hard, lockdown today. This is clear, and that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers: We are in a similar situation to in spring, namely that the 2021 budget we are discussing here is naturally built on sand with its figures and forecasts underlying them. In fact, we are also on the way – and not only to the questions of the corona – in an absolute blind flight. The second hard lockdown hits the people in Austria with full force. He now meets the nursing staff as well as the doctors in the hospitals with full weight, because they get to feel the shortcomings of the past now, because unfortunately, the numbers will not change at intensive care stations, but also at normal stations. The workers, entrepreneurs, teachers, parents and children pay the price for their failure, the token for the mistakes of the past months, as you have not done everything you can to prevent this second hard lockdown. Once again, people lose their job or they are sent into short work, and many entrepreneurs are afraid of the continuation of their business and know that they may be transferred over the year, but 2021 then threatens the pleite. I think we all get a lot of letters, which means for people. Especially impressive was a letter from a mother of three children who wrote to me that she and her husband had already lost their job in spring, at the first lockdown. They've been on their feet, they've been looking for, they've both found a job again, and now they're standing in front of nothing again – twice a year, a family with three children! – This is the result of your policy. How's a hairdresser who has to lock up now who doesn't know how to make the financial statements? [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: They deserve more than last year!]] It is therefore a dramatic situation, and it is not the favor and virtue of the government that leads to it now pouring out the filler horn over the people, but it is ultimately the taxpayers, the people in Austria who will have to do this with their tax money. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] Not for everything, you can now bring an approach. - I don't know why there's such an aggressive scream. [[Abg. Steinacker: Because it's wrong what you say!]] This may also be related to the now very successful government constellation in Vienna, which really represents a counter-model, a future model, to your federal model. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I notice that the sound has become a little rough in the last few hours. What do you need to do, Minister of Finance? – They must give the entrepreneurs a perspective. At least you have to give the impression that you have a plan to help you quickly, easily and sustainably. It's very interesting to see how you've done this in the past few months. At the beginning of the pandemic, in March, where it was really necessary to help quickly and unbureaucratically, you have built up huge bureaucratic obstacles, you have actually given the impression that you would in principle distrust every entrepreneur in Austria: He is a potential tax evasioner and one who potentially abuses these aid! Now that we have to ask ourselves slowly the question of how we can get back out of it, how we can create new jobs instead of just preserving the old structures, now you show a generosity, which will still not deceive that many businesses will not succeed. In fact, businesses need money, not only through new debts, but above all through an equity strategy. You hear the calls, but you're not doing anything. My colleague Sepp Schellhorn will present an overall package on Wednesday, as we believe these economic aid can be put on solid, but above all sustainable, legs. This must also not fail in personal vanity and show battles with the EU Commission, Minister of Finance, which is not the right time. We are in crisis mode in 2020. However, as Mrs Maurer himself has correctly recognized – only in fact does not end properly – in 2021 the step towards the future would have to be taken, the engine for the future and the economic engine would have to be re-applyed. We need to get away from this absolute crisis mode. Against this background it is simply wrong to want to get a status quo. As an Austrian People's Party, you have been very, very long in the government – I don't want to make myself younger than I am, but it's almost my whole life – and you've turned on small screws over and over again. However, the major reforms that would be urgently needed to make our country future-oriented – to create new jobs, to allow innovations, perhaps even to eliminate the beatings of entrepreneurs, which you are putting before them, for example, with the trade order and all the bureaucracy – have not made these reforms. You have staged yourself – you can do very well. That may have been enough so far, but that is not enough for the future! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Because I'm looking at you right now, Minister of Education: I would like to thank you for your fight for open schools. But going into the future, even with digitization, does not mean in such a situation that once the lockdown comes, chaos will break out again, and both teachers and parents and children do not know what to do now: Should they stay at home because they may get the better lessons about zoom, or should they go to school because the better lessons take place there? – Insurance and chaos instead of solid preparation is the result of your policy, and I don't understand because you could have used the months! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I don't understand that it doesn't drive the shame in your face if you say in such a situation: Yes, we do digitization in schools, until 2022 there will be Wi-Fi and laptops! – This reminds me a little of the home office strategy, which may finally be on the table in March 2021 when it is too late. Why is it so important to address this topic of the future and to risk real reforms? – The budget service of this House is also very clear: In the measures you have set up so far, which are also very economic-stimulating, demand-stimulating. You do not go to which groups of people are really hit by the crisis and which are not. I would like to take this to your attention once again. It is not a situation in which the whole population is equally affected by the crisis. We know – and as politicians, by the way, we are among those who have no income loss – that there are those who hit it with full weight, namely, those who need the country: Entrepreneurship entrepreneurs who are willing to take a risk. And especially the boys: These are and will be the losers of crisis. The boys are double, because they don't find a place to teach, they don't find a job or they lose it. For months they are captivated in education, not only at school, but also at university, and at the same time, in the public – forgive yourself – there is also a picture that they are actually at risk, which only run around and, so to speak, endanger everyone. I am sorry for these young people, and in order to give these young people a perspective, you would have to go much more bravely into the future and also dare real innovations. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think a government has never been so required to think about the day after tomorrow. Never before has a government been so demanded to think out even once over the time until the next election. And I have never seen a government so much in the here and now and especially in the period between the press conference and the press conference. As ministers, you will not be in office for a long time, and as a Member of Parliament we will probably not be there, people, entrepreneurs, children, workers will still have to suffer the consequences of your policy. That is why we now have to take a step towards the future. That is not what you are doing, and that is why, unfortunately, this is not enough for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10917	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e10938	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the TV screens! A sentence on the previous speeches of the oppositionists' club members: I do not think you are yet aware of what a serious situation we are in Austria, all over Europe and all over the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I don't think you're aware of it!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Which you brought us to!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] We already learned something at home in the children's room, but apparently you forgot: When the family encounters a problem, you can only get out of it if you help together; and the wheel is the same everywhere. What you're doing here with your rhetorical political players I don't want to address individually is not responsible. You can do that again when this whole crisis is over! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as by Mr Rössler and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] The 2021 budget, which you, Minister of Finance, have presented, stabilises this crisis, and it is also envisaged in the future. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No one wants to stabilize a crisis!]] Some 50 billion euros will be spent in order to stabilise the crisis and lead this country, the economy and the labour market back into the future. That is almost 13 percent of GDP! When you look at what's being made internationally, you notice: Austria is really a top rider. They say they're all being abandoned. – I say it again here: ==References== It is still today that this year, when the crisis began, was eligible for payment. The number of insolvencys has even decreased, although at the end of the day there will be a reorganisation. As has been said, money will also be invested in the future: It is invested in education, research, safety, it is invested in the environment, it has been tied up with an investment package with the investment premium. One has believed that it is not so much invested, so one has first decided 1 billion euros; we will now decide on the third billion. In other words, there are 3 billion euros of investments in the loop, which will also benefit the labour market. This is not a matter of course and there is no such thing in other countries. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Tourism, which is certainly the industry that has hit it most, has on average a minus of about 30 percent, the city hotels much more. The holiday hotel has gone a little better. There are the investment premium and applications for the ÖHT – according to the ÖHT, there are as many applications there as it has never been. Today, liability commissions will also be increased to EUR 675 million by a decision of EUR 375 million. I mean, these are facts that cannot be denied, and this government is doing everything it can to get through this crisis half-way. Look over the borders and see what's going on! When I hear from the previous speaker that the government has done so little to turn off this lockdown, which is now back there – please, look at your press releases, look at your press conferences! All calls for self-reliance and all the conditions that came from the government to prevent the second lockdown, that was all a fool for you. It was the mask a fool, it was this a fool and that, it's all a fool! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now, where things are so serious again, I say: It is irresponsible that SPÖ and NEOS – I do not want to talk about the liberals at all – did not go along with the decision of this lockdown. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] We know that there is a certain class of society: the corona rejecters. You know what's going on there. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kollross.]] This failure of SPÖ and NEOS also stimulates these to say: We're on a right path! Putting them into the fire of this coronary oil will probably cost the state billions that our children and children will have to pay. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Brückl and Mr Rauch.]] Are you aware of this responsibility? I'd think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11080	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11101	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer, we Social Democrats have contributed almost every measure – we have decided quite a lot of measures here unanimously. We have just said that we are opposed to the closure of schools and kindergartens, as are all experts! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Several parties have said here: If you do what all the experts say, leaving the schools open, then we agree. That was your decision! You don't need our voices, you didn't want our voices. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] To make ourselves and say that we are to blame for Corona and billions of damage – please, that's really ridiculous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We now have a problem similar to that we had a few months ago, namely that the budget is not worth the paper on which it is written – that is our problem. That's a perfect make-up. We know that it is billions, because of the lockdown, and the last time we have mentioned this as opposition parties: The House may not, of course, decide false figures! In one night's action, the Minister of Finance then realized that this was not going to happen and presented an amendment, which included many mistakes, including the six missing zeros, so that we would have decided almost EUR 102 000 instead of EUR 102 billion. We say we are facing the same problem this time. What we don't want is another night action like that. We have therefore put forward the proposal to postpone the decision of the budget here in the House by two, three, four weeks – as long as the Minister of Finance needs – in order to simply present a solid numbering – not overnight, but at rest – so that we can decide on it this year; so that we can decide on a realistic preview and not figures of which we all know here that they can never keep because this budget through the lockdown one and the lockdown two is completely obsolete. We therefore propose – and we all invite you to support the proposal – that the Minister of Finance should be given the time to use the right figures together with the experts. The second problem is that the budget does not give the right answers. It's not all wrong and it's all bad, there's also a lot of good things in there, that we've been discussing in the Budget Committee for a week. However, I can give you a few examples of what the budget gives the wrong answers. Firstly, on the issue of combating unemployment: We know that we have the highest unemployment rate in the Second Republic – but there is less money to get these unemployed back into employment than there were, for example, 2017. That is, in the high economy there was more money to train and teach unemployed people than in the most severe crisis. It must be clear to you that this can only be too little money! A second example is the communities. The communities are the largest investor, and we know how important investments are. [[Call at the ÖVP: Asfinag is bigger!]] According to figures from the budget service, they lose 2.5 billion euros in revenue – that is 2.5 billion euros less money. They boast of this package, and we also supported it, but we said: It is too little that there is 1 billion euros more. Now everyone can expect: 2.5 billion euros less revenue for the municipalities, 1 billion euros will be replaced. So there is still a lack of EUR 1.5 billion. Will the communities invest less, will they be equally much, or will they invest more? – We all know the answer: They will be much less investment. This is a mistake – and we also draw attention to it – that is missing in this budget! Third example are the hospitals: We've been in the biggest pandemic for over 100 years. The Minister for Finance submits a budget, we expect: It says that the hospitals get 200 million euros less money, I think. – We thought: It can't be serious that during the biggest pandemic, the hospitals have been getting 200 million euros less money! He said he would negotiate with the countries to improve this. To this day, we have no answer. Until last Friday he said he was still negotiating, but we have no answer. They want to decide a budget in which during the largest pandemic the hospitals get 200 million euros less. You can't be serious! Next example: We have said that we need an instrument to save businesses. Let's see how this happened at the AUA: Jobs are no matter where they may cancel as many people as they want. Business location, location guarantee: no matter, there is no one. But what the Minister of Finance has especially valued is that the management bonuses are paid out and the dividends are secured for the owners. [[Abg. Deimek: These are your own comrades!]] You can't be serious! That's not how you can organize help. Aid with tax money must also mean that there is a job guarantee and a location guarantee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Farms also have to pay their taxes properly. There are many more examples. We have drawn up a motion for a resolution to prevent these mistakes from being made. I can read these briefly here: [[Quoted print version removed]] That brings me to the last point: At the end of the day, the question will also be asked who pays these billions. Who is paying the cost of this crisis? – I can say one thing: The Court of Auditors – we are currently debating the accounts – has presented the following: at Faymann 2015, 2016: Tax reduced; at Core 2016, 2017: Tax reduced; for short 2018: Tax increases; for short 2019: [[Call the ÖVP: Which one?]] Tax increases! – The tax and tax rate, read it in the Court’s report! [[Federal Minister Köstinger: Which one?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Court of Auditors does not lie whose figures you can believe. He put this here. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And: Who pays these higher taxes? [[Abg. Gödl: What tax?]] – I can tell you: Not the corporations, not the billionaires – who pay less – but the broad bulk pays that, the pensioners, the employees, the self-employed, the small ones, the EPCs – you want them to pay the bill. – Not with us, I tell you! We will support the fact that for the payment of the crisis, not the masses will rise, but those who have also been saved: The corporations and the billionaires are supposed to pay this! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11370	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11394	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! I would like to focus on the three main priorities of the budget. However, allow me briefly to repeat the comments made by Mr Krainer. Yes, this 2021 budget is under extremely difficult conditions, and – not a question – the lockdown will have a massive impact on the budget, but on this. Now we are discussing the 2021 budget, and it is important that we create it on the basis of the best level of knowledge at this time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The Wifo forecast is the best knowledge available to us. That was also updated – not in a night and fog action, but already last week. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A short while ago to vote on the Lockdown Regulation: You know that the question of school closures was not covered by this regulation, that is, you did not vote against it because of school closures, but for any other, inexplicable reason. You may then be able to explain that in detail. More than 40 million people worldwide have already been infected with Corona and more than a million people have died. Although some of you, particularly your group, still do not want to see: [[towards FPÖ]] At this stage, as in any other, the protection of human life and health is the top priority, and the Federal Government is responsible and also provides the budget resources to effectively combat this epidemic. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Call at the SPÖ:... could call the hospitals!]] In the health sector, 50 percent more funds are made available, instead of EUR 1.2 billion, EUR 1.8 billion. With this, corona tests, flu vaccination, screening programs, protective equipment and a hopefully soon enough corona vaccine can be financed so that this epidemic can be handled. The second priority in the budget, in addition to the health sector, is the area of the economic crisis caused by the Corona crisis, which has severely affected both private and companies. Samt guarantees and fiscal measures are available in a package of up to 10 billion euros, which concerns the fixed cost grant, the loss return and other measures to bring companies, associations, the non-profit sector, self-employed and so on through this crisis. 1 billion euros are available for investment through the Investment Premium, the Community Investment Act alone in 2021. At the same time, there are 2 billion euros for the labour market on short-time work, the job foundation, the educational bonus and subsidies to the compensation tax fund, so that businesses can get through the crisis so that people can keep their jobs and that families do not slip into poverty. According to Wifo, this has been well done. There has even been a slight increase in available incomes since the crisis, especially in the case of lower incomes. All these health and economic measures are important, but they are not everything. I've been a father for the first time last week. Now I am confronted at home daily with someone who doesn't care about this corona crisis. [[General condolences.]] Thank you. In general, my son's political interests are quite limited, except in the field of nutrition, where there are hot conflicts over and over again. That will be different in 20 or 30 years. My son will look back critically at this time and ask himself: Did we set the course right in 2021? For us too, I believe, this perspective is important, even for you. There is enough unforeseen things in the future, but one thing is certain – because the rules, the laws of atmospheric physics are easy to resist –: The challenges related to climate change will concern us. We know what it costs if we do not act, and we know what opportunities arise when we act and when we manage to push the emissions in the next 20 years towards zero. That is why this climate budget, the climate billions we have promised – and with this we have fulfilled this promise – is a real milestone. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, EUR 100 million for climate-friendly innovations and technologies, more than EUR 450 million in public transport and rail, EUR 220 million more for environmental protection and renewable energy, and there are still twenty other measures, but they are the most essential ones. I think this is a sign of the work of this Federal Government and also of this budget – thank you very much, Minister of Finance! – from: in spite of the immense challenges posed by the health crisis, this long-term perspective cannot be overlooked, and at the same time the acute crisis and the long-term climate crisis are being fought. I shall then table an amendment to the budget accompanying law of Mr Obernosterer, Mr Jakob Schwarz, ladies and gentlemen, which amends Article 34 to amend the Health and Food Safety Act in order to establish a Federal Office for Consumer Health and to create the Tabulation Office. I'm asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11461	The request is not available to the Bureau and cannot therefore be considered to have been filed. I would ask you to give us the request to the Bureau and do so next time. Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11485	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Estimated Austrians! I would like to quote a saying by Benjamin Franklin: “Whoever fails to prepare himself is preparing his failure.” – This describes the current situation of the Federal Government quite well. The Federal Government would have had more than half a year to prepare for a Corona-Worst-Case scenario. Instead of making sense of this time and doing their homework, the Federal Government has continued its series of empty and merely chaos-stricken press conferences. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner.]] I can only recall how often we have heard an announcement of the announcement. The result is a maximum damage to the economy, labour market and health. This lockdown could and should have been prevented. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] The budget week began on 6 June. November 2020 with the budget hearing. ==References== In November the population assumed that the so-called Lockdown light, that is, the second lockdown, was expected to be up to 30. It will take November. In the budget hearing, however, the government expert, Prof. Badelt, has already stopped, for he is already at the time, on 6. November, assumed that this lockdown will last until a week before Christmas. Now I'm wondering, How does the government expert Prof. Badelt know? November? – The answer is obvious. At the same time, several ski resorts already have the ski opening on the 17th. December, i.e. a week before Christmas, and I wonder where certain entrepreneurs know more and more than the population or our parliamentarians do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In Vienna, too, we had a prominent case that an entrepreneur who is friends with the Federal Chancellor had already announced the closure of his place at a time when the population had no knowledge of the details of the upcoming second lockdown. This one-sided information transfer by the Federal Government must have an end. Last Friday we had the final deliberations in the Budget Committee, and on Friday the “Kurier” was already entitled: ‘In default risk’ means: This is how the new hard lockdown is to look.” – And what, do you think, did Mr Blümel answer me on Friday when I asked him about the budgetary impact of the hard lockdown? – Well, Finance Minister Blümel told me he can’t say it. But what was his reasoning? – Because he does not know what this regulation on the hard lockdown will contain, which he announced together with other members of the Federal Government the next day. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] That is, the “curer” and other media knew what this regulation says, the Minister of Finance did not know, and the consequences of the second lockdown, the hard lockdown, are not included in this budget either. [[Abg. Loacker: The “Kurier” is a department of the ÖVP!]] Therefore, this budget is already before the Makulatur decision-making process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another statement by the Minister of Finance also made in the Budget Committee for Headshakes. According to the Minister of Finance, the tax reform, as provided for in the Black-Green Government Programme or in the Council of Ministers' presentation of 30.1.2020, will also be implemented during this legislative period. However, the Minister of Finance did not hide that this tax reform was not taken into account in the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2021. Now you can draw two possible conclusions: Either there will be no tax reform or the budget is incomplete once again. The Lockdown light was taken into account in the 2021 budget with approximately 1.6 billion euros. The hard lockdown is – as mentioned above – not shown in the 2021 budget and will not be shown, even though the Minister of Finance would have some days left. There is indeed a request from SPÖ to postpone the adoption of this budget until the Minister for Finance submits a proper budget. However, the Minister of Finance does not find it worth the effort to present a budget taking into account current developments – we are already used to it from the 2020 budget. Finally, let me address the lockdown turnover: In principle, this aid measure is to be welcomed because it can be requested relatively unbureaucratically for the first time via the financial online platform. In principle, sales revenue is a certain percentage of sales during the comparison period November 2019, and now I ask you: Who best knows about the sales of the entrepreneurs? – Of course, the financial offices, because the entrepreneurs usually have to report their sales to the financial offices monthly. Why is this request then handled by the Cofag, which the data must only be transmitted by the financial offices? – That is completely incomprehensible. Rightly, the financial offices would have to be responsible for the lockdown turnover, and then the lockdown turnover would also be able to design the lockdown revenue without request – as in the case of family aid. But that would probably be too unbureaucratic and too transparent for the Minister of Finance, and transparency frightens the Federal Government like the devil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11577	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11598	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Actually, at this point I wanted to talk about the high amounts that this budget includes, which are invested in the infrastructure, which we will also decide on the framework plan – my colleague Singer will do this even more. But I have to take the time to clarify a few things that have been spread here and also in the last few days. Of red and blue I am actually not used to anything else, but at NEOS I still had the hope that we could work together on constructive solutions. When I take off a Sunday broadcast, “operators at last need reliability and quick help”, then we are of an opinion, but if it is interesting, “the wrong instrument is the turnover replacement”, where a colleague I appreciated last week very much welcomed and wrote: In 5 minutes of ratzfatz done; thank you, Gernot Blümel!, and now that is exactly what is being criticized, then I don't understand the world anymore, ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Maurer and Mr Rössler on his work.]] You, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, have here brought the example of the hairdresser: Exactly these companies, exactly the hairdresser, the hairdresser gets unbureaucratic and quickly this 80 percent revenue replacement. So shove. They are not insecure to entrepreneurs, they have not deserved it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then the talk is that there is an overcompensation. Mrs. Doppelbauer – she will speak in my opinion – is criticised for the fact that short-time work is counter-receipt on revenue. Talk to the entrepreneurs, ask what's really going on now! You need this revenue replacement so that they can pay the wages and salaries accordingly in December too! This is not an overcompensation, it is a good way to ensure liquidity in businesses quickly and unbureaucratically, and therefore I do not understand this criticism at all. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about legal certainty and, at the same time, the 20 percent and 40 percent and 60 percent sales in trade are criticized. It is therefore necessary to make a differentiation because not every operation works the same way – you should know that. For example, there are different raw incomes on the goods; there are goods that are perishable, and which are not so perishable, and in order to create the appropriate legal certainty and create a fair model, we also need to make distinctions there. This creates legal certainty and this creates quick and rapid help for our businesses that are urgently needed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Maurer and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] I'm really very, very curious: I started to study the red-pink – it is actually a red government program from Vienna. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] I have to say quite honestly that I am very curious where we can see an economic-liberal approach. I haven't found him yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11657	The next item is the report by Mrs Doublebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e11678	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Let me turn to my previous speaker and comment on this very briefly. Just because you do not manage to implement the means and instruments that the European Commission is so sure to provide – from our point of view – and here you do not want to jump from a chaos to the next chao party without strategy, you do not need to believe that we have not been busy with it. We want to help entrepreneurs, but we want that to be based on legal certainty, and we want it to be efficient for taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Finanzminister, you presented us with the draft budget for 2021 about a month ago – that was before the light lockdown, but it was mainly before the hard lockdown, which entered into force today at 0 o'clock. You did that despite all the appropriate warnings, and you were not prepared. In this regard, we are not the only ones who say that it has already been confirmed by many sides that much has been slept in the summer – in any case, it has been slept to present a corresponding picture of this lockdown in the budget. With this, you will present us with a budget for a second consecutive time, in which, in the week of the decision, it is quite clear that it will not last. What do we make sure of that? – This is actually quite simple: The revenue will not be kept, it will be lower and expenditure will be higher. We expect government debt – and not only us, but also many experts and economic researchers – that will be well over 90 percent, not the 85 percent you are currently co-porting. In addition, I would also like to say quite clearly: If it comes to a third lockdown in winter, you can also get this budget back into the paper cube. What do I notice? – It is now the second budget that comes from your spring, and then you recognize the first patterns. The first pattern, which is clear, is that this budget has also been written with a very, very shaky hand. It's a little bit like a rabbit's sitting in front of the famous snake and then thinking: Am I doing something? Am I not doing anything? Am I doing something? Am I not doing anything? – In your design, the strategy seems to look like this: I'd rather not do anything before I do anything wrong. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In any case, we do not find a courageous and far-reaching budgetary policy here. The second – and this is actually more difficult from my point of view – is simply that you obviously deceive your voters once again. They have always said in the election campaign that the budget visions for Austria's future would include, it would relieve people, it would relieve companies. But what's missing and what's not inside here is something of what you said. There is a lack of future-oriented investment in education, in digitalisation and, above all, the whole, very important reforms are missing. Or where does the environmental tax reform - which has already been mentioned - find itself in this context? Where has the relief of the factor work remained? It seems that the cold progression will not be abolished again, we are dreaming of a pension reform; and with regard to the financial compensation: Yes, you did that – you moved it to 2024! [[Abg. Zarits:... City of Vienna!]] Of course, the story now comes from the Federal Government: It's all so difficult because we're in the middle of the crisis right now, you can't do everything at the same time. – I disagree with the sharpest! When, if not now, do these reforms have to be addressed? Now it is necessary to set the course in order to be able to go into the future! In any case, it is a no-future budget; it is, above all, really a budget that young people play against old, and it is a budget that is being carried out on the back of the young people in our country. Let me say what I mean by that, if I say so, and what we NEOS there, what we would do better above all! First – that would somehow be part of your job description – of course it would be nice if you were to create a federal budget that has the chance to hold it. This won't happen: The revenue will fall by around 3 billion euros, according to the estimates of economic experts, and expenditure will definitely be higher. I'm just giving you one example: In 2021, you included in the budget that, unfortunately, there will be about 400 000 unemployed. It's budgeted like that. Now we have the hard lockdown – there are careful calculations and estimates that say there will probably be more than 450 000 unemployed. Summa summarum costs 30 000 euros per unemployed person, which is what we know from calculations, i.e. 1.5 billion euros that are not shown – and I am not going as far as I am now, as many interest groups have already done, which assume that this number of 450 000 unemployed people will not be kept. – In any case, expenditure will be much higher. In addition, investment in education, infrastructure and digitalisation is lacking. I know, they always say they took more money into their hands. – Yes, but that is not enough! We are still lagging behind the best in the world and we are still following the EU average. I could now say a lot about the development-neutral ecologisation of the tax system, which is particularly important to us, and especially important is the simultaneous relief of the labour factor. After all, what is it about? – It is about making the site fit for the future again. We all know here that an employee in Austria costs 8 percent more than in Germany, so you simply have to say: That takes decisive steps by the Federal Government. That would also be a turbo out of the crisis. I know, of course, economic researchers and experts say – not publicly, but quite behind the scenes, and I want to get it to the point here –: This draft budget is lustless, budgeted diletantism. In no serious company would you get through with it, but you know that, I think, yourself. These are chaotic economic aid, which is missing planning for entrepreneurs. There are far too few impulses for economic recovery, especially the important reforms are missing. This federal government simply does not bring it to the ground. Who pays the bill? – The bill pays the next generation, it has already been addressed. There will be dramatic cuts. This hard lockdown will cost us about five years, the economic researchers say. This is, of course, dramatic, especially dramatic for the personal impact on those in this country. That is why we are today introducing an amendment tabled by Mr Karin Doppelbauer and Mr Gerald Loacker to the budget accompanying law. This one was distributed in the hall, as I know. I would like to justify him as follows: In all that there is about the unemployed and the students, it is really the wrong time for pension gifts with the casting can. No employee will receive 3.5 percent increase in salary, so pensioners who are neither affected by short-term work nor unemployment should also receive exactly the increase provided by the law, namely the rate of inflation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Everything else is socio-political ignition. In your political action, let yourself be guided not only by your polls! Listen, above all, to people who are concerned about their future in the crisis, because they are not financially secured! Listen to people doing something, to people whose educational opportunities and their careers are at stake! And above all listen to people who slowly but surely lose any faith in the future! If the budget is put into figures, I really wonder: Where are you leading this country? – It’s not always about winning elections – this will be difficult to understand now – it’s mainly about showing citizens where the perspective for the future is how to get this country out of the crisis and build resistance for the future. It is ultimately about social peace. You create winners through your political action and you create losers. Please stop splitting this country! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[10:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12058	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Federal Minister Blümel has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12082	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This draft budget, which we are discussing today, has been presented to Parliament about a month ago. Since then, much has happened. At the beginning of these debates, I said that we are not at the end, but in the middle of a global economic and health crisis. This statement is of course still valid. This shows the dramatic number of infections, not only in Austria, but throughout Europe and in many parts of the world. From now on, Austria has a more intensive lockdown, which has a significant impact on social and economic life. These restrictions are laborious, but necessary for all. The top goal in the current situation is to prevent a collapse of the health system and to get the infection numbers down as quickly as possible. We can all make a contribution to this by limiting ourselves as much as possible in order to be able to open up more quickly afterwards. No matter when there is such a lockdown, for the economy there is no good time for such a measure, and just before the start of the Christmas business, of course, this step is particularly painful. That is why we will support all closed businesses at this difficult time, as well as being as unbureaucratic as possible. To this end, we have put in place the instrument of revenue replacement within a very short time. 30 000 applications with a total volume of over 900 million euros were submitted two weeks after the first announcement. The first 180 million euros are already paid. Here I can also venture a comparison with Germany: In Germany, the lockdown and associated economic aid have been announced a week earlier than in Austria; the economic aid is still not available and it is still not clear in what form exactly that will take place. Therefore, I should like to thank all employees who have been so intensively involved that it was as soon as possible to put up with this revenue. – Thank you for the excellent work! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Also for those companies that are newly affected by the tightening of the lockdown, of course, there will be rapid help. The close-to-body services, i.e. hairdressers, masseurs, cosmetics and cetera, are also compensated for 80 percent of sales for the period of closure, similar to the other services. For trade there will be a graded compensation due to the different conditions: 20, 40, or 60 percent, depending on how the various criteria, namely loss of value of the product, raw income and possible pick-up effects, can be assessed. It is quite clear that the flower dealer around the corner must of course be compensated differently than the jeweler in the city center. This is also the case with the Constitutional Service, which advises us to take a step-by-step approach. This, of course, costs a lot of money, but it is true that the budgetary impact has already been mentioned that the disbursement of this aid should be carried out this year. Therefore, this measure also concerns the 2020 budget and, in so far as not the present draft 2021 to be discussed. We can therefore finance these aid from the 2020 budget, because we have provided enough. This is also confirmed by IHS chief Martin Kocher in the daily newspaper “Die Presse” on 16.11., he says there to the lockdown: “The alternatives are worse than what is happening now.” But of course: The lockdown also has an impact on growth 2021 – that is absolutely right – and on the revenue of the state. That is why we prepared a new forecast with the Economic Research Institute in early November and adapted the figures for the 2021 budget accordingly based on this forecast. Growth in 2021 will be corrected, according to Wifo numbers from 4.4 to 2.8 percent. The Maastricht debt ratio will rise from 84.8 to 87.9 percent and revenue will fall by 1.5 billion euros. These figures are, of course, included in the budget by means of an amendment. This is the most recent draft budget that we can present. It remains crucial that we save as many lives as possible in this crisis, secure as many jobs as possible, and accompany as many companies as possible through this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12139	Weratschnig, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12161	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Today, in the Pre-load Act, we also decide on important railway billions under the ÖBB Framework Plan, dear public transport users, 17.5 billion euros – the sum planned between 2021 and 2026 for the ÖBB, for rail transport, for the Austrian railway country, for 78 million passengers a year. This is 3.6 billion euros more than in the framework before – over 25 percent. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Haubner.]] That's an amount that can be understood for all of us when we're on the road. When I look out of my constituency in the city of Schwaz, one-way in the district with which Railjet is on the road, in Vienna by S-Bahn, by metro, two-way in Austria in the future, with those regional railways that need to be branched, whether this is the Pyrnbahn, whether this is the Mattigtal railway that should be electrically run in the future, I can say that these are examples of success stories in public transport, which we create annually and which are also achieved with the help of 17.5 billion euros. All of us on the road know about what's going on well, what we all want, what we're still annoyed about, why it's not going to the extent that it's going on in the neighboring region. It'd be so easy. Why don't you do that? Why is it not implemented? Why is there not at all the ideal direct connection at the best time you're on the go? [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] These are the needs, in this field of tension, the rail transport is on the way. For all these questions there are answers, it needs an overall view, it needs resources that are best used as early as tomorrow. The Federal Minister has a very extensive wish list, the window beams definitely bend. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When I was on my way from Tyrol to Vienna yesterday, I thought about what has been going well so far and what we still need on the last route. What went well? – Many projects and many projects that started years ago, projects that also need years of lead. I am thinking of the park-and-ride project in Jenbach in my constituency. We know that in many regions of Austria it needs this mobility hub Park and Ride. It's about attracting railway stations. – The Schwaz station has been attracted, is just made accessible, modernized and rebuilt. This is a power act – in all regions – between the municipalities, the cities, the country and the ÖBB. At this point, I would like to say that my respect applies mainly to all railway staff who are in use at any time – whether that is the case with the ÖBB, whether this is the case with the Westbahn – to all the transport service providers, to all those who are active in the bus operation, which the railway company also needs in order to have this mobility hub – a warm thanks to all the employees. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What can this framework plan do? – The framework can do some things: He can modernise the regional railways, he manages to implement accessibility. Accessibility, ladies and gentlemen, is not a luxury, not a social project, but that everyone can be on the road equally and self-determined, must be self-evident in transport, in mobility. At this point I can say that I am pleased that the ÖBB Etrap Plan is also being worked on with high pressure and that it also goes a little further: intelligent mobility concepts, expansion of railway concepts in tourism – I think, very important –, electrification of 500 km of railways – combined – for favourable and better public access, for the expansion of infrastructure, for more freight transport on the rails and for more electrification on all rails. Ladies and gentlemen! From the crisis, investing – with the ÖBB Framework Plan – is our task. Let's go! If we reach the goal of climate neutrality, if we start to implement the best possible mobility, we will start to implement something of a kind with these 17.5 billion euros! In this sense, I invite all MEPs in all regions to bring public transport to the rails with the ÖBB. This is the future, and we need that for climate neutrality. – Thank you for your help in all regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12237	Next speaker: Mr Josef Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12261	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are now holding the general debate on the 2021 budget, and it is really a pity that the Federal Chancellor is not present when it comes to the future of Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amesbauer.]] I am very sorry, especially because I would like to comment on the subject of pension adjustment 2021. ==References====External links== In October, it agreed to make 2021 a pension adjustment which is not fair and fair in all. We as SPÖ welcome the fact that you have complied with our request to make a greater adjustment in small pensions and the compensation allowance at EUR 1 000 to increase – this is positive. What we do not understand, however, is that small and medium-sized pensions from EUR 2 333 do not even have an inflation rate of 1.5 percent. These are over 500 000 people who have worked for decades, these are nurses, these are employees, these are workers who have always paid their contributions on time, for whom you do not even provide the inflation tax, but simply pay you off grossly with 35 euros per month. However, it is even less understandable that the luxury pensions – 10,000 people in Austria who receive more than 10 000 euros per month of pension – provide a full rate of inflation and do not collect a lump sum. You have the opportunity today to agree to the amendment tabled by Members Muchich, comrades and comrades to the budget accompanying law, with which we in the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and also in the Farm Social Insurance Act require at least 1.5 percent for all these pensioners and whom I will now bring in. – Not a class struggle, but a fair pension adjustment 2021. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We ask that there be a flat rate of 54 euros per month for pensions over 3,600 euros up to the luxury pensions. No one in this country understands that people in small and medium-sized pensions are not even given an inflation tax in a crisis and are grossly fed at 35 euros a month and allow you with luxury pensions from 10 000 euros per month. 35 Euro – 150 Euro?- Oh, my God! Just as this pension adjustment is unfair, it is also unfair what you are planning, namely the abolition of the hacker scheme. These people who have worked and paid for up to 47 years now to cut the pensions again are simply unfair, and in the exchange for an early starter bonus is simply unfair. Nothing against an early starter bonus – but not to punish in return those people who have paid for decades! Where are your service providers? – These have been the service providers, these people you take away from! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Listen Please also ask to split society, to drive a rope between men and women, between young and old and between occupational groups at pensions! Women who are now 60 years old. If you have reached your age, you are entitled to a refund-free pension. Don't always stand out here and don't always try to play men against women! In the Committee you do not support our requests, esteemed colleagues from the Greens. Where our requests – how we can increase the small pensions for women, how we can count more child training times – are filed, you are opposed, but here, as soon as the camera runs, you stand out and try to present everything differently. That's not fair and that's not fair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:08]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12440	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines and is therefore properly submitted. Next speaker: Mr Karlheinz Kopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12472	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners! Unfortunately, due to the development of the infection figures in a second lockdown of the hotel industry, the gastronomy – in the first step – and now, from today, unfortunately, we also had to close many other establishments and facilities. The Minister of Finance has already said that it has succeeded very quickly, within a few days, of one or two weeks, to provide rapid help for the hotel industry and gastronomy for this phase of the lockdown with the 80 per cent revenue replacement, for which Mr Schellhorn, who is not otherwise critical of the government parties and also of the Minister of Finance, has at least weathered: “Ratz/Fetz – 5 min with Finanzonline”, within 5 minutes, the application via Finanzonline is completed. – That’s the way it is, I hear from many businesses. Mr Fuchs then did not accept any further criticism of this measure, so he wanted to move on to the formal and criticise why this is handled through the Cofag – but still does it through financial online and the data of the Ministry of Finance and the financial offices, but it will be merged in one place. That's very, very useful. Mr Fuchs, your concerns are about the businesses in Austria, which are quite different. The companies in Austria are concerned about how they cover the costs in their company, and they are worried about how they pay the salaries for their employees – now it's only right, since the 14. Their salary – as they secure the jobs of their employees, as they even ensure the survival of their companies. We are concerned about these concerns, the real concerns of these entrepreneurs, and not about formal issues or structural issues which the companies concerned are not at all interested in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the aid measures, which are now necessary in the economic sector, also work, the grants, whether this is the hard work fund, the family hard fund or much more, the loans, the support from taxes and social security contributions, the short-time work arrangements, which have been made – probably the most effective instrument in general, one to which other countries especially envy us – and the investment premium, so many things that help to help businesses through the rounds. But yes, there is still much to do and in the businesses many are at the brink of despair, many entrepreneurs, employees, travel agencies, bus companies, events and event technology companies, in the city hotels, in parts of the trade – no question at all. Therefore, the aid measures that have been in the design for some time now, fixed-cost grant phase two, and now also revenue replacement for the other sectors and companies affected by the lockdown, must quickly get under way and arrive at the enterprises. We will do everything we can to ensure that this will happen in the next few days, ladies and gentlemen. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neßler.]] But we must also look to the questions of the future. What happens to those loans or to late taxes and charges that may not be used at the time of date? Of course, not only can we talk about it, but we must also act here, extend deadlines, find solutions, up to adhering to demands from the state and much more. It's about Capitalisation measures for businesses, strengthening the investment power of businesses – the best and safest growth is still the investment driven – as well as supporting the exports and export activities of our companies. This, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Fuchs, are the real concerns of entrepreneurs, these are the economic challenges we face. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen – this is also a word for the many entrepreneurs involved –: We'll take care of these concerns! We are concerned about your real concerns and the challenges you have and the challenges you face, and not about side-by-side issues such as Mr Fuchs!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12547	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12569	Madam President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Austrian citizens! Today, we are negotiating a budget that has been calculated on a data basis – and the Minister of Finance has not disagreed at all – in which this new hard lockdown is not at all taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why this budget, as it is here, cannot hold. But yes, one of them was made clear by the Minister of Finance: All the aid that is now being paid out is paid out of his 20-billion basket money, which he has been granted by empowerment law in the spring of this year, and now he has to fried it out. But this is really the completely wrong way, ladies and gentlemen, for what I heard from my previous speaker was a revelation of the ÖVP. It is simply locked up planlessly, the entrepreneurs are left alone with their concerns and fears, they are abandoned. You don't give them the chance and the opportunity to go to work, instead you make them a bit bitter, help recipients, alms, and you make them dependent on it. This is exactly the system you can see there: The citizens, the citizens, the entrepreneurs, all should be made dependent. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen, and so our economy will not come up again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister! It's been quite exciting what you could see when you've been looking at the development in the last few weeks. You have, and this has been done precisely by Mr Fuchs, during all these budgetary negotiations apparently as if you did not know anything about this hard lockdown, as if you were not aware that it would come. ==References====External links== November, business expert Badelt has already mentioned that the lockdown will last until shortly before Christmas. They obviously did not know that, and the population was not allowed to know it either. It is exciting, however, that a friendly entrepreneur from the Federal Chancellor and from you in Vienna already wrote weeks before this gentle lockdown came, that his locals will lock again. So obviously there are the same things in this Republic, and they already know in advance what is planned when. Comes a gentle lockdown, is there a sharp lockdown? – All this must not be known to the population, you always have to keep it quiet, always keep it pretty stupid. That's where we work with panic, with fear, and we're kind of worried that they're all going to die now, and then they're gonna be quiet. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is the perfide policy of the ÖVP that you have been running for months now and which has already led us back to a lockdown that is a real existential threat for many people outside. Even after the first lockdown, it was so that many entrepreneurs did not know how to recover and compensate for these losses, but now they are doing much, much, much harder. Many have already announced that they are probably not going to lock up at all because it is no longer retiring for them, ladies and gentlemen. Austria is a country where over 60 percent of all jobs can be found in small and medium-sized enterprises, but the only ones that are supported by you are the large companies, but which are actually responsible for only a small proportion of jobs, Minister of State. On the other hand, you do not manage to increase the purchasing power of the population. You have a completely blind eye, you don't care. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: That's not true at all! Children's bonus...!]] . You can now cry out what you want, Mr EIA's colleague: They are the ÖVPs who will deal with this crisis to the workers and pensioners. They want to abolish long-term insurance on Friday. That's the first attack. What is to be expected next? Do we have the general pension plan? What are you planning? Sage You're honest with the people today, what you're planning to do about social reduction in this country, so that the Austrians can adapt to it! They are the ones that will have to pay for the crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly the game you're running here: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner]] They play with the population. They don't care if people are desperate. Only on Wednesday last week – it's not even a week ago – have we been sitting in here and have extended the lockdown light. The next day, there were already the headlines: It's a bit tighter. This could not be decided on Wednesday, because the dramaturgy had not yet been given. First, there was a press conference of the Federal Chancellor – of course on Saturday afternoon, so that the Austrians were all at home and in front of the television station – and then one had to say: Members must come in on Sunday because the situation is so dramatic. The only thing that matters to you is the dramaturgy, is that the direction builds it up well so that people actually fall into the anxiety and panic situation and so that they can also swallow your measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I also say to you: Fewer and fewer Austrians are ready to do so. What you've done this time is really no longer comprehensible. They have already locked the schools and kindergartens this time. You know, the first time the children might have been relatively neutral, but now they're scared and panicked, now it was a sad mood in the schools, because the children know what they're expecting because they're going back to Distancelearning because it just doesn't work and because of course children also need personal contact. That's the second school semester you're taking from our youth. You take the children a whole year of life – but maybe you don't care. Probably interested You do not at all think about the future of Austria, ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government! This is the future, and if you ever want to get back to Austria economically, you will also need well-trained young people, then you will also need children who have learned something in schools, young people, young adults who have been trained at universities – but all of this you are driving down, seeing eyes into chaos! I now make a request which is very important to me, because it also shows how you are going about things. They are responsible for the highest unemployment in the Second Republic. They are responsible for the fact that many people no longer know how to afford life. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would increase the purchasing power of many people in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12714	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12741	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people in front of the televisions, laptops – from wherever you watch us! Wherever you look at us is a good keyword: I can tell you that there are many things you can visit, for example the Art Week – this is always a highlight in November, at which all of Austria, you can say, all those who are interested in fine art, and not only from Austria, but also internationally, come to Vienna to see international artists, artists. You can do this this time, too, because there is the Art Week online. She is a good example of how art and cultural institutions, but also initiatives, artists, artists, anyone, try to find formats as they can in this lockdown. Thank you very much. Let me say something about the framework in which they do this: It is always said that the art, the artists were the last to get something in this pandemic. Unfortunately – or thank God, no matter how you want to see it – this is wrong. They were among the first to get something at all, through the Artist/Artist Social Insurance Fund, and it was one of the first of very many measures. Let me point out a few measures that are really, even in international comparison, so that one can say that Austria is, as far as this sector is concerned, really trying and has also been able to enforce it, as generously promoting and supporting: There are the NPO support funds at the top, i.e. those of which the non-profit organisations are: Sports, art, culture, the voluntary fire brigades – I have already done this at this point, that is a sector that is very broad. There are the recently established bridge funds in summer: There's now a lockdown bonus, 1 300 euros, so it's 2 300 euros in November, and I'm getting to thank God more and more of the credits that people are asking for and getting it very quickly – I want to thank all those who manage it in social security. There's a lot to be listed here. Today we will have the opportunity to talk about the arts and culture budget in detail, but it is important to me to see that it is the artists who find the forms to work in this lockdown, and I am therefore pleased that we can support them in the most varied way. I know it's always too little, but it's at least that we can secure the creativity, the commitment, all that. Let me conclude by saying that, by the way, I believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12784	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12808	Madam President. Estimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We have just heard – and more often today – from the Green Group that the government praises itself and that for the first time a budget should be adopted, taking into account that there is no planet B. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] When I heard that, I really believed I was spinning! Clubobfrau Maurer actually comes out here and wants to sell us this budget as a forward-looking budget. We all know – and this is no secret now, not even for the ÖVP delegates themselves – through the veins of the ÖVP flows concrete. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] As long as the last parking lot is not built, not the last motorway is built, no ÖVP delegate will rest – and what the greens do is nothing but that they actually owe themselves to the aid. 1 billion euros for climate protection and environmental protection are now being celebrated, while EUR 4.6 billion for environmental damage and environmental damage will continue to be spent in 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] If you look more closely at the budget, you see, if you look at the whole of Austria, that's not just a topic -- you can come out and articulate yourself here at the speaker's desk, dear ÖVP. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] It doesn't get any better when you shout out – the budget is and remains backward! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] It is also true that in the budget it is quite practical to see how much the greens are only suitable for the large carpets of climate protection. That is to say, one celebrates a record bike budget, and at the same time one spends millions on commuters who already have a very good public transport connection. One celebrates record funds for railway expansion, and at the same time one spends millions on diesel cars, on service vehicles. One celebrates for the protection of biodiversity, and at the same time one invests millions in the dispersal of our country. In fact, this is nothing but pain money that the Green Party gets from the ÖVP. It is true that there are millions for environmental protection and that billions are spent for its destruction. This is not sustainability. I would like to give a simple example, and with that I would like to end my speech again: Environment and climate protection do not have to cost billions. Environment and climate protection mean a change in our behaviour and a change in governance. We have now implemented a climate protection law and a greenhouse gas budget in Vienna – as the second city in Europe! It is our task for a progressive policy that we find new ways to make new policies without public debt that take responsibility for our environment and our planet. That is exactly what we expect from the Greens and sometimes also from the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12902	Now Mrs Bundesminister Elisabeth Köstinger has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12926	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The corona pandemic continues to hold Austria particularly firmly, especially Sectors such as tourism, gastronomy, the leisure industry, as well as the entire event industry are affected. Above all, this second lockdown, in which we had to go with today, is particularly hard on these areas – at this point a very great thank you to the Ministry of Finance, to the staff and above all to the Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel, that within a few days it has succeeded in putting up this 80 percent revenue replacement, to deal with it very quickly and unbureaucratically and thus to provide the best possible support for this industry. December is at the door. The farms must have the 14th place. Payment of monthly salaries. All of this, of course, is also a massive support for employees in these sectors. We are currently working with high pressure on the fact that subcontractors, i.e. all areas that are indirectly affected by current closures, also receive revenue replacements. Above all, I should like to mention the travel agencies which are in a particularly difficult situation. However, as is particularly true of tourism, gastronomy, the leisure industry and the event industry in Austria, the willingness to invest despite the long-term crisis shows. Compared to the first three quarters of the previous year, investment subsidies by ÖHT increased by around 10 percent in 2020. This is also the reason why we need to amend the SME Funding Act today and increase the existing liability framework of EUR 375 million, already used up to 90 percent, once again by 625 million. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] How important and, above all, system-relevant these sectors and areas for our entire economic system, for which many SMEs are SMEs, is evidenced by the massive investment of the hoteliers, the gastronomy, the entire event and leisure industry. This will then also benefit installers, furniture tablers, as well as tile-laying or painting plants. We depend on the tourism industry looking positively into the future despite this crisis and now taking money into its hands, and we want to support that. The Covid Investment premium can be used in addition to the existing support and financing possibilities of the EHT, which is also an important addition. We therefore create a double incentive. I am very grateful to the Austrian hotel and tourism bank at this point with all its employees, who have been working with high pressure for many months and who support this industry with liability, credit guarantees, investment promotions. A great deal of thanks goes to the many entrepreneurs, who cannot be discouraged by this crisis, but on the contrary, they are already considering what they can do in the future in order to continue to position Austria as the best and safest holiday country in the world. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12974	Now Mrs Bundesminister Leonore Geessler has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e12996	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Many questions come to the budget in a general debate, for example: Is the budget a future budget? – Yes, it is because it has a climate budget It is. Does the budget offer perspective? – Yes, with more money in climate protection than ever before, because it is a climate budget. Is more going? – Yes, this budget shows not only with more money in the breakdowns in the BMK for climate protection than ever before in Austria, but with 40 percent of the applications for an investment premium that relates to climate protection, with a municipal package with a climate protection focus, with more and more consistent climate protection in a budget than ever before. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the same time, I can calm down colleagues Michi Bernhard, who apparently thinks that we stop working for climate protection with this budget. - No, it's a springboard. This budget is a springboard for more investment, but also the windwind for all the tax measures that follow, of course! This government has undertaken to achieve climate neutrality in 2040. This requires a climate protection budget, and many more steps are needed, and of course we are working on it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One of these, and this is also the occasion of my speech, is the debate today, a pre-examination law on the ÖBB Framework Plan. With the ÖBB Framework Plan, we invest 17.5 billion euros in the next six years in the development of a modern infrastructure, in a modern rail infrastructure. The question is not: Why now? – Especially now, railway development shows that climate protection is the economic impulse, the economic engine we need – from investments in railway infrastructure to a modern railway station – an average of 80 percent of orders to Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises – especially now it takes 17.5 billion euros for the railway infrastructure! With this framework plan – it is the most comprehensive framework that Austria has ever seen – we invest in all three pillars in public transport. We not only invest in a cheap ticket, we also invest in a good offer, and we invest in a modern infrastructure. We have committed ourselves in the government programme to increase investment in railway infrastructure by 5 percent. With this framework plan we also solve this 5-percent increase per year. A comparison: Austria invests almost twice as much in the railway infrastructure as Germany per capita, and this also makes international wind quite clear. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this framework plan there are many large projects that are required, but the framework plan is an economic impulse, and that is why we have looked at exactly what we can do in addition. Which projects can we prefer? This framework plan provides for EUR 3 billion for new projects by 2026. In addition, there is additional investment, in total an investment volume of 8 billion euros, in all federal states. From the Eastern Region to Vorarlberg, we will invest and modernise, with a focus on those areas where the greatest impact and the most urgent need for expansion. We will make a better contribution to quality with a better infrastructure and a better offer in the next few years, especially in local and local transport. Many regional railways will benefit, and you will see that. I would also like to conclude by hoping and building on broad support for this railway package in this House: With this largest railway package, which Austria has ever seen, we are rebuilding Austria – not in the transferred sense, but in the literal sense. We're modernizing train stations. We modernize good railway lines. We invest in the development of an infrastructure that makes Austria fit for the future. We all benefit from this ÖBB framework plan, not only from better infrastructure, but also from better quality of life, from good and future-proof jobs that we create with the investments in rail infrastructure. With this We are making an upgrade for Austria. I thank you in advance for your broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13064	Mr Peter Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13088	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciate spectators at home! You have now heard from the two ministers what is forward-looking. I think that's very important. Mr Bernhard, I would like to tell you two things. The first is: In every ÖVPler there is a lot of blood for our Austria and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I made a small contribution to the subject. “The new coalition in Vienna: Who should not have the time to read the over 200 pages thick coalition pact, here is a very short summary [...]: State, State, State, State, State. Liberal content? ‘Failure of a Member State to fulfil This is not from me, but from a certain Mr Schellhorn, but from Franz, ladies and gentlemen – so only that we know what we are talking about. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] That is why I want to devote myself to the budget again and say quite clearly that we have a two-part budget. On the one hand, the focus is on how we guide and support our entrepreneurs and employees from the crisis, and on how we can invest in the future to make our location and, of course, our companies future-oriented and competitive for the future. That is why we are in principle different, namely, access to labour market policy alone. We are investing most of the funds that have ever been invested in the labour market in the Second Republic, only do we understand labour market policy a little different from SPÖ. We do not want to manage unemployment, but we want to shape the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the big difference. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we rely on an apprenticeship bonus, which is very important because the future of the professionals lies in dual training. That is why we are fighting by all means to get young people into the teaching professions, to encourage and support entrepreneurs to train apprentices and thus really skilled workers, which we also urgently need for the future. Secondly, of course, there is an investment premium. This is not only the best measure for investment in businesses and in the location, but also for securing and creating new jobs. This is the mark of this government's labour market policy, and it can be seen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I have a big request to you and to all Austrians: Support the domestic economy! Buy your goods on the Internet from Austrian businesses, from Austrian dealers, and get your lunch or dinner from the Austrian host! He's looking forward to cooking for you. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13164	Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13185	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, especially dear spectators at home! During the “press hour” on Sunday Chancellors were asked briefly why there had not been more stringent measures before, and he tried democracy as justification. He said that “we live in a democracy”, and there the Chancellor “cannot decide alone”. This is an exciting statement in the context of school closures, because the co-determination was by no means required. There was no opinion on the opinions of numerous experts from medicine, from the public health field, from psychology, from childhood medicine and youth medicine, nor on the doctor's chamber, nor even on parents and pupils. Not just that: Also, the Institute as the Ministry of Health and its own Coronameple Commission, which voted unanimously – apart from the renunciation of the representative of the Federal Chancellor's Office – for school opening, was not heard. Not least, the Federal Minister for Education – he is not here right now – has also worked to ensure that the schools remain open. One might think that German Chancellor Kurz has demed his own government members, and that's how it looks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, although Western Europe is also in a partial lockdown or in a lockdown state, Western Europe has kept schools open. Germany has the schools open, Ireland has the schools open. Ireland is a good example to see how quickly the number of infections can go down with consistent measures without closing the schools, where the situation has relaxed within a few weeks. The specific question is as follows: Who then – today, tomorrow and in the future – bears the responsibility for this false decision to close the schools? – This government and the Federal Chancellor probably do not, because the budget presented in no way addresses the deficits from the first lockdown and not those from the present situation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] More funding was needed, more educators needed, more support staff needed to expand the schools all day long. We don't see all of this in this budget. What we have here is a pop-up chance index – unfortunately, I really don't think so. It is once 15 million euros in a year to support schools with challenges. They are budgets for computers coming to school in the next school year, that is, 2021/2022, and then only for the 5th and 6th. Classes. This is a forget of the future, ladies and gentlemen, and really steals our children's future! The dilemma we see today is the following: Parents must ask themselves: What am I doing with the kids now? Yesterday, Secretary General Netzer addressed the parents again in the “Time in Picture 2” and said: Please leave the children at home! – On the other hand, parents have to go to work, because there is no claim to special care time. Then they should somehow juggle between Home Office and Homeschooling, and you know from the first phase exactly that this doesn't work. But most of all, I'm sorry to the teachers because they're invited to be flexible. You must do online teaching, on the other hand the Support for students who are in school somehow ensure that they also support them in learning and small groups and provide online tools in the school. This is not the case with one and the same teacher at best. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] To do this in just two days is Harakiri. If it works, it is in fact due to the commitment of teachers once again to let the school function somehow, but certainly not to the Federal Minister of Education and even to the questionable concept of democracy of our chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13258	Next speaker: Mrs Heike Grebien. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13283	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear Colleagues! Dear Seers! Today, the awareness-raising offer should have taken place for you as Members of Parliament. Because of the high number of infections, together with the Parliamentary Directorate, we have decided to postpone this. We will start a new approach in the first half of 2021. Thank you to all the colleagues of all political groups, the Parliamentary Directorate and the National Council President for their support, but above all I would like to thank the organisations and associations that have agreed to make offers for you under these difficult circumstances. – Thank you very much, and we will see you in the next half-year. Now to the budget: As spokesperson for people with disabilities of the Green Club, I would like to be pleased, despite these challenging times, because we have managed to make 40 million euros from the general budget for the year 2021 and 2022 in addition to measures to include people with disabilities. According to our calculations, nearly 7 000 people can participate more in a training and qualification measure. This is an enormously important step, Ladies and gentlemen, these measures will make people with disabilities well prepared for the coming labour market situation. I am convinced that people with disabilities will find a job more easily after that, and that is and was our goal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Covid-19 crisis also highlights another issue, namely the issue of de-institutionalization. In order to comply with Article 19 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled – self-determined life and inclusion in the Community – there are already considerations in the area of housing facilities which are intended to allow for inclusive living and living. At the same time, there are already successful pilot projects, such as the Garconnierenverband of the association Habit or the inclusive community in which I was allowed to live. In the care sector, we have planned and budgeted the project of the Communitynurses. Another measure is the introduction of a large pilot project of a comprehensive personal assistance, with a success in securing 20 million euros. All these measures aim to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market and in the Community and to facilitate self-determined life within the meaning of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13331	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13355	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Wöginger said in his speech today that this budget is on a solid foundation. I would like to say that this budget is no more than a screenplay for the series “Puch on Construction”; Mr Nussbaum would hardly have had a problem challenging the sustainability of this foundation. When we look at the last weeks and months, we see that IHS and Wifo hardly meet to change the forecasts. We've talked about a 6.8% minus in October, now it's 7.7 percent, and after the lockdown it goes towards 9 percent. The economy will recover considerably weaker than expected in the next few years. We are already far away from economic growth of 4 percent next year. What has been left of the budget speech of our Minister of Finance? – In his budget speech one month ago, the Minister of Finance has explained to us: make temporary debts; we must not finance prosperity at the expense of our children; Debt liars are climate liars; in the long term, high sovereign debt harms our society; also cheap money has to be repaid – and, and, and. But he said that we could afford to do so because there has been a sound budgetary policy in recent years, and it will do everything to prevent a second lockdown. In the meantime, however, many Austrians are wondering: What was done to prevent this second lockdown? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Were the capacities increased in our hospitals? Was more staff employed? Have there been concepts or concepts to prevent our schools from being closed down as it is now happening? Is there any rules that can be planned for the economy so that it can adapt to this situation? Why are breathing equipment transferred abroad if the only reason for a lockdown is that our health system could be overloaded? There are many questions that ask themselves, but there are no answers to them. But what has really happened in recent weeks? - We have the second lockdown. At least EUR 3 billion will be forecast for the economy. The government debt ratio will rise from 85 percent previously assumed to 90 percent and the economy will again be heavily damaged. Mr Blümel, Minister of Finance, quoted Figl and said: “I ask you: Believe in this Austria!” – I can tell you: The Austrians believe in this country, but they do not believe in this government for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The sad reality that will overtake us and, above all, our future is that the debt of today will be the taxes of tomorrow – we are talking about sovereign debt of 60 billion euros, which in these two years will be the result of the measures of this government. If you convert this, it is about 14 000 euros more per person employed. This means that every Austrian in employment now has 14 000 euros more debts. One could finance the coral railway twelve times, one could build 150 000 single-family houses: It is EUR 60 billion that the government is responsible for these measures. We could afford this, our Minister of Finance meant, but obviously we cannot afford it, because the ÖVP begins with a rigorous social reduction: The hacker scheme is to be abolished again this week. 45 years of work are obviously not enough for ÖVP and Greens. The EUR 40 to 70 million, which would cost the hackler scheme per year, we obviously cannot afford. In return, however, we are committed to paying more to Brussels from 2021 onward 400 million euros. In return, however, we are committed to the fact that large companies such as Amazon and Google remain spared to this day and are still the great winners of this crisis. Your appeal, Mr Haubner of the ÖVP, is very little help. Amazon and Google will be the great winners of this crisis and will remain spared until now from all the payments they have to make. From our point of view, this is the wrong way: to reduce the purchasing power today and the people who have worked hard in this country and built it up to remove and take away their deserved pension. What it needs is support for the economy and the population in this difficult phase, and that is why economic measures are needed. I would therefore like to repeat our motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a useful measure: for the approximately 7.4 million Austrians each, a voucher of 1 000 euros. Of this, some 2.4 billion euros would return directly to the social system and as tax revenue. This would invigorate the economy accordingly and strengthen the purchasing power accordingly. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13511	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13538	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! As in spring, the lockdown and the budget meet. Our Minister for Finance has put forward a budget which is not only intended to break down, but also sets the course for the future. There is still room for manoeuvre in this budget, as there is more budget for Covid aid measures than has been paid out so far. Health is currently the key to the development of the economy. In my last speech, I have already made an appeal to the opposition: There's really no place for party-political hack now. We need to fight the virus together to: to enable recovery of our economy. We are still concerned with protecting the location of Austria and our companies. Of course, with the second lockdown, significant damage is done to the domestic economy. These are, according to IHS, lower than in spring, and without this lockdown the damage would probably be even greater. The State aid will be extended to cover all those who had to close their operations due to the extended lockdown. We have a mix of rescue and relief measures and these are absolutely necessary. There is no country in Europe that takes as much money as Austria. As the experts have indicated in the budget hearing, the measures work – otherwise, there would be more insolvency and unemployment would be much higher. With investments in digitalization, education, security and the labour market, we want to bring Austria back on track. The experts assume that the second quarter of 2021 will be better than this third quarter. A prerequisite for this is, of course, that there will be tourism from January onwards. We are a tourist country, and therefore Austria cannot be compared to Germany, which is supposed to be better economically than we are through the crisis. Germany has much less tourism than we do. The experts also say that perhaps only in two or three years will it be possible to see which countries will better get out of the crisis. In the medium term, however, we need to return to a sustainable budget path. In other words, we have to keep our budget properly and reduce the debt ratio considerably again. We have proved that this works with the budget 2018 and 2019. It is a question of being able to implement important reforms which we wanted to address before the crisis and which are also in the government programme. It's just a regular household. In 2015, we had a government debt of 85 percent of GDP. At the beginning of 2020, debt was 70 percent. It will probably increase to 85 percent by the end of the year. You can see: The budget surplus generated in previous years can now be used very well in the crisis. You can also say it with the words of Joschi Kirschner: You have to “see rightfully that you have it when you need it. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13583	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13608	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear members of the government! Mr Finanzminister! Since there have been several members of the ÖVP who have quoted me, but are obviously afraid to say my name – first, Mr. Head said it – I do not like to say: [[call to the FPÖ]] It worked quickly and it worked well. I'm not going to say I already have the money on the account. There are two hearts in my chest: on the one hand, that of the entrepreneur, who must say: Finally, something went a little fast, at last a little compact and liquid, without great bureaucracy. – That’s right, you also have to pay tribute. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] But now I want to come to the next point – as you, Minister of Finance, have always said – that the budget has been put into figures. This budget you have presented lacks the future component. And to the future component: We also need to see the future in terms of revenue and expenditure. [[Abg. Wöginger: Now the speech has started well!]] - Yes, Gust Wöginger, I'll be right there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In order to look into the future, you have to keep thinking – and there I come back to the 80 percent revenue replacement –: These corona numbers did not fall from the sky and they disappeared on the 8th. Not in hell on December. The point is: What do we do when the lockdown, especially for tourism, is even longer? Is there then also the 80 percent replacement? Mr Ottenschlager did not quote me by name, but he meant that it was contradictory. – No, it is not contradictory, because if you continue the 80 percent revenue in December for trade and tourism, then we are immediately in a double-digit billion area, and then the Minister of Finance flies around the ears in such a way that he no longer knows himself in the front and in the back. That's the jumping point! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is why we have said that the EUR 800 000 ceiling is completely incorrect access to aid and that we should examine aid in accordance with the type. 107 para. 2 lit. b, the disaster paragraph, is compatible that we – that would be much more targeted; that is the second heart that beats in my chest – continue a loss compensation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We have to think more than just by 8. December. My previous speaker said so casually – it just doesn't seem to anyone to notice –: Tourism will lock up again in mid-January. As an entrepreneur, I know nothing about this planning. Obviously, the sentence has sprung out of you. In the government one will try to get up slowly. ==References====External links== January will go up to save the winter season. – Yes, but then it takes the courage of the Minister of Finance to say what is happening in January and especially in December. I would like this to be done by the Deputy Chancellor, who is a People's Minister, and in particular by the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If you're talking to the entrepreneurs, it's mainly about one thing: Liquidity, liquidity, liquidity! That's why it was so important now to be able to pay the Christmas money. It will be much more important, however, that we can balance that many farms on 31 December. In December, it was possible to balance at all. This requires planning security and mechanisms. I wish this to be done by the government because we – and many businesses – are equally innocent in this disaster. Although we are still just as innocent today, in some areas, especially in the West, there is no compensation under the Epidemic Law at all. This liquidity is lacking the companies we need now. As Mr Haubner also quoted Franz Schellhorn: Yes, he is also critical of you, not only is he positive toward you, but he criticizes this dubious state apparatus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] – Mr Obernosterer, yes, it is important to have investment grants. But what will help me with an investment grant if I have a dubious state apparatus and my permission to invest at all takes more than six months? That's the point! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] These are incentives that are entirely correct but not relevant. So what do we need? – There are four points: We must now try to think again about the EU framework in order to exploit it efficiently, Minister of Finance. We now have to try to guarantee liquidity and, above all, to balance businesses, because the banks will have to make an operation due at the latest. The banks themselves are now talking about: If we do not react quickly, we will have 30 billion euros on lazy loans at the latest in the middle of 2021! But then the budget flies us around our ears again, because then we probably have to save some banks, and that's the next problem. We need a rescue, especially for the winter season, but also this so-called shield. Give the company the opportunity to lock up! What do entrepreneurs do especially in terms of winter? – They put liquidity before profitability. They already pay for it, but de facto don't get a bill for a long time. How does winter tourism work with deposit accounts? – Mr Obernosterer knows, only: These deposit accounts are empty, i.e. they lack liquidity. They must have the opportunity to be able to lock up even if they can expect profitability. Finally, Mr Finanzminister, we need one thing, above all: to renovate rather than close it. We need to think about how we can reorganize businesses, what opportunities we can bring about, so that not only is it closed, because this would not only be an entrepreneurial destiny but it would also be linked to a private destiny. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for your consent. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:06]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13805	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Kraker, has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13830	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Budget 2021 and the current debate are characterized by the fact that state funding is billions high are made available to offset the diverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on society. Many things are still unclear, because we are still in the middle of the crisis, and I say here: In the crisis, the state must ensure stability, deliver it, whether in terms of health, the labour market, the economy, the social and educational sector or tourism. That is, I believe, undisputed, now - I say this on the first day of the second lockdown in Austria - absolute priority, and that is what the Court of Auditors sees. The current situation at the same time also leads us more than ever to see how important it is that public systems are stable and crisis-resistant. In the so-called good times, we must not forget that we have to take care of, and this includes the effective and transparent use of funds for which the Court of Auditors is responsible. The payment of a financial year shall be made in the respective national accounts in the following year. It is now the general debate on the 2021 budget, but with the debate there is the federal financial statements 2019, which are only in the budget committee on 6 June. ==References== The year 2019 was a good financial year. It was an economically good year, and at that time this still good economy brought high tax revenue. They were a major reason why there were surpluses in the result and in the financing budget. The federal financial debt fell in 2019 compared to 2018, both as a percentage of GDP and as a nominal. The earnings budget achieved a positive net result in 2019 at EUR 819 million, and in the financing budget a net net financial balance of EUR 1.48 billion was equally positive. Tax revenue increased by 2.5 billion euros, while expenditure was only around a billion euros. The highest tax receipts were derived from the VAT and the wage tax. The Federal Government's assets increased by 3.3 billion euros, with financial debt falling by 2.8 billion euros to a total of 208.76 billion euros. Net assets remained negative at minus EUR 150.7 billion, but improved by EUR 3.6 billion. Overall, the state reported a public surplus of 0.7 percent of GDP in 2019. Public debt fell from 74 percent of GDP in 2018 to 70.4 percent of GDP in 2019. It has already been mentioned today: The general government tax rate was 42.5% of GDP. That was the reason why nominal GDP increased by 3.3 percent over the same period, but tax revenue and social contributions increased by 3.8 percent. There is a report on how we could redesign the billing – it was asked about it; I will present it to the House and the Ministry of Finance. There are proposals for reforming the reserve system. And I would like to draw your attention at this point in time to the fact that there are also evaluation results on the reform of the budget law. There can be a debate on budgetary improvements in order to ensure that transparent and comprehensible budgeting is better possible even in current crisis situations, because transparent budgeting will then also build on transparent accounts, which can reveal how the implementation was carried out. I can announce that in the financial statements for the year 2020 and in this context, we will present the financial flows in the federal budget, in particular through the crisis management fund to the individual Subdivisions of the Federal Budget, which want to contribute to transparency, so that you can also understand the flows of funds. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13890	Thank you. The next item is Mrs Meri Disoski's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13914	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Minister's bench! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! I can't stand here as a woman's spokesman for the Greens without sharing my horror with you in the first place. In an interview yesterday the former President of the ÖVP National Council and Federal President Andreas Khol said that SPÖ-Chefin Pamela Rendi-Wagner had called for one. So, women who criticize and express a different opinion are supposed to get a wax? - Are you all right?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] The excuse that has then been made was more than just appropriate, but it does not reduce my horror at this totally unacceptable intrusion of violence against women and also its underlying structural sexism. I am really angry that men in positions of power – or men who once held such positions – always, time and again believe that they can deal with women in this way. This is a very last-class one, the more so than it is from the former President of the House, the President of the National Council. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Now to my actual speech in the context of the general debate, which focuses on pension adjustments. With the increase of the minimum pension to EUR 1,000, the Federal Government has taken not only an important step towards combating poverty in the middle of the most severe post-war economic crisis, but also a strong sign of social justice. What does that look like? - Let's look at the numbers: Low pensions up to 1 000 euros rise by 3.5 percent, until 1 400 euros the increase is linearly down to 1.5 percent and from 2 333 euros the increase is covered by a fixed amount of 35 euros. This increase in the compensation allowance brings minimum pensioners in addition 440 euros per year. The increase in pensions in the lower part of the population is particularly beneficial for women. Why is that so? – From the increase in the compensation allowance to 1 000 euros, a total of around 200 000 minimum pensioners benefit, more than two thirds of which are women. With 42 percent, the gender pension gap between women and men in Austria is shamefully high, even in the European comparison. Only in Malta, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, the so-called Gender Pension Gap is higher than in Austria. That's why it's good that with this above-average increase in low pensions, we alleviate the pension gap. As a woman's speaker, I am pleased, of course, as a green person, because the fight against poverty among women is a central concern for us. With these pension adjustments, we are taking an urgent, important step, and that is a good thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also clear that further steps are necessary for further steps to be taken. This is also seen by looking at the trapezoidal study that the Federal Chancellery – the Women and Equality Section – has done with Wifo and Forba, the Both experts Mayrhuber and Mairhuber conducted this study. They come to the conclusion in this study that we need to become active at structural levels in particular, with regard to labour market policy, wage transparency is a major issue, the structural framework conditions in order to improve childcare are a major issue. Of course, the uneven distribution of paid and unpaid work by women and men is also a major issue. These are the main reasons for this pension gap in the pension system. With the compensatory allowance we hope to decide today, we are taking a first step. Later on, as part of the urgent request, we will also talk about a next step, discussing what we are going together, that is the early starter bonus. Of course, it is important to the Greens and me as women's spokesperson that we also take next steps in the area of labour market inequality in the distribution of paid and unpaid work. That's what we're going to do, because women deserve fairness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e13984	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14008	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Much has already been said about derailments. I too cannot stand here without the fact that respect here in the House is sometimes left to wish for. I must point out that an almost eighty-year-old former President of the National Council has made absolutely inappropriate statements and can save himself this verbal violence and this sexism, and some colleagues here too – this has already happened here. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] One has a party president not to judge such a thing to a club leader! I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:...not only... Party leader!]] Ladies and gentlemen, A budget must secure jobs, save businesses. As far as job security is concerned, this budget, although it is a crisis budget, is very lax on the way. The 700 million euros for the AMS are at best a return of money that has been partially removed. A build-up of the staff at the AMS – that has already been driven back in the past time, there is now a bit of an addition. The so-called Corona Work Foundation, the Future Foundation – as you would like to call it – is a training programme for the future and is now helping job seekers much less than it should be. That is to say, saving jobs can only fail to achieve this budget. Saving companies, we've heard a lot today, works once more, once less, at the moment a little better. This is something of this kind to all entrepreneurs who are now suffering very, very much in this crisis. But what I want to do today is: A budget must also secure small incomes, must be poor and socially sound. This is also not the case in this budget. Last week we discussed the budget accompanying laws in the Budget Committee: This hundred for children of minimum pensioners or persons involved in social assistance is new worth 20 million euros. Only if there is money left, there is also an energy hundred for very poor families. I say: Social festival is something else, it is not fulfilled. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, the increase in the women's budget has just covered the important time-use study with which we should be able to determine once again after ten years who is doing what work, paid/unpaid to be able to draw our conclusions from it as a politician and politician. In this area too, there is not enough money for real measures to protect violence and others. Because a government would also have to be forward-looking, much has been announced in this regard before the microphones and at press conferences, but very little of it has been implemented. On behalf of my party chairman, Dr.in Pamela Rendi-Wagner, I would like to present a motion for a resolution, namely that it is necessary to be a government foresight, data transparency and control of the effectiveness of the Covid measures to protect the population. It was not even called on, but often that it was important to see that data bases are made transparent, that also a scientific accompaniment, a monitoring takes place – from experts who have weekly to report to the National Council, to us, how the measures have developed. The Supreme Council of Sanity has not been re-occupied, for example, it could do so. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a long way off. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14155	This motion for a resolution is also properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14179	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Unfortunately, I have to go into it briefly now, Mrs Heinisch Hosek, even if it was not planned for my speech, but I am quite a bit baff. It is not always possible to represent anti-discrimination if it fits into the concept. I mean, when you see Tyrol, what your colleague has done there, with “horizontals” and such sentences, I experience it the same way. However, they make themselves up and say: Let's talk about the tone! . I have never experienced a committee like the last one with Federal Minister Raab, in which your group has been so aggressively talking to the Minister. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Were you at...? I mean, I don't know! Incredible!]] She was sitting here and I was incredibly sorry. I thought it really can't be true that they're being attacked in a normal committee, especially since she managed to generate 43 percent more budget for women's affairs. Somehow I feel like you're talking about something else. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At that time, I think, there was an ephod between Maria Rauch-Kallat and you – that is something that happened in this house; you can find it well or not – that even the federal anthem was sealed so that it fits. I think you're no longer connected to the spirit you had at the time, because at that time there was another lock among women. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kollross]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you say that to the khol?]] To my actual point: Austria as a country of family businesses. We have entrepreneurs out there who are also fathers, mothers, coaches, teachers and sponsors of their local associations, starting from football to social associations. These people are desperate, and we have, with this budget, primarily to ensure that we help them in this difficult situation. Now I have to go to NEOS, because Sepp Schellhorn – he is now, I think, not in the hall – spoke earlier. I feel that this is deeply populist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Beate Meinl-Reisinger is here, I can reproduce on her: I think that what you're saying here is pure populism, that's nothing but what comes from a different corner, when I'd call academics' stratagem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eypeltauer and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, courage is not always loud, courage is also sometimes responsible quietly, withdrawn and not escalating. [[Abg. Loacker: What do you know about? With courage? You can't even write the word!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I experience this permanent escalation in a disease situation in which the entrepreneurs really do not know how to proceed – even the parents, not a question – but sometimes it would be good to withdraw a little bit more quietly and to leave something on this budget. Unfortunately, I am now at the end of my speaking time, actually I wanted to look at something quite different, on the ÖHT enforcement framework, which is very good for hotels, but also for all other companies in the regions. [[Call:This is the blessing of the Rules of Procedure]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Not so beautifully formulated – does that mean that the opposition may be silent?]] We have bakeries out there that depend on it. We have carpenters out there, we have painters, we have installers and all the trading companies that depend on them. I cannot understand why the SPÖ is voting against this funding law either. Perhaps it is due to the fact that in their ranks, as I believe – I just counted through – only three people with entrepreneurial background are. I do not understand why we do not vote in favour of this, although this is a real rescue action for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14308	The next speaker is Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14329	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners! It is said that the budget is cast into figures policy. If you want to do so, you have to say that the current budget is the German government's failure to deal with the corona crisis and a continuation of the disinformation ideology towards the Austrian Parliament and the Austrian population. For the coming year, our highly esteemed Minister of Finance Blümel expects revenue of 75 billion euros with expenditures of just under 98 billion euros, with a high deficit of 22.6 billion euros or a Maastricht deficit of 9.8 percent. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, are even beautiful, yes outdated, because they are based on a prognosis that does not take into account the current hard lockdown. Let me put it in plastic and graphic form: The Federal Minister for Finance Blümel directs the ship of Austrian finances through the fog from false figures to a gloomy future for our people. The government has clearly learned nothing from the findings and experiences of the first lockdown and the first wave at all, for one thing is clear, a lockdown, as it is now being carried out, does more damage than that it helps. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not Sars-Cov-2 is to blame for the financial abuse, the huge budget deficit and the economic crisis in which we are in, and which is now prolonged by the government's measures, no, the government itself bears significant responsibility for its actions. Let me briefly explain this: Hotel industry and gastronomy are locked, without planning, without perspective, from when again a regulated business will be possible. The shops are closed, and one takes in the buying that the sales to international online dealers do not pay a cent tax in Austria. People in Austria are being detained, no matter if they are tested negatively and thus do not pose a risk to other people or not, the schools are closed and the children are deprived of their right to education. However, in order to compensate for any damage that would not have occurred without the measures taken by the Federal Government, arbitrary and non-equivalent sales are paid for this, according to the opinion of the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's exactly how it is!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But let me make an alternative proposal: What if we were to bring at least some of these billions and invest them directly in the Austrian health system? What if we were to pay the doctors and nurses better with this money if we were to try to increase the number of nurses or even to get caregivers back from the pension and activate them again? What if we were to make sure that this money would be used to employ additional epidemic doctors and people for contact tracking? What if we were to use this money to increase capacity in the stationary and intensive medical fields and to cooperate with the private clinics? What if we were to use this money to restore the army to the strategic reserve that it could be in the Austrian health care system by finally making use of the three field ambulances and the army centres again? Yes, and what if we were to invest the money in the collection of solid and reliable figures so that we could actually better assess the current situation? Instead of testing around, we really needed regular cross-sectional testing of the Austrian population, not after the total lockdown, as Mr. Federal Chancellor Kurz proposes, but before, as a evidence-based basis for further action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gödl.]] What if we had raised the dark figures in the first wave and perhaps even now at the beginning of the second wave? – Then we would not need to fear death, but then we could actually act on a scientific basis. Last but not least: What if we had also taken a little of the money in order to better investigate the condition of Covid-19 in Austria and to explain what the many dead actually died of by carrying out reasonable obductions of the covid deaths? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] None of this has happened over the summer and autumn, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, we are now in the second hard lockdown, and that by numbers that do not give it in any way. With the last three figures – if you can believe these numbers that are officially published – there is a halving of the case numbers and an initial decrease in the number of intensive patients. As this is supposed to be the reason for a hard lockdown, that doesn't matter to me in any way. That is why I would like to tell you one of the honourable members of the Federal Government: Stop working against the people in this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do your homework! Make sure that the risk groups are effectively protected! Build up appropriate treatment capacities so that we can safely get through the winter, and end the restrictions on freedom of the Austrian population, because only in this way will you get our support and the support of the citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14399	Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14423	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! A first replica on colleagues Kaniak: These are beautiful desires, pious desires. I would ask you, among other things, to address them to the Mayor of Wels, where we are currently nine days after contact tracking. There, for example, one would have the same thing in hand and could recruit personnel accordingly. So not only do you always wish to address to the government, but where you yourself have responsibility, do so as well! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Let's get back here. Mr Kaniak has just pretended that the figures underlying the lockdown would not be right. I'll deliver them to: In the last 24 hours there have been 6,000 newly infected people, there have been 4,525 people in hospitals with Covid-19, there have been 658 people who have to be treated at ICU stations, speak intensively, and there have been 58 in addition to Covid-19 deaths – these are the numbers. That's why there's been a hard lockdown just since midnight. This is the reason why this lockdown is alternativesless, because the doctors, the physicians, the medicaments, the medicaments, the people who work in the hospitals, who are supposed to ensure every day that people are cared for, that people are made healthy, are currently standing with their backs on the wall. It is our task as a politician to help these people, and this is best done by minimizing the inflow of sick people, and that is why there is the lockdown. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This also has something to do with taking responsibility. This also has to do with what we did in the main committee last Sunday, namely to take on responsibility and say: Okay, given these figures, we must act in view of this situation. It has nothing to do with responsibilities if one ignores the pandemic and the burden in health care or simply speaks small, just as the colleagues from the FPÖ likes to do. [[Call the FPÖ: Shit!]] It also has nothing to do with responsibility when you go here and look for excuses so as not to vote in this House, just as it happened on Sunday by Social Democracy. It is also not necessarily a responsibility to set up five-point plans at an early stage, with all five points either in implementation or simply not as possible. Nor does it show any responsibility to simply ignore already made contributions and statements on the financing of the health care system and to stand out here and always count around, although there are already corresponding contributions and statements made by the Federal Ministers on this subject. Until 6.12. hopefully the numbers will be so far down that we can get out of this lockdown again. The figures will hopefully also be so far down that we don't need a third lockdown anymore. Until then, of course, the contact tracking – I am already there – is to be increased accordingly. The countries, the districts are required. Mr Kaniak, as I said, please tell your own mayor! He could already be a part of it. I also hope that until then the opposition will discover a sense of responsibility, because then we need it. The pandemic will still not be over. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14475	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14496	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! The law, in particular the Bundesbahngesetz, requires that the ÖBB-Infrastructure AG should be created annually for a period of six years. What will be expected of such a framework at present? – Quite clearly: It is a question of decarbonizing transport in general. Of course, investment in the rail infrastructure sector plays a very important role here. This framework plan, which was currently presented by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs in October, can certainly be seen. In fact, it meets the requirements that freight transport is transferred to the rail, that the railway is made more attractive as a carrier of public passenger transport. Station constructions are planned, station renovations are planned, and accessibility is to be promoted. – That’s all good and right. This plan therefore finds our approval and can also be quite praised, the problem is: It's just a plan. This framework plan is presented by the Federal Minister – she is quite happy to do so, just as the climate budget with the label Klimabudget is available, so she is quite happy to distribute labels – that is to say, again as the largest framework plan so far. It is purely numerical whether it is actually going to be, it will only prove to be true if it is implemented. I would like to make an offer to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also a certain warning: As can be seen in connection with the very complex development of the 1-2-3-year ticket, already very massive resistances come from the federal states governed by Turquoise or Black. I've got the suspicion that the label distribution connects the green party with the turquoise party. I would also admit to the Minister that she is very serious about this with the label, but I believe that it is rather the case with the ÖVP that it is actually only about the label. If the ÖVP wants to position itself as a climate party, I will become very suspicious and very skeptical. As I said, Everything we experience in connection with the 1-2-3 ticket now clearly points in this direction. So I really want to say to the Federal Minister: Be very careful with allegations, because you will also be measured by the actions and the implementation, and not only by a plan which is admittedly a good plan. In this sense, I support the implementation of this plan, but it will be very difficult with the EIA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14536	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14563	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Budget debates have a certain ritual, obviously it is one of the tasks of the opposition parties to criticize the budget. That's true today, it's been so in the past few years. In fact, this is the question: What substance does this criticism actually have that? I would like to take advantage of an area that I really find remarkable, because there is very little substance given: The SPÖ says in every second speech, even before, that the government is currently doing nothing for the fight against unemployment, for the labour market. I claim that anyone who says such a thing can either not read meaningfully or does not understand economic contexts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the facts: In the meantime, 5 billion euros have been paid for short work – the most expensive instrument in the fight against crises. The short work has been extended and is now going into the new year in a next phase, because of course the pandemic crisis is far from over. There is, of course, the work foundation, active labour market policy: 700 million euros made available for the qualification of people without employment. There is a one-time increase in unemployment benefit, also a lot in the area of classical labour market policy, but – that is absolutely important to me – if you want to understand economic contexts, you already have to know that, of course, it is not just about giving the AMS as much money as possible to fight unemployment, but you have to boost the economy, and that is much more decisive. The investment premium is very important in this context. Within a short time, 2 billion euros were requested, which will generate a total of 20 billion euros of investment – often also from the point of view of climate neutrality. This is economic acceleration, which also creates jobs. Another example is the Community Investment Act: 1 billion euros for the municipalities so that the municipalities can maintain their investments. I have recently spoken to 20 mayors from my constituency, because there are always discussions about whether these funds are being collected or not: Of course they're being picked up! I didn't hear any mayor in my constituency saying: I'm not getting the money! – Some are still waiting because the projects will only happen in the future. This instrument also works, and it creates jobs again, because of course it stimulates the economy, and that is, I think, in times like this enormously necessary. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] To the non-profit sector – because it is also a concern to me personally –: There are at least 250 000 people employed in this sector, and there too we have tied up the programmes. The organizations pick up the funds and, of course, secure and create jobs. The list could be continued for a very long time: Quick-cost grant, there is now a revenue replacement for the gastronomy and the hotel industry and much more. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Finance for this – because I am always in touch – which has been launched in the shortest time on programmes. That's really remarkable. There were also many night shifts. For that it needs, I think, even a great thank you. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weratschig.]] Finally, I would like to address a question which is very often raised at the moment: Can we afford what we do? – The fact is, we will have to refinance 28 billion euros this year in the budget implementation, and in the 2021 budget planning it will be 22.6 billion euros again. I would like to answer this question with a clear yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Yes, thank God, we can afford that. Why? – There are three reasons for this: The first reason is that we have just managed well in recent years. For the first time in 2019, we had a general government surplus for many, many years. The second essential reason is that we thank God for a low level of interest rates, which is also to be said honestly. Interestingly, it is true that even in medium-term financial planning, interest costs will fall despite new debts; this is, of course, a very important aspect. The third essential reason is, of course, that we have to return to a growth path after the pandemic. If we have a healthy growth again, we also have a strong economic substance. The programmes are important, and what we need now is optimism for the future, for the time when we have survived the health crisis. The basics of this are there. I can invite everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14651	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14675	Madam President. Dear members of the government – the Minister of Finance is not taking part in his budget debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers in front of TV screens! Who will receive and finance fire and rescue, hospitals, vocational schools, youth welfare facilities? Who builds streets, hiking trails, schools, kindergartens, leisure facilities, sports facilities, nursing facilities, playgrounds and parking facilities? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Who gets schools, kindergartens, hoards, childcare facilities, school afternoon care? Who builds and receives wastewater treatment and water supply? Who shapes the sporty, social and cultural life in our country? Who is investing locally and thus creating jobs for the regional economy and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises? – They are the communities and cities in our Republic. The question that we unfortunately have to ask ourselves is: How long?, because just as people in unemployment, entrepreneurs, EPCs, cultural creators and so on suffer from corona measures, so do the communities and cities. Today, the municipalities and cities are missing 2 billion euros due to a wide range of government measures. Due to the new lockdown, it can be assumed that 2 billion euros will also be missing for all 2 095 municipalities in Austria in 2021. The government is actually not ready to help and remedy, even though the colleague has just spoken about the Community investment law. [[call to the FPÖ.]] What we are experiencing is that the government says to these 4 billion euros: Okay, we know, 2020 and 2021 you miss 4 billion euros, but 1 billion euros you get from us! But you only get it if you spend one billion euros on your own. That means you need 5 billion euros so that at the end of the day you have 4 billion euros missing. To see that this can't go out, I don't think you need to be a big mathematical genius. The communities – we are experiencing it right now; Mr Schellhorn said it earlier on about the farms, but it is also true of the communities – especially budgets – and the communities experience that they are equally unable to make their budgets balanced, because they simply lack liquidity. Just a brief explanation, especially in the direction of ÖVP, there are some mayors – you know what I'm talking about – sitting there, how a community designed a budget: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] First of all, there is the ordinary household. There is everything inside, which is standard services, so all that concerns kindergarten, school, community officials, snow clearing, public lighting and so on and so on. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Then a line is made, and if something remains, then it comes into the extraordinary household, and there is an investment. The problem is, and this is what many communities are experiencing: If they now make a break in the ordinary household, nothing remains, there is nothing more to invest. This is the problem, and you know for yourselves that it is. Not only that there is no such funding – you can't even budget it! I want to show this by an example – and you know that in reality, your mayors tell me yes, they just say: We must not tell ours, but please continue because we know that there is this problem! –: Let us assume that a community with the population of 2 500 – which is actually the average of the communities in Austria, the majority of the communities no longer have residents – will theoretically receive 250 000 euros, but only if it itself spends 250 000 euros. In other words, it has to budget 500 000 euros in the extraordinary budget, but it has no coverage because it gets only 250 000 euros. That is, it does not actually bring the budget together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Finally, therefore, our proposal and the very urgent request, because it concerns social life in our Republic: Pays out this 1 billion euro immediately to ensure liquidity in the communities so that the budgets are secured, and together we are working out a new municipal investment law for 2021! - Thank you. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Smoke]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14757	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e14778	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers and Seers! If we – and we have discussed it in the last Committee on Budgets – take the federal financial statements in 2019, then we see that this is extremely positive and, above all, much better than estimated. The net result as a measure of economic efficiency and the net financial balance as a measure of the federal's ability to pay is quite positive. The reason for this is the good economic environment this year, where there has also been an increase in employment and economic growth and debt has fallen. But this view into the past also shows us that we find this budget a good starting point for the budget discussed here today 2021. The objectives of the 2021 budget are, above all, to support the health system, to save jobs and to preserve the economic location and thus prosperity. For this, ladies and gentlemen, we stand as a People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what is incomprehensible to me at this difficult time of the corona pandemic is how the opposition operates here. Instead of constructive contributions, it is in principle only countered, there are false statements and envy debates are startled, measures are misrepresented, free according to the motto: Something's already going to hang up. This has influenced “former” American President Donald Trump under the name Trumpism. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I say to you: In retrospect, everyone knows everything better. But you should start thinking about it now! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] Instead of always criticizing, you could make a constructive contribution so that we can work together for our Austria. Now cohesion is in demand, ladies and gentlemen, and not to be divided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Everyone and everyone out there can make a contribution. With the measures of the Federal Government and the already known measures – regular hand washing, distance and masking – we can protect our health system from a collapse. [[Abg. Belakovich:... Lockdown!]] Let us stay together in this difficult time! Let's protect each other! Austria has already experienced a lot, and together we are also mastering this crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can still make an amendment by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, colleagues in the budget accompanying law as amended by the Committee's report, 440 of the supplements, which I can explain in the key points. Firstly, the implementation of the EU Control Regulation, secondly, the financing of the Ages, the Agency for Health and Food Safety, for the coming years, and thirdly, a Federal Office for Consumer Health. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[12:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16090	The amendment was distributed to all Members and explained in the broad guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Hermann Brückl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16114	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Charles Dickens once said: In the small world in which our children live, there is nothing that is so clearly recognized and felt by them as injustice. – High House, it is unfair and our children do not understand that they are already sent to social isolation, contrary to all expert opinions. If they can't see their friends at least in school, they don't understand. If their hunger for knowledge is not satisfied, they do not understand. High house! As a country of Austria, we claim to have one of the best and most reliable education systems in this world. But this also means taking money in the hands and remembering the need and the importance of an education system. The Minister of Finance just lost three sentences in his budget speech on the educational budget to our schools four weeks ago. That's unfair! It is unfair, Minister of Finance, that you have not lost a word about the fact that expenditure on classical integration agents in school is constantly increasing, such as teaching language, value education and conflict resolution. There was no word from you that through the constant school-on-school-to-school, through the ongoing switch from presence-learning to distance-learning and back not only uncertainty and confusion arise, but that due to these measures, with these school closures, we create above all a whole generation of children who have to start up with educational disadvantages. The government, no, not the government, but German chancellors Shortly alone ensure that an entire corona generation is created. This is unfair, High House! In the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, it was not heard a word about how to use the lockdown losers in budgetary terms, not a word about what resources are being provided to take measures that keep at least as little as possible the result of the lockdown of schools – even that is unfair. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The use of monetary resources is needed to keep educational residues and loss of education as far as possible. It takes care of the summer schools, the High House, for all the students who want to take advantage of them, also to pick up residues that have already arisen in the last months, in the last two semesters. It takes a budget for special support to recover the time lost by Lockdowns. High house! A budget needs investment in education because investment in education is investment in the future of our youth because investment in education Our children create a basis for a full life and because investment in education also provides economic growth. The President of the Court of Auditors said earlier in her speech: The government must deliver. - Yes, the government would have to deliver. What this Federal Government has been providing for months are fear, fear and panic! Delivery would have to be confident, hope, advocacy and courage. But she doesn't.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16171	Next speaker: Mr Johann Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16196	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and at home! Today, we are also dealing with the ÖBB Framework Plan for the years 2021 to 2021 – Mrs. Geessler and some colleagues have already mentioned it. In this time frame, investments amounting to 17.5 billion euros are planned. Of course, this is a special challenge, both for the current 2021 budget and for the forthcoming ones. I would particularly like to outline the effects on rural areas. The basis of this framework is, by the way, the decided government programme. This government programme has shown that additional measures are provided for in this framework plan, which total costs of EUR 8 billion. This means high investment in a modern rail network. We invest an average of 329 euros per capita per year in the rail network. In Germany, it is only 188 euros, so we invest 131 euros more than Germany. This means that we are attracting the rails in all the federal states. What are the priorities for rural areas? – On the one hand, it is the development of the track and the overall attraction of the train. In my home country Upper Austria these are the Pyrnbahnbahn, Salzkammergutbahn, Hausruckbahn, Mühlkreis- und Summerauerbahn. A second important focus is the electrification of railway lines. There is a particularly interesting aspect that the electrification of some 500 kilometres in Austria is planned by 2030. The aim is to achieve the complete decarbonisation of rail transport both on the road and on the vehicle side. In Upper Austria, the Mattigtalbahn, the Innkreisbahn, the Donauuferbahn and the Almtalbahn are affected. One very important point is the modernisation of railway stations. Some aspects of this: accessible access, expansion of service diversity, digital customer information systems and the expansion of railway stations to mobility hubs. – These are very, very important priorities. As a pendler, I would like to quote: An extension of the park-and-ride spaces in Upper Austria, with a total of 2 400 parking spaces, is planned by 2026. As I said, this is a very important measure for the commuters. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This framework programme will make rail transport much more attractive, will make an important contribution to climate neutrality, will strengthen economic activity, and it is part of the fight for every job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16250	Mrs Mag. Karin Greiner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16274	I note that the Minister of Finance prefers not to attend this debate. Shame! Ladies and gentlemen! We are in the largest economic crisis in the Second Republic. Since today we are in the second lockdown and – we have already heard it – the consequences of this lockdown are not included in the budget. What do we need in this crisis? Although we are discussing a budget which is already a real estate, it is an essential question: What does it need in this crisis? – First and foremost, an active labour market policy is needed. This has been the case for a long time, but in recent years there have been drastic and successive cuts. If we know that there are only as much active means for 2021 as for 2017, this is very amazing given the dramatic rise in unemployment. What else does it need? – It needs a security of low incomes. What does the Federal Government do? – The Federal Government waives a tax reform and does nothing to secure smaller incomes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] – We heard it in the budget hearing, confirmed by experts, you also need to know Just when you make funds flow into the lower income segments, they flow directly into consumption. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger]] That is exactly what we would need now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lindinger.]] But what does the government do? – In the case of long-term insured persons who have 45 years of contributions, you don’t need to be so generous as to take something away! – You can also sell it as a success if you take 300 euros away from a family and say: We'll give you 60 euros. How does it work out in the sum of success? – Mr Colleague! Please, my colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] It is also essential to force public investment. My previous speaker, Kollross, said: These investments are made in the communities, and you all know that we all know that the communities have to face a lot of losses – less income, bitter losses in municipal taxes, more than 2 billion euros for this year. Now the Minister of Finance in the Committee says, well, we have a billion euros from the Community Investment Act. Minister of State in absenteeism! 2.5 billion euros minus, 1 billion euros you get. How's that going? What's the point? [[by alternate lifting and lowering of the hands representing different heights]] The Federal Government has the task of compensating for these loss of revenue, but it does not fulfil this task accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you want the quality - - – – you can shake the head as you want, I'm talking about facts. [[Abg. Lindinger shakes the head]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] Do you want social services to get worse in the communities? Do you want the care facilities to no longer be able to deliver this quality? The communities now need our active support, as communities invest effectively, quickly and sustainablely. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Lindinger.]] They would have the opportunity to do so in the budget, but unfortunately the Federal Government is setting wrong priorities. It does not apply to the unemployed, it does not include them in the less-favoured regions of the Community. Income and it unfortunately does not put it with the communities – this is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16383	Mr Lukas Brandweiner. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16407	Mr President, let me also say: I'm glad you're healthy and fit among us again! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! My colleague Hans Singer has already said a lot about the ÖBB Framework Plan. I can also do a lot about this: With 17.5 billion euros, it is by far the largest budget that we have ever decided to expand the rail network; compared with this, it was significantly less in the last five-year plan with 13.9 billion euros. This also means that a total of 3 billion euros will be invested annually from 2021, i.e. from next year. Now these investments are important and correct. They secure and create 15 000 jobs. My colleague has also made a comparison with Germany, where only half of the investment is made if you calculate it per capita and per year. I think that can be seen. I would also like to highlight positively the attraction of the regional railways. These include modern customer information systems, of course also modern stops and railway stations, route attractions, but also safety at railway crossings and crossings – there have already been too many horror reports of major accidents. One of the objectives in the fight against the climate crisis is, of course, the transfer of goods to the rails, which must continue to drive. However, progress must also be made with the electrification offensive. I am particularly pleased that some projects will also be implemented in my home country of Lower Austria. I mention here the electrification of the Krems-Sent Pölten route. I'm a Waldviertler However, MEPs would also like to point out – and I am really delighted to see this – the planning of the two-track extension between Absdorf-Hippersdorf and Sigmundsherberg and of course also the direct connection to the district capital Horn. This is very important, and these are positive signals for the Franz-Josefs train, for the Waldviertel. I would also like to thank all the political leaders who have been fighting in recent years, starting with the mayors, the fellow Members and our Transport Councillor Ludwig Schleritzko. My request: Let us work together on improvements! And my request to you, Mrs Minister, is that you continue to support us. Ladies and gentlemen! With the 2021 to 2026 framework plan, we are taking the necessary steps for a modern and future-fitted railway network, and that is why I also ask you for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16447	The next speaker is Mr Christian Hafenecker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16469	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs. Federal Minister! I've listened carefully to you before, when you said that the budget was an achievement, especially in the transport sector, it would be a climate budget and it would be investments which, finally, should also disband the corona crisis, so to speak, economically. Mrs Bundesminister, that was the first shame you have announced to us today, because it is a budget, especially the framework plan, which will only be effective in 2022. That means it's still a full year in the middle of it before it takes some time. Mrs Bundesminister, you have two problems: The first problem is that the economy that you want to support will be broken down until then, and the second problem is that I look over to the ÖVP, that you will not be a minister until then. [[Interference by Federal Minister Geessler.]] That is, this whole program that you have now painted and explained, you will not implement at the end of the day. If you look more closely at the framework plan, you can also see what kind of label is underlying it, because in principle it is the framework that President Hofer, who is behind me, has already drawn up. In fact, they only garnished him with a few bicycle parking spaces, but essentially it was then again. By the way, I also ask myself the question, Mrs Federal Minister, how you want to implement this framework plan. How does that work? If I look at your approach on the 1-2-3 ticket, I conclude that the framework plan to be taken in 2022 will not yet be completed in 2030. So if you continue to show this pace, I see for you, Mrs. Federal Minister – and that will be your fate –, unfortunately, God's black. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even otherwise, we have only chaos in the area of the railway. Mrs Federal Minister, take a look at the details of what's going on at the train: There are changes in the clocks, making regional railways unusable on the other side. The station buildings are closed and thus “secured” – under quotation marks – that the commuters can only stand in the rain anymore and that they do not even find a toilet. Mrs. Federal Minister, this is your railway policy? That's the big show you pull off to move people to train? They do quite the opposite. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have been one of the members of the government who have been greatly praised in advance, because of your alleged expertise, but I am already wondering: What happened to your ambitions in the meantime? You have managed to deliver, in your previous term of office, all two government documents – two pieces! Mrs Bundesminister, this is even less constructive than what Federal Minister Blümel is presenting. From the Ministry of Transport, to bring this large resort so little, and that with the ambitions you have previously told us that you have them, that is not understandable to me and actually rather a chuzpe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You said earlier: Climate protection now! – Yes, Mrs Federal Minister, I am right in giving you that, but then explain to me why you are destroying good, already present programmes by then Minister Hofer. It is the local transport billions already available that you would only need more to implement, then you could have started immediately with climate protection. What do you have? You made it? – You filed it, you made the billions somewhere in the budget undetectable – it is no longer available. You know, I've already put one on you: You don't want to protect the climate at all, but what you want is to gain time so that any bicycle lobbyists can write sintrous concepts for you again. That's the reason. It's not about the environment, it's about the posts you want to occupy in the ministry. In the Ministry of Transport there are many areas, Mrs. Federal Minister, in which you have failed. I can still remember how we were beaten in the Federal Government because we did not implement the right-wing assistant two days after a tragic accident. I can remember Mrs Vassilakou standing in the Ministry of Transport and almost terrorizing her that this must happen immediately. I can remember that we have made sure that everything at EU level needs to be immediately set in motion to bring about a harmonisation of the technical challenges. So far, you haven't brought all this to the finish. Mrs. Federal Minister, how does the Federal Road Development Plan look? - It's not finished until today. While you are considering new cycle paths and installing bicycle parking on railway stations, you have not yet presented anything about them as you continue with the motorways and highways. You too, unfortunately, have failed God. Two examples: S 34, B 334. Mrs Bundesminister, you are totally abandoning the counterparts in the rural area, which depend on the car. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are you doing instead? – You operate lupen-free driver bashing, you're fading over a CO2 tax, you want to afford the diesel, which primarily affects agriculture and logistics, and at the end of the day the consumer will pay the token for it. You have also completely changed the traffic law. What has been important to us at the time – that a German duty for taxi drivers comes – is also what you have eroded. Obviously, you have very different interests. In principle, you primarily promote those people who use their own drivers and operate social dumping. So, too, we are far away from left-wing politics, which you always pretend to make, Mrs Federal Minister. You've, unfortunately, failed. Now I have needed the word very, very often, to fail, and finally I would like to give an example which really makes this total failure very clear. Mrs. Federal Minister, 450 million euros, does the number tell you something? - That was the AUA deal. If you look at how the AUA deal went out today, and if we assume that there will or will have to be a second aid package to save the AUA, you can only say that it would have been done if at least you had planned some kind of state intervention. That was, so to speak, the masterpiece of you and finance minister Blümel – congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16565	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Selma Yildirim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16589	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, the share of public servants in the working population is 15.9 percent. In international comparison among the Western industrialized countries, we are in the back of the middle. For comparison: In the Scandinavian countries, the share is 30 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I mention this in order to underline how professionally our administration and our courts work in such difficult times, especially in the crisis despite decades of lack of human and financial resources. – Thank you for that! However, this cavalry is in the crisis. Think of the conditions under which medical staff, teachers, policemen must work at the moment! There is a lack of financial and human resources everywhere in order to be able to fulfil the legal mandate well. Part of the public services are also provided by court interpreters. They also make an important contribution before court or before administrative authorities to ensure that people come to their right. Correct and competent translations can not only decide on guilt and innocence, but rather a competent and correct translation in many procedures is essential in order to be able to make just decisions. The Court of First Instance strongly calls for the increase in tariffs for translation work. Why this? – Since 13 years, i.e. since 2007, tariffs have not been increased, there has not even been an inflation adjustment, so basically this is a minus business for this professional group. Little surprisingly, the number of judicially certified interpreters has fallen by about half to around 730 in the last 14 years. The average age is rising and is currently about 60 years old. This, ladies and gentlemen, has a dramatic impact on the rule of law: Courts, police, asylum authorities must improvise and often resort to non-certified interpreters, and sometimes suffer quality. While in the 2021 budget, at least one first step has been taken for the experts, the fees for the psychiatric experts have been increased, the interpreters are once again comforted for the future. However, a tariff adjustment is long overdue, so I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, I thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:18]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16737	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Next word may be spoken. Gerald Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16764	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Entering just a comment on Clubobfrau Maurer, which has just come back in: In fact, we cannot measure anyone, just you, Mrs Maurer. They have shown the whole Republic the Stinkefinger. I think you're really the last one that should and should be able to make any moral demands in our direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the 50 billion euros also addressed by Klubobmann Wöginger today: It is good and right that you help, but the aid must be targeted, they must be socially fair, they must not exclude anyone and should not prefer anyone. That's what I imagine with a quick help. What does the fact check look like in reality? – I have to tell you, I need half an hour here to actually go through the fact-finding check, but I do it in the quick procedure. I'll start with my private owners. Private owners have been disadvantaged since the onset of the epidemic. There are, of course, further improvements due to massive political pressure. But the fact is, there's a benchmark. There's no question about the rural private owners I love every cent. I'm a rural representative and I don't envy anyone. However, this benchmark would also have to apply to private owners non-agricultural areas. How's this been since the beginning? – At the end of March, there is already the first regulation that farmers will be compensated through the hardness fund. At that time, no non-agricultural private operator is mentioned. You must not forget: There are 40 000 private entrepreneurs who have 300,000 guest beds. This is the majority of tourist companies in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ: He's right!]] It was a long struggle on our part until the private room tenants were taken into account in the fund at the end of April. It took until mid-June – and for this we, and especially I, made a contribution – that the private rental companies in the Hardfall Fund were taken into account – a long fight. [[Abg. Hörl: I was there too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] In fact, it should have been around the ministry in the meantime that there are private tenants. Again: 40 000 private tenants with 300,000 guest beds. How's that going? – Now we are talking about the loss of sales. What's going on? – Again the private owners do not occur and again it also needs the help of the media who observe: [[placing an enlarged copy of a newspaper article entitled ‘FPÖ: ‘Two classes in tourism’’ on the speaker’s desk]] There is a two-class society. [[Call: That must not be true]] There are the commercial firms, the private owners non-agricultural and on the other hand the large number of private tenants who have also been forgotten in the sales replacement. That has now been corrected thanks to God – but is this necessary, the permanent beggar and then also the accusation in our direction, we would only be nagging? There we had to fight and it needed the help of the media. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It goes further with small businesses. The following example has not yet been corrected [[the speaker makes a table with a text and the heading ‘Fixe grant – application does not meet the criteria supported’ to the speaker’s seat]] A landlord of four apartments with 28 beds is considered a commercial establishment, is registered, pays the taxes on time, is a mandatory member of the Chamber of Commerce and also pays the taxes in the Tourism Association. However, there is no fixed-cost grant for these companies – with the argument that these companies are tax-denominated according to rental and lease. Only all of those establishments are subject to compensation as set out in the Regulation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] These are, in turn, only those who fall under § 21 Agriculture and Forestry, § 22 Self-employed labour and § 23 Commercials. You have forgotten § 28 – I say you have forgotten it – on all those commercial companies that are charged according to rental and lease, but are commercial companies. These little ones are forgotten again and again. I do not understand that the small ones – from the private tenants to the small businesses – will be forgotten by this government over and over again. There's a spray: The little ones stay on the track, you have to rejuvenate it, and the big ones are naturally served. Now another word about the epidemic law. [[The speaker places a table with a text and the title “So look out the “quick compensations” promised by the government!” on the speaker’s desk.]] [[Abg. Loacker: That's smaller than it was at the top!]] You know, from the very beginning, it was one of our demands to compensate for all those establishments which were officially closed in accordance with a regulation of the District Headships, in accordance with an existing law – at least for the period until this regulation was repealed. This was usually the case at the end of March, so at least for these 16 days you should have paid compensation. What's the state of things? – Until we get into this, it has become July. April, May, June, July – four months have passed until the Ministry has adopted a regulation indicating how this loss of compensation can be calculated. Only then has the decree come, an Excel regulation, that is a letter, and now you tell the companies, it takes so long. Reference to Tyrol: There are 20 000 establishments who have claimed compensation. The rest remain 4,000 because in Tyrol last week it was decided that the gastronomy would not receive compensation. That's how this thing looks. We need to improve permanently. Don't wonder, therefore, that we are not satisfied with the implementation of these assistance measures and, above all, cannot accept one thing: that the little ones stay on the track permanently.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16887	Mr deputies, you do not want to make a request? In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Meri Disoskizu word reported. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16922	I would like to make a real correction, Mr President. Mr Hauser has just said that the green clubwoman Sigi Maurer has shown the whole Republic the instincts. [[Abg. Belakovich:... the voters!]] - That's not right. I'm actually correcting: Klubobfrau Maurer has shown her middle finger to hate posters who threaten her physical violence and overwhelm her with rape threats.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16977	Ms Leonore Geessler spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e16999	We will have enough time on Thursday to discuss in detail the many initiatives in the transport sector, also in the climate protection sector and in many other areas, but I might want to take one aspect very briefly: How many of you will have noticed is a lot of break between a 2018 to 2023 framework plan and a 2021 to 2021 framework – this does not come from about. If I may say something else to you: On 24.3.2020, I signed the grant agreement, which makes this framework 2018 to 2023 operational. So maybe that's the difference: I do not build air locks, but actually rails and railway stations – very concrete.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17052	Next speaker: Dr. Christoph Matznetter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17077	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Again a new episode of the popular series “Pleiten-, Pech- und Pannendienst”, the main actor Gernot Blümel has only returned a few seconds ago. That doesn't surprise me. The Federal Chancellor has even preferred not to participate. I understand, according to those conditions we had already in spring. Mr Krainer rightly pointed out that a decision on the budget of EUR 102 000 instead of EUR 102 billion would have been taken here, he would not have offered the helping hands after the second reading and showed you the way out to improve the overnight – and now our main actor in the “Pleate, Paid and Panning Service” is once again delivering a budget whose figures have nothing to do with reality. The assistance we have offered – back-reference, rework, take into account the next lockdown – will be absolved. No, on the first day of the hard lockdown, 183 plus 20 – no, the Federal Chancellor has stayed away – plus staff here to discuss a budget that is macular. What are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: No perception...!]] At the same time, the same government groups that are going through are not ready to show care in their actions. At the same time, for some of the sectors, there are 80 percent sales compensation without accounting for short-time work – great for those affected and perhaps for one month a little compensation for the fact that you have forgotten to pay the bulk for the lockdown one in spring. In fact, it was only EUR 700 million from EUR 2 billion, Mr Schwarz, and EUR 252 million from fixed costs instead of billion. You didn't compensate them, and now you're trying to lure a part with 80 percent. That's where it happens again: The gambling courts – as I said earlier – in my youth, which we have long banned in Vienna, are replaced by 80 percent of sales, Mr. Finanzminister?- Oh, my God! [[Call:No]] The suppliers for the Christmas markets, which will have zero sales, but look through their fingers. You just can't do it, ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] There are two ways: Step back and see that others are coming, or try to have a learning curve that is a little steeper than before – a bit! Try to submit something next time that fits! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Please, Mr Blümel, I hope you will manage this sooner or later, because if you continue to do so for five years now, we will no longer have to decide on budgets: Is still wringing what's inside; let's write in a few zeros or not! – I am afraid that the series “Plide, pitch and pan service” will continue for a while, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17157	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if a part-session is wanted. - That's not the case either. First of all, the present referral request must be voted on. On item 1 there is a referral request from Mr Kai Jan Krainervor. I therefore leave it to the vote to refer the draft budget accompanying law 2021 back to the Committee on Budgets in 440. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[Abg. Matznetter: Helping hands not accepted!]] [[Abg. Krainer:... Error!]] We now come to the votes separately in accordance with the committee's request. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft budget accompanying law 2021 in 440 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Obernosterer, Mr Mag. Dr Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues, an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues and an amendment tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for the excellent work he has done. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Kickl. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since two of the above-mentioned supplementary or amendment amendments contain constitutional provisions, I first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the amendment of the title. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of an acceptable sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall vote separately on Articles 10 to 15 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Double farmers, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning Article 16. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this amendment to give a sign. – This is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment concerning Article 16. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The amendment is therefore rejected. We shall vote separately on Rule 16 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is in favour of it, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Double farmers, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment relating to Article 17. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this amendment to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Rule 17. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall vote separately on Rule 17 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is in favour of it, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Double farmers, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning Article 18. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join this amendment to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Article 18. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 18 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is in favour of it, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Double farmers, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of Articles 19 to 23. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on this article in its version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Double farmers, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning Articles 24 to 26. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately proceed to a separate vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall vote separately on Rule 27 to 30, as amended by the Committee's report. Those Members of the House who are in favour of this, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This too is largely accepted. Deputies Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning Article 31. I would like to ask for a positive sign if I agree. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall then proceed to a separate vote on Rule 32 as amended by the Committee's report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 34. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and received as part of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'A budget of broken promises'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues, on the increase in the net rate of replacement for unemployment benefit (COVID-19). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on 'Austrian voucher'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on the proposal for an overall approach to economic aid. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, colleagues, on 'necessary data transparency and control of the effectiveness of covid measures to protect the population'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Selma Yildirim, colleagues on ‘the long-overdue higher remuneration of the court dolmetschers’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft COVID-19 storage law, title and receipt in 441 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal accounts for the year 2019 in 443 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law, which approves the justification of expropriations by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location, together with the title and entry into 343 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law, which approves the justification of prejudices by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology, together with the title and entry into 447 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of the report on the ÖBB Framework Plan 2021-2026, III-189 of the Supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of its adoption, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rehabilitation of the Parliamentary Building, including the title and entry into 442 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on the Special Funding of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, together with the title and receipt in 445 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign in this regard. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft law concerning a federal law establishing a federal law on Austrian contributions to international financial institutions and amending the Federal Treasury Code, including the title and receipt in 410 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:43:47]] 10. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (381 and 381 of the report)._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which adopts the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024 – BFRG 2021-2024 (448 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (380, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Proposal for the Year 2021 (Federal Finance Act 2021 – BFG 2021) and Investments (449 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17394	We shall now proceed to items 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery UG 17: Public service and sport
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17461	The first is Mrs Petra Bayr's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17487	The whole world is currently facing major challenges, and I dare to say that Austria is doing this in particular, because the way of: We have come through the crisis relatively well!, to: We have the highest number of new infections worldwide!, was a fairly short way. I would say that this cut-off from the Austrian Federal Government was rather a rather fatal one, which led us to have the largest economic crisis in the Second Republic, the highest unemployment rates, a forecast GDP drop of 7.7 percent, the loss of education of young people and the cementing of traditional gender roles. There are a lot of missed opportunities in this, because one could have taken advantage of the crisis to launch a turnaround in many policy areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The sustainable development goals, the Sustainable Development Goals, decided by the UN in 2015 to set targets by 2030 to leave no one behind, to identify challenges that we face in their social, environmental and economic dimension, and to make systematic changes, i.e. changes in the system, including in the economic system. In any case, the SDGs are not there to serve as a support logo for anything – for example, for brochures by companies or governments in which you are shown how good you are not – but the SDGs are there to really show us ways out of a crisis – and not to say that we are already so good, we are doing everything quite brilliant anyway. If all of us had already solved the problems before us, then we would not need them here, then we could all go home now and would not have to discuss the next four days. The budget service has issued an SDG atlas this year. I think this is very, very great, because it really also offers a data base from which we can discuss. The Court of Auditors has a report, has issued recommendations on how another work could work, because we will not meet the complex challenges of the future with our silo thinking – the Ministry of Ministry, the Committee on Committee. We will also have to go other ways in Parliament in order to be able to stand up to this real future in view of this interconnectivity of challenges. What I would like to argue for is simply that here in Parliament we really take the SDGs seriously, even trying to use new working methods if we want to solve problems not to have a navel look but to look beyond the edge of the plate. Perhaps this will also allow us as Parliament to live a much more self-determined parliamentaryism. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17534	It is now possible to speak. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17558	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear People's Lawyers! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to speak today about the chapters of the Supreme Court and the Federal Chancellor's Office, and I would like to say a sentence on this because my previous speaker has just referred to a world economic system. The global market economy has many advantages, but especially in a crisis one sees what it is like to get scarce goods only from certain countries. I would therefore like to say that I am very, very grateful that the Federal Chancellor and the entire Federal Government in Europe have made sure that mouth and nose protection masks are naturally produced in Europe in the future and that we are no longer dependent on China in this regard. Thank you very much, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the chapters of Parliament and the Supreme Institutions: As far as Parliament is concerned, there is an increase of 38 million euros in Parliament's budget. Why? – Because it is necessary to continue the process of Parliament renewal and the Covid crisis has slowed down the construction process. We are also creating a more secure area, which is unfortunately also necessary as a result of the increased use of the instrument of the committee of inquiry. What is still important to me in Parliament is that Parliament is a place of meeting, a place of meeting. We are the representatives of the population here, and it is important to me that this arc always fit together between the representatives and the representatives and that it will never be broken. I therefore support the measures put forward by President Sobotka in the direction of more political education and also the extension of the information provision for the population. As regards the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court: Thank you for what you have done, even that you continue to do very, very good work with limited resources. I would like to stress, in particular, the Constitutional Court: He has managed not only to deal with the increased requests and complaints he has received in the area of covid and the measures put forward in this respect, but he has made even more decisions this year relative to last year. Thank you very much for that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is here that the German Chancellor's Office and Constitution are dealt with, but allow me to take a short look at the coalition government, which is now underway in Vienna: There was a party that very, very often made certain demands concerning Vienna, such as in the case of non-official city councils. This coalition can now prove whether it will act with non-official councillors or not. Unfortunately, the coalition agreement shows me the opposite. They push it to the Federal Government, making NEOS only the climber of the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you of the NEOS have unfortunately lost completely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen from NEOS, we voted in common for the request to make a mandatory publication of studies funded by taxpayers. There is no single word in the Treaty between NEOS and SPÖ. We wanted the guidelines to be drawn up together, but what does the new Treaty say? – The new Treaty says that SPÖ and NEOS are now on their own and that no one else is allowed to speak in favour of it. What do SPÖ and NEOS do in Vienna when it comes to freedom of information? – They say: We wait for what the federal government is doing! instead of making sure that all Viennans and Viennaers finally get information about what is happening in the Vienna transport companies, what happens at the Vienna cemeterys, what happens at Vienna's residences regarding the award of municipal apartments et cetera. They have set themselves more transparency than a goal. Today you have arrived there that the only new thing is to make much, much old policy of SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17633	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Susanne Prince. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17658	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the subject of the Constitution. This includes the financing of the path of federal legislation and also the constitutional control by the courts of public law, the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court. Money is actually very well invested. We are talking about the centre of our state, the core of our Republic, which celebrated its 75th anniversary this year – a success story, as I mean. The Austrian citizens have formed Austria with social security through a lot of work and willingness to do so. This was the performance of citizens who have acted with great commitment in their own responsibility, who have founded companies, created jobs, and done more and more than the necessary things that families have created, put children into the world, raised them to be performance-ready people, taught them that education is the most important thing that can achieve everything, including overcoming social barriers. The performance of parents who have raised their children for self-responsibility, who have taught them that they are best placed to rely on themselves and their ability and not on the state, was the recipe of the success model Austria. In doing so, the people were accompanied by a federal constitution, which enabled this to happen: one that protected citizens from state attacks and made them carriers of comprehensive constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights, which brought them personal, social and economic freedom. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Constitution also provides for fundamental rights intervention. There is a scope for the simple legislator to design, but the Constitution provides that these interventions must be concrete through the law. They must, with sufficient determination, clearly define why these interventions are necessary and under what conditions they are taking place. Interventions must be subject to a strict proportionality test, an objective justification test, and the interventions must always be limited to the most necessary time, personal and material, which must be examined daily. In other words, the measures must be based on concrete, valid data, but must also be presented. It is not enough to announce and claim the need to intervene in press conferences. That is, we are removed from these constitutional requirements in the corona year light years, so to speak. A minister responsible for the Constitution, who is not present now, should have called several times. Laws and rights have been created here in Parliament and not to be announced in press conferences. These laws, for example, create regulations in the Ministry of Health, but must be developed and concrete within the legal framework. If I look at the new COVID-19 emergency regulation, which is the reason for the second lockdown, I can only laugh at it, because it is simply unconstitutional because of its flat-rateness and non-comprehensible reasoning. You can also stop – this is addressed to the representatives of the government parties – people, critical citizens or physicians who are questioning the government line, always for the spread of the infectious disease or the need to make the supposedly necessary second lockdown responsible! People who feel that even in times of an infectious disease one has to go to school that children have to go, that one also lives there family, embraces grandparents and children, are not a coronal or annoyed, but they are responsible citizens who may not only be suitable as obedient subjects. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] So far, however, this has always been a quality feature, and I still see it like that. Also, in all the fear and hysteria that you create here regarding an infectious disease, do not forget other dangers that will destroy our society and our success model Austria in the long term. In the spring of 2020, in an unprecedented derailment, the Minister of the Interior called citizens who perhaps did not hold the necessary distance at the foothills, as a hazard, a “life-threatening person”. He has lost sight of the true dangers of our society, and one of these dangers was therefore able to commit a horrendous attack on the 2nd of November. I therefore make two requests for the protection of our Constitution and the Republic. The first application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:59]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17890	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are under negotiation. David Stögmüller is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17917	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear People's Lawyers! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! I don't think I have to say anything to the previous speaker and her requests; that's hard-wearing! But what is this point about? – It is about transparency, and transparency is an important part of a functioning democracy. That is why I am particularly pleased today to talk about two institutions: the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors. I would like to start with the Court of Auditors, because the Court of Auditors controls transparently the use of state resources for enforcement and for state operations. This examination activity is of enormous importance, which helps us to bring transparency into the system, but also – and this is important – to show improvements and criticism, where there are problems in this system. For this important work, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you and to the entire Court of Auditors, your employees. [[in the direction of President of the Court of Auditors Kraker]] Thank you for that! On the other hand, the public prosecutorate controls the administration in a way that helps affected citizens to enforce their rights. It also points to abuses in particular with regard to the administration. Here too, my thanks to the employees of the People's Procuratorate. The fact that these institutions are important to us is also evident in the budgeting of these bodies. In the same way, there are also medium-term increases for both bodies in 2021. I think that's right and important. How often it can be and is also often: Of course, it could be something more and more, it could be more and more demanded. But I believe that this budget can also be seen to be more ready. That's great, too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In particular at the public prosecutor's office, you have to see the budget for this year in conjunction with the 2021 budget. This made it possible to create 11 new planning sites. As we were able to discuss in the Committee on Budgets, the occupation of these new posts is largely complete, and this is already bearing the first fruit. Thus, for example, it has already been possible to rework in the important area of the processing of home-sacrifice pensions. This is also an important sign of appreciation for those who had to experience violence and abuse in their homes. Of course, a federal government must not only look into the past, especially in times of crisis where many citizens are able to take advantage of unemployment support or other benefits, such as health insurance. There are many civil servants – who, of course, are a special concern to me as civil servants – who make a valuable contribution, to cope with the Covid crisis. There are now problems, such as the payment of the compensation due to them. These are the problems of the different payments between those who have volunteered and those who have been withdrawn and extended. Such cases abound. These interested parties hope for support and also receive appropriate support from the Public Procuratorate so that they can hopefully enforce their claims. It's also quite clear: If there is more authority, there are automatically more cases where something is not smooth. That is why it is important that there is the public prosecutor's office and that it supports citizens exactly in these cases; for this support, the public prosecutor's office should be well equipped with this equipment. What is clearly seen in the public prosecutor's budget is that it is important for this federal government not to be on the track, but to be able to take advantage of all those involved quickly, competently and free of charge if something is not going as well as it should be. I am very glad that this budget will help both the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors – both – to increase their resources, and we can also make the high priority for control and transparency visible here. So thanks again to the two institutions!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e17985	The next speaker is Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18006	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear People's Lawyers! President of the Court of Auditors! After elections and coalition negotiations, it is a good tradition to look at and criticise the coalition paper when the government – at the federal level, in the state of Vienna in the case – looks at the coalition paper. That is quite legitimate. Mr Gerstl has just done something special that I have not yet experienced. Normally you look at what you have called for in the election campaign yourself, see what the government parties – now – have called for in the election campaign, and then criticize why this is not so. Mr Gerstl referred to two things from the Vienna Coalition Paper: on the one hand, the city councils that do not lead the office. That's what the ÖVP always wants to keep on saving. That's why it's a little scurry. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition, Mr Gerstl, who is the Constitutional Spokesman of the EIA, in particular, should know that there is a need for a constitutional change in order to end this accordingly. The second thing he mentioned is freedom of information. He meant that there was nothing in there about Vienna. It is also the ÖVP, it is in particular the ÖVP, which, although the Federal Chancellor is present, I believe, has once said ten or twelve years, he wants freedom of information, since unfortunately nothing has been done for years. If Mr Gerstl looked closely at the coalition paper, he would see that of course much is in the Vienna Coalition Paper, namely first of all, the deadlines for the obligation to provide information are reduced. It is true that there should be an information-free agent; that is what the EIA does not want in the federal government in this area. And it is also true that conscious, very explicit, proactive studies are published Let's go. So: Of course, Vienna is showing something in this area that has been blocking the ÖVP in the federal government for years. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But we are actually talking about something else here, namely the top organs. It is precisely times like those of the Corona crisis, but also other difficult times that show how important these institutions are: the Parliament, the Federal President, the Volksanwälte, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court. Especially in those times, one should especially appreciate the importance of these institutions, which means, of course, that one has to equip them with the necessary resources so that they can do their work. There is usually always the discussion that both Supreme Courts say that they do not deal with the resources. This is not the case this time for the first time, but in turn there is an absurd debate – that we have to hold this debate every time that we have to talk seriously about it – whether we are making enough money available to the Supreme Court. And this should not be the case in the light of the fact that our constitution and the rule of law should be our concern to all of us. Financial resources are often not enough. This is only about what the Supreme Courts are already doing, and not at all about the question of any additional need, if, for example, one were to establish a quick trial before the Constitutional Court, as is the case in Germany, which would, of course, lead to a more narrow protection of fundamental rights, especially in times of the Corona crisis, with extensive restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. The highest courts will continue to deal with the measures of the government parties, the VfGH has already done so and has already repealed the relevant regulations. I think there will be many other procedures, and this means that the work attack will still rise, as will the work attack at the administrative court, which is already enormous. However, he is – and this is the impressive one – although we usually equip the highest courts with too little budget, inconceivably fast, inconceivable efficiency. A procedure usually takes almost four months, which is an impressive performance. Finally, very briefly to Parliament: We are also negotiating Parliament's budget. This also concerns, among other things, the funds for the legal and legislative service. This one does an excellent job here in the high house. Unfortunately, however, it is not the case as in the German Bundestag that we, as Members of Parliament, can go to the legal and legislative services. In the Committee on Budgets, the President of the National Council meant that this was a measure that he could very well imagine, which would also strengthen the individual Members. I'll take him by the word. It is, of course, also up to us as political groups to agree together that, with a better provision of the legal and legislative services, we can also make our work better and that, as unfortunately in so many cases, we do not make bad laws, which will then be abolished by the Constitutional Court again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18073	Hermann Gahr is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18103	Mr President. Estimated Volksanwälte! Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Despite a difficult environment – and it has already been stressed in advance – it has succeeded in creating a stable and solid budget in the area of the Court of Auditors for 2021, and thus it is possible that the Court of Auditors as the control body of the National Council can fulfil its mandate. In total, the Court of Auditors has a budget of 36,5 million euros for 2021, which means a small increase of 1.4 percent or 500 000 euros. In addition – and the President of the Committee on Budgets has stressed this – there are still deposits of EUR 911 000, which are brought in, because there are fewer audits this year, or they can be rewritten in the budget. A view of the future shows that the Court of Auditors should receive a budget of around 38 million euros by 2024 in order to fulfil its mandate. All in all, it's about staff in the Court of Auditors. In recent years, the workforce, I say, has been kept stable, slightly increased. There are currently 323 planning sites, which means an utilization of 87.5%. The government programme also provides for an extension of competence, and in this context the President has clearly stressed that, in agreement with the Court of Auditors, it obviously also needs the necessary resources to be able to carry out this – I say – extension of audit competence. A focus in the Court of Auditors is, of course, the digitalisation which needs to be specifically, re-designed and forced in all areas, in the near-state field, as there will also be digital reporting in the future in the Court of Auditors. In the years 2021 and 2022, especially in the field of flexible work, laptops are being purchased across the board so that external and digitalised work is possible. A focus of examination in recent years is the so-called citizens' benefit. This is currently also being extended by one year due to the covid crisis. We have been able, after consultation with the President, to learn that the Court of Auditors is already involved in the control of the Covid measures. The hardness fund is examined, the Federal Accounting Financial Statement 2020, and it is expected that first test results will be available at the end of 2021. At the heart of the vote between the Courts of Auditors, the training that works well over the years is also central in coordination with the national accounting authorities, but also at international and European level, in order to avoid duplication and improve efficiency and coordination. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Commission for the success of working out the reports here in a timely and timely manner; I think we are working hard on the Committee. The Court of Auditors will continue to fulfil its mission in the future. The 2021 budget ensures stability, and we are committed to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18149	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Christian Drobits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18178	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, I am able to expressly talk about three of the top institutions on the one hand about the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court and, on the other hand, about the office of President. I want to start with what is very important to me: During the Covid phase, the highest courts were those who created legal certainty through rapid procedures, because parliamentary democracy was eliminated by lack of review procedures. That is why I would like to begin by thanking the staff of the Constitutional Court, but also the Administrative Court. In addition, it is also important to me to say why: The VfGH has managed – and for this also thanks to President Grabenwarter – to continue to comply with the four-month procedure. And he also managed that the 80 procedures on Covid were carried out quickly in Covid times. It has also succeeded in ensuring that complex legislative procedures such as on the reform of social security – with the Social Insurance Organization Act – have been dealt with relatively quickly and well. This makes it clear that the Constitutional Court is well equipped with its 105 planning offices and with a budget of 18.1 million euros in 2021. The President also says that he finds his way out with the staff. Just 100 years of federal constitution and 100 years of constitutional court were celebrated – this shows how important it is to strengthen these institutions. Finally, to the Constitutional Court: The roadshow or hiking exhibition, the project “Constitution makes school” in the federal states will follow or continue 2021. For me, this is an important area to raise awareness of the population, and this is also well accepted. The Administrative Court is well positioned similar to the Constitutional Court, in turn, has the function of serving as a guarantee of legal certainty, and will in future be able to act even better through the digitalisation offensive, especially as a result of the introduction of the electronic court act. I only note critically the decisions to be introduced as a permanent right in the future. Finally, to the office of President: There too we have an unchanged budget. It is 11.5 million euros and includes 85 planning points. I would just like to stress that especially for the little ones, it should not be saved if the large or top organs are not saved. I am very keen on this awareness of costs, and I also give it to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and, of course, to the office of President of the Council. I suggest that in times like this one, it is precisely this cost-consciousness that is being looked at. In concrete terms, I would like to address the mission, namely the representation expenditure and its increase in the budget in the reserves. We will pay close attention to these reserves and also to the 2021 budget. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18225	Mrs Mag. Eva Blimlinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18254	Mr President. Dear Presidents of the Supreme Institutions! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! At the budget committee meetings last week, NEOS always asked the head of the department if the officials probably received premiums, and the undertone on the question has always been influenced by the anti-Tiematist attitude: hopefully not. On the contrary, I can only say: I hope so! The public service has ensured that both at the first lockdown and now on the second of the state works smoothly, even though some see it differently. [[Abg. Loacker: This is their job!]] This is a very central area. This begins, if you want to do so, with the police, the federal army, of course, also in the administration, also in hospitals, wherever the public service is used. It is planned that there will be a further development of service law in the next year and in the following years, not least in order to take account of exactly such a situation as it is now given, by providing rules on what the home office should look like, what digitizations can be used in official traffic. It will be a matter of strengthening itself to accept recruitment of people with disabilities, i.e. developing Settings, that people with disabilities have good opportunities to be included in the federal service to work in the public service. There will be separate developments in service law. There is a larger novelle of service in which all this is to be taken into account. Of course, this also costs some money, and it is good that we invest in the public service in times like this in the state to strengthen the state. In this sense I may perhaps encourage – and my thanks really apply to officials, but of course also to contract staff who are very often too short when mentioning the public service; so these two groups are very central, they maintain our state: Don't let the NEOS take off, but follow my wish and pay any premiums to all those who have done great things during the lockdown, but also in the summer of this year! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Thank you – once again – all these colleagues and colleagues. And as you already know and as I will say again and again in the future, until it is achieved: By the way, I am in favour of renaming the Windisch-Kaserne to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18295	The next speaker is Mr Wolfgang Zanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18319	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Court of Auditors: Yes, it is important that the Court of Auditors can carry out its tasks. This is now ensured, as the President mentioned in the Committee. In addition, it is also necessary to cover planned expansions of testing competence, in particular the examination of companies from 25 percent of the Federal Government's participation. However, this would require more staff, specifically an increase in full employment equivalents from currently 282.5 to around 290. This should be the objective, but at the moment the government does not seem to want to do so, just as it does not want much at present, which is of course the case in a democracy. For example, she does not want people to express their criticism of the measures against the spread of the corona virus, and I am not saying that they are critical of the virus, no, but about the measures – but no matter what, she does everything in a pot anyway. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And then all are labeled as conspiracy theorists, made mouth-dead and even killed in the last consequence – and this is a discussion culture in this country, because the chickens laugh! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only thing to be said is what comes from the controlled proceeds of the Chaos quartet Kurz, Kogler, Anschober and Nehammer. People hate each other by spreading fear. Instead of spreading courage to hope and confidence, you are playing the game with fear – and unfortunately God’s success, for the people in our country are reacting exactly as you are desired, namely, with aggressions against each other. Parents who publicly oppose the psychological health of their children in honest concern that forced tests and masquerades traumatize the children are accused by those who submit to everything as coronal agents. People who don't wear a mask must be happy when they come home without being drugged by their masked fellow human beings, and it's not even questionable whether there may be medical reasons and therefore a liberation behind it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You got it well! This has been a great thing for Mr. Nehammer, by calling everyone a life-threatening person, and this has been achieved by Mr. Kurz by ruling with the fear of people. But that has nothing to do with democracy. This follows an old principle: Divide et impera!, you will know that. This is Mr Machiavelli. [[a panel on which a photo of German chancellor Kurz and a painting that represents Niccolò Machiavelli are depicted side by side, holding in height]] If you look at that, you'll think of it as if short was the reincarnation of Machiavelli. [[Rejoicing among the representatives of the FPÖ and the Agg. Loacker.]] There is already a reason why politics is being done today as it was 500 years ago. - And I'll leave it there now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] [[The speaker puts the panel on the speaker's desk.]] Parts and rule, split the people, label them – one part the braves, the other part the not so Braven – let them go on one another, then you have peace in ruling! That's what you're doing now – and that's objectionable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And your black-greens are still sitting first row of foot-free and claping applause! There can be no greater mourning. You lock up the people, you steal the little ones, the children, the childhood, the young people the youth and the elderly the dignity. Such a characterlessness has not yet met my day of life. It will still take, but time will come: The people are not stupid, and the next elections are determined. The colleague of the ÖVP, who is now talking about me, can take the picture and hang right next to your dolphin.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18428	Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18458	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear People's Lawyers! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to return to the budget now. As chairman of the People's Procuratorate Committee, I would like to speak on the area of Public Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen! Over the course of its 40 years of activity, the Public Prosecutor's Office has become one of the most popular and well-known institutions and is helping citizens in public administration complaints. The report 2019 shows how popular it is, because in 2019 16 641 people turned to the public prosecutor's office. The public prosecutor's duties are very diverse. Most know them only through the audited control of public administration. In addition, there are many other areas, however, I mention only international cooperation in the IOI – there is also Austria's seat state – the Home Victim Pension Act – the requests in this respect are handled by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the control of compliance with the UN Convention on Disabled Persons' Rights and the so-called Opcat mandate, in the course of which the institutions, the withdrawal of freedom or restrictions on freedom are controlled, and preventive measures are imposed. But there are still many new challenges in the future. When we think of the Covid-19 measures, they will certainly bring an increase in the cases where people turn to the public prosecutors. However, there has also been an extension of the areas of responsibility – I have already mentioned the Home Victim Pension Act, which of course has carried out additional tasks – and this has already been taken into account in the 2020 budget, and 2021 will continue to do so. The 2020 personnel plan includes 89 planning posts, which is an increase of 11 planning posts compared to the previous year. We as Parliament, of course, strive to create the best conditions for the public prosecutorship to work well within the meaning of our citizens. If I can now come to the 2021 budget figures, we have estimated a budget of 12.42 million euros. This is by 190 000 euros more than 2020, i.e. an increase of 1.5 percent. The public prosecutorship has set itself the goal of becoming more familiar with the young people and women in the future, because two thirds of the complaints come from men. The People's Procuratorate wants to go to the schools and become better public through its television broadcast. Another goal is to set thematic priorities for suburban examinations in the framework of the Opcat mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, maintaining the high test quality of the People's Procuratorate as well as the informal, free and easy access to the People's Procuratorate, which our people enjoy and appreciate, as well as its further expansion, are of course also one of the objectives for the future. We as Parliament, of course, strive to create the necessary framework conditions in order to really support the People's Procuratorate. In this sense, I would like to pay tribute to the three lawyers who are really committed and who are well aware of their areas, especially the But also to the staff who work in the People's Procuratorate, I would like to thank them very much and wish them all a good job in the interests of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18516	I call Mr Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18541	Mr President. Minister of State, particularly Mrs Federal Minister for Integration! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! With regard to the integration budget, we unfortunately have to find that it is a disappointment again. It's too little for us, it's not meaningful and it's not ambitious. Although the budget is rising, this is mainly due to a shift of 28 million euros, which travel from the AMS to the integration facility. There is also a slight increase of 7.4 million euros, which we naturally welcome, but I will say no matter why this is not enough for us and why the dedication of this increase is also dissatisfying for us. At the same time, however, there is no longer any single objective for integration beyond this budgetary increase. The relevance of integration in the ministry has thus been officially reduced, and that in this very young field of politics, which has so far been set as a cross-sectional matter everywhere – and now, as there is its own Ministry of Integration, the budget has its own impact target for integration. But what really is a witness to poverty: The Integration Fund, the ÖIF, is currently receiving a large part of the increase by 7 million euros, i.e. a substantial increase in budget and competences, which is expected to take over the language courses of the AMS in the future – i.e. more money for the ÖIF, but at the same time, performance expectations are falling to the ÖIF. In 2019, for example, 91.3 percent of all asylum seekers and subsidiary protected persons visited a value or orientation course. As a target for the next year and for the next year, however, the Ministry of Integration sets a target value of 80 percent, that is, below what we achieved in 2019 and 2018. I don't understand. How unambitionable this objective is, with increased budget resources for the ÖIF! But it is symptomatic for this federal government: They raise the problems and not the solutions, but it would be important to accept them. That is why I am pleased – and we have discussed it a few times today – that we in Vienna, with the new red-pink coalition, are going another way in this area and, if you want to, we are also making a counter-conception on the policy of this federal government. In the field of integration, it is said to play in our government programme literally: “We therefore confess to a solution-oriented path [...], which “ either closes our eyes to the problems, still fuels highly emotional debates. The focus must be on concrete work in the area of integration [...].’ We also fill this flake with data in the Preambel, quite specifically: As far as the value and orientation courses are concerned, we will expand them in Vienna and, so to speak, achieve what the federal government does not provide enough, and create additional places for value and orientation courses in Vienna. On the question of how much budget is available for de-radicalisation measures in 2021, Mrs Integration Minister, you said that you were not responsible for de-radicalisation and therefore would not have planned a budget for it. – However, in recent days, you have been on the road to relevant press conferences for the purpose of not being responsible for deradicisation. In particular, deradicalisation in the area of integration must be considered everywhere, whether it be in the promotion of dialogue and peace between faith communities, in the promotion of youth projects or elsewhere. In conclusion: Do you know what I'm so sorry about? – Many people have chosen the ÖVP because of the key word integration, even in Vienna – I think it can be recognized – but if more people saw, no matter how successful an integration policy is, many of these people would turn away from you. The people in Austria, including the people you choose because of integration policy, are interested in increasing the solutions and not just the problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18592	Ms MMag has now delivered an opinion. Dr. Susanne Raabzu Word reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18616	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! As Chancellor of the Office, I can give you an insight into the Federal Chancellor's Office's budget today and in particular explain my priorities for the next year. For the BKA, a total budget of 458.1 million euros is planned for 2021. The increase compared to the last budget is mainly due to a higher budget in the areas of integration, the increase in the female budget and also the increase in the population budget. In the Volksgruppenbereich, the doubling of the promotion of the ethnic groups represents a very special milestone. We have increased the funding of groups by 4 million euros, which now totals more than 7.8 million euros. This is the first increase for 25 years and really a milestone and an expression of appreciation for our six recognised groups. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am very pleased that we have already complied in the first years of our work with the commitment to a timely increase in the promotion of groups. Ladies and gentlemen! This year was and the next year too will be extremely challenging for all of us. For months we have been fighting a pandemic and also the consequences for society, for the economy, for all of us. This budget, which is also reflected in the budget of the Federal Chancellor's Office, is an expression of this joint effort, which we all do to cope with the crisis. In the area of integration, too, the pandemic presents us with challenges for integration – simply because certain spas cannot take place and because we were required to find new ways to further integration progress. We found these ways: We have invested intensively, even in digital integration formats, we have expanded our online offers massively. I would like to continue this path, even next year, also with this budget, but clearly is also: Interaction is the basic prerequisite for successful integration, and therefore this cannot be a replacement, but we must continue to rely on personal integration measures, on personal exchange, on measures involving people. Our course of funding and demand is consistently continued in 2021. We also take on more money for this, for binding integration measures and for further strengthening integration work in Austria. On the one hand, I am concerned about the acquisition of German skills, because German is the basis for me to be able to participate in all social areas, that I can just contact people, that I have a job, but we will also extend the mandatory value and orientation courses that were previously addressed, both in terms of content and in time – on the content of new aspects, such as an anti-Semitism unit, which we will introduce. I know from my experience in the past years in the integration field how well the Office works, how well it works as an integration key – when people come together with and without migration background in the honorary office, even though the first work experiences can be collected in a voluntary context. All of this leads to the honorary office being an important pillar in the integration area, which I will also support from the department. A very special focus, as you certainly know, is for me to strengthen women with migration backgrounds. They are the integration engines, they are those who pass on the values to the children, those who are often also responsible for education. I would like to strengthen them, but I would also like to protect them more from culturally-related violence, to protect them from forms of violence such as forced marriage, female genital mutilation, patriarchal honour cultures. This is also so important to me as a woman's minister, because I do not want us to take steps back here in the equal rights of men and women and step back into our hard- winned rights, which we as women have acquired over the last decades. Let me come to a second aspect which is particularly challenging to our society this year: In addition to the corona pandemic, more than two weeks ago, we experienced an Islamic terrorist attack in the middle of Vienna, which resulted in all of us living together peacefully in Austria. As Minister of Integration, I would also like to stress that it is the goal of terror to drive a rope into our society, between Christians and Muslims, and also hatred between groups of people, and that we should not fall into this trap. We must keep together and we must fight against Islamist extremism together, regardless of religion. In addition to new measures against terrorists and hazards, I am particularly concerned about the fight against political Islam in the first place, which is the breeding ground for the blind hatred and also for this ideological basis. All over the place – and I would like to take a short look at that – where there is the breeding ground for violence and radicalization, not only when radicalisation has taken place and deradicalization has to take place, but wherever we find an ideology that is anti-Western that wants to divide us, which is perhaps often not yet criminally relevant, but which hinders integration and forms the basis for hatred and can also form the basis for terror and violence. With the newly created documentation centre of political Islam, we have become pioneers in the fight against this extremist ideology in Austria. The documentation body will become independent and scientifically exact in those dangerous ideologies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We will be fighting with all our strength, creating the necessary legal basis for this, and providing the budgetary resources with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18696	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr.in Margit Kraker, is now speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18720	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to start by thanking you for stressing the importance of transparency and control in several speeches, and I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for their good cooperation with the House. In the crisis, which we have heard, there must be a joint effort, we must pool all the forces and everyone must make their contribution. I can assure you that, within the framework of its resources, the Court of Auditors will also take full responsibility in this situation and make its contribution. So much was said about crisis: Crisis and criticism are derived from the same root of words. The crisis is about making decisions so that we can do everything we can to overcome a crisis. The criticism is about taking the assessment of the measures taken subsequently. The Court of Auditors shall be responsible for this in so far as it is State financial resources. The Court of Auditors therefore considers it its obligation and responsibility to extend its audit activity to cover the wide range of covid-19 crisis management measures in order to be able to submit audit reports to the House, you and the public on all major expenditure areas. In the post-crisis period, we will be able to assess what was done correctly and what could have been done better, how we need to improve overall in order to get the right lessons out of the crisis. After a crisis like the present, after a pandemic that inhibits all systems, there can be no more taboo either. That is to say, it is a matter of tackling reforms, restoring sustainable finances and not resting. A democracy is always about accountability, transparency and control. From the Court of Auditors we see it as our obligation to fully control the support and assistance measures. It must be ensured that the funds are used in a needs-oriented and effective manner. Financial sustainability and the creation of transparency are the focus of our reflections, and the focus of the investigation on citizens' benefits is also appropriate because it concerns the provision of services for citizens – the Court of Auditors sees itself as a public lawyer. Of course, we will continue to make our test programme very balanced, also in the sense of our function to bring about preventive effect. I now come to the Court of Auditors' budget. The Court's budget comprises EUR 36,5 million, which is a small increase of 1.4 percent compared to the 2020 budget. We can therefore keep the 282.5 full employment equivalents, but are of course miles away from financing the personnel plan, which is in itself 323 posts. We are at our efforts in so far as Realistically, but we have a medium-term objective of reaching 290 VBs for the Court of Auditors, and I can say: The great task we are facing would in all cases justify that. As a Court of Auditors, therefore, ensuring high-quality inspection and control work is an absolute priority for us, especially for me. It is about that we have planning certainty that the medium-term budget is in place. I also point out that in the next four years, as in many other public institutions, a high number of staff will reach retirement age. In this context, I would like to thank my auditors because they are the backbone of the Court of Auditors, they are doing valuable examination work and, in this difficult situation, before which the Court of Auditors too – the examination has become different – provide the necessary flexibility. [[Complaints with SPÖ and NEOS, as well as with representatives of the ÖVP]] In principle, I would also like to say that, of course, I am hopeful and confident that we will soon be able to talk seriously again about extending the audit competences of the Court of Auditors. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, Mr Lausch and Mr Loacker.]] There are projects in the Government Programme on Party Financing and Examination of Public Enterprises. There are further test gaps. The Court of Auditors' focus for the coming year is certainly digitisation. We experience digitization: It's about the hardware exchange. We are already very decentralised, because we have auditors who are used to working outside the house, but we need the necessary tools to do so, so we will use the necessary tools for this. Of course, we will also further digitize the entire test work and make workflows safer and more efficient. I am also pleased that the sustainability targets have already been mentioned. This is also something we are very active in the context of the Intosai, whose global coordination platform we are. In summary, I can tell you that with our budget we want to make a dedicated contribution to addressing all the challenges of the state. In conclusion, a fundamental note on its own: We have stated in our objectives of effect that we, the representatives of the National Council and the Land Days, will ask you for feedback on the satisfaction with our work in the three-year period. Over the course of this week, you will receive relevant questions so that we can hopefully meet the objective of effect that we have set ourselves. Anyway, we've started the process, and for the rest, I'm looking for your support. As I said, thank you for your cooperation and for your confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18802	Ms Mag.a Agnes Sirkka Prammergelanges has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18827	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Seers and See you! I can divide my speaking time into two very important areas, namely, the two Supreme Courts, the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court, and the sport. Because I don't know how to link them with purpose, I don't try that at all, but I dedicate myself to them individually. I am pleased that the budgets for the highest courts allow the procedures to be carried out very quickly. Both are among the top riders in international comparison. Even if individuals cannot go fast enough in their own proceedings, we are hardly in an area where something could be optimised, thanks to the good equipment of the two courts. That's very important. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Especially in this year, we have seen how important and valuable the interaction between the legislation on the one hand and the Supreme Court on the other, because it was actually almost modelled and, as in the timeframe, how the process of legislation on the corrective case law of the Constitutional Court works and back into improved legislation. This has actually been very well pre-examinationed, thank you very much to the highest courts. I now come to the sport without a tight transfer – there is also a lot of pleasures to report. In particular, the focus is on promoting women in sport. We don't even know since the bad publication of a photo that it's very important to break the men's rogues in organized sports. Not only will there be a targeted promotion of women in the youth sports sector, but above all there will be a special training programme, with which graduates of sports science studies will be supported to take a foothold in organisations and associations. This is a lot, much more valuable than a group image with a lady. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also invested in the infrastructure sector, for example in the construction of the women's eishockey federal service centre in Villach. It is also equally important that a focus should be placed on protecting against sexualised violence in sport, an area that is very important and must be looked at in any case. It is very good that important accents can be set again. Important green accents are also set in the area of sports major events. Yes, there will be them again, the events where we can fire the athletes and celebrate their successes with them. The more we help together now, the easier the way will be. There will be very special events, because we will develop a very special form of green events adapted to the needs of sport, and we will therefore provide sustainability criteria and require them.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18884	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reinhold Einwallner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18908	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer to the Public Prosecutor's Chapter in my contribution to the debate, and may first and foremost express my thanks to the lawyers and to the staff of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to say that the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, I think it's good to say thank you once. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] We have heard today in many debates that this is a budget in which the figures do not vote, the second budget presented by the Minister for Finance Blümel, in which there is no figure in the back and in the front – this is the case for a long time. In the public prosecutor's budget one has to make a small exception, which is relatively manageable from the budget size and also with regard to the requirements that come in the future, so the figures will fit relatively well. This is, as has been said, less related to the expertise of the Minister of Finance, but rather to the nature of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so that despite all the major challenges the public prosecutors will face. We have seen in the first lockdown phase how much the number of requests to the public prosecutors has increased and how much it is necessary to make special audits and special reports. It is precisely for these purposes that the appropriate resources and resources are needed, and these must be ensured in a budget which also takes account of citizens' concerns accordingly. If you look at that, you can see that this is a situation that was not easy for the public prosecutors. Control visits could not be carried out during the Covid crisis in the form of what was used to, and also speaking hours and speaking hours in the federal states could not be carried out in the way – this is a major factor for people in the Vienna countries in particular to get directly in touch with the public prosecutor. That is why I believe it is important to find solutions here, which will also be in line with that in the future. I already said it in committee: I would encourage the public prosecutor's online offer to extend something in order to be prepared in times like this and, on the other hand, to address a little younger audience, because we know that the main public of the public prosecutor's office are not the youngest citizens. So there is a lot to do in this area too. Finally, thank you again to the People's Procuratorate and its employees who do outstanding things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18963	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Ernst Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e18987	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate women ministers! All the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! For several decades, Western European countries have been exposed to more or less strong immigration. At least 20 percent of the population in the Western European countries have migration backgrounds, and so it is with us. That is why integration is, of course, of particular importance for the functioning of society. It is also written in the government programme: “The objective of integration is equal participation in social life.” The fact that our government takes the issue of integration very seriously proves, on the one hand, that its own ministry has been set up for it and that, with our Mrs. Federal Minister Susanne Raab, a very strong, competent and experienced person is at the head of this ministry. On the other hand, it also shows the fact that we are increasing the means of integration in this draft budget. This is not only because, for the holding of German courses, 28 million euros are being converted from the labour market budget to the integration budget, but also because an additional 7 million euros are intended for specific priorities. In total, the integration budget for the next year will comprise EUR 103 million. Ladies and gentlemen, integration is basically based on a principle of two-sidedness. On the one hand, there is a society that is ready to take up people who make sufficient offers with their institutions. That is exactly what is happening in the budget of next year. At the end of the day, however, it is really decisive whether those people who migrate to us and legally stay with us are also willing to advance their own integration into our society. It must be the very clear message of society and also of us in politics: Integration is mandatory! Integration is something that is required. Integration is not a hobby, integration is not a voluntary leisure event. No, integration is mandatory! And what does that mean? – The Minister has already mentioned it: of course, learning our language. More resources are also being provided to offer German courses. That means, of course, understanding and respecting our values. The value and orientation rates will be offered even more in the coming period and will also be extended. That means, of course, trying to integrate into the labour market. There is also a need for special efforts when we know that, for example, before the Corona crisis, 30 000 people, asylum seekers and eligible beneficiaries were unemployed. What's that supposed to mean? – The Minister has also mentioned this: to focus on honorary office as a good engine for integration into society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Unfortunately, despite all efforts, there are always people who do not seriously mean integration, who, while living here with us, may even exploit the social state, yet do not take a step towards integration, but perhaps even fight against our open society. A painful experience was the terrorist attack two weeks ago. That is why it is quite clear that this is also a task that we have to face, namely, extremist tendencies to announce the struggle. So it was absolutely right and important that our Mrs. Federal Ministers, together with the entire government, set up the Political Islam Documentation Centre in July. We will also picture this documentation body in the forthcoming budget by covering it with EUR 900 000. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, integration is something we must call for with all vehemence. However, for the individual to fulfil this obligation, there is a need for comprehensive offers from the State. This requires a consistent policy and, of course, appropriate financial resources, and this is illustrated in this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19041	I call Mr Alois Kainz. – You have planned 3 minutes and will certainly create a point landing. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19071	Mr President. President of the Court of Auditors! Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! Dear People's Lawyers! High house! Appreciate Seers! State institutions shall faithfully exercise the power of state conferred on them in the name of the people and shall also be responsible for their proper management. In order to prevent the abuse of this power, there are constitutional control bodies, such as the Court of Auditors. However, the Court of Auditors will only be able to complete its work if it has enough budget. The budget for the Court of Auditors amounts to 36.6 million euros in 2021, i.e. an increase of 1.4 percent compared to the previous year. This small increase on the one hand is, of course, encouraging, but also disappointing, because, unfortunately, the staff plan for the Court of Auditors of 323 planned posts cannot be fulfilled again. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors, with its budget for 2021, can maintain 282.5 full employment equivalents, but cannot recruit new staff. Madam President of the Court of Auditors, you have just announced that the Court of Auditors will change its audit plan in the face of the Corona crisis. Considering that, in view of all the corona measures, there is an increased need for examination, it is almost fatal that the Court of Auditors does not have enough budget to recruit more staff. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is a huge potential for savings in many transactions in our state. The analyses and solution-oriented recommendations of the Court of Auditors are therefore of great importance, helping to recognise this, and facilitating optimization processes. That is why I would have liked to have a budget adapted to the Court of Auditors' actual work in view of the Corona crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19107	I interrupt the sitting until the request for urgent procedure is made at 3 p.m. [[The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.]] [[15:00:26]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Rainer Wimmer, Members of Parliament, on “The conclusion with the social-political missteps of this federal government – the discount-free pension after 45 years of work!” (993/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19151	I will resume the interrupted sitting and interrupt the negotiations on agenda items 10 to 11 so that the urgent request can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 993/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19268	I should like to speak as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19289	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a debate today which will show which parties stand for the workers in this country or, in other words, which parties want to influence the workers. We will draw a very clear picture today, you will not be able to dizzy. Mr Bundeskanzler, especially You won't be able to go over it. The cat's out of the bag: Mr. Federal Chancellor, you want to reintroduce the deposits and punish the people. I think you have no sense of what you're doing with it. You have no sense of what people are doing when you re-introduce the deposits. This is about so much money for colleagues. I figured it out. On average, 4 500 euros a year would make up the discounts – 4 500 euros a year, and that for life. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as money really is concerned, we see when we assume that we can still live in the pension for an average of 15 or 20 years. This is about a sum that is adventurous: It is about more than 100 000 euros – this sum is when we talk about deposits. I am not quite sure, Federal Chancellor, whether you have realized this in this form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In reality, this is a reduction in pensions, which is bad, ladies and gentlemen. You can certainly take away from our job that we will resist because we say clearly: Anyone who has worked 45, 46, 47 years and is 62 years old has deserved to be allowed to retire, ladies and gentlemen, without any deductions. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] I'm wondering, Federal Chancellor: Why do it? You do? Why Hunt Are you the employees? I'd like to say, Why Hunt Are you the employees like the hares? They are the ones who have made this country rich, who, with their diligence, their commitment and their skill, keep production and the country high. Especially now, in the difficult time – in the time of the pandemic – these are those people who keep our country running. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, to treat you in this way at this time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's those people who didn't really make the big money. Let's take a look at this: In the metal industry we have wages and salaries of 2 500, 2 600 euros gross in active terms. If they have worked 45, 46 and 47 years, they will have a pension of about 1,700, 1 800 euros net. It is a huge difference, ladies and gentlemen, to stand here at the speaker's desk – and then many will come out – to speak well and to speak the big word or actually to do the manual work on site in the production plants – that is an essential difference. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Talk to people, talk to those affected: Talk to the spies, the construction workers, the miners, the miners! Talk to the asphalters, talk to the steel workers, the electricians and the automechanics! I can tell you: The phones are running hot with us, the people are insecure, the people are disappointed. There are colleagues – you have to actually see that – who simply can't. It's not those sitting on the desk, dear colleagues. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] No, it's those who really hack, who really need to work, dear friends. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You're gonna be a 62-year-old. Year of life and now – rightly – have the chance to retire. You'll fall in the trap. They can't be anymore, they're sick and they're still being punished. This is the way we do not want to go, ladies and gentlemen, and we will show it clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's about these people who are going to punish you here today. I repeat it again and again: 4 500 euros – so much money a year, and that for life. Mr Bundeskanzler, this is really a pension robbery that you are carrying out. He is unfrozen, unheard-of, disrespectful and, above all, despicable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have proved it over and over again in recent years, Mr. Bundeskanzler: They do not mean well with the workers. I say and prophesy to you: They will go into history as the Federal Chancellor, who really hurt the workers. This is like a red thread, and believe You are not going to let the workers forget that! I remember you hanging people around the 12-hour day again – without the involvement of those concerned, dear friends and friends. It was completely unnecessary. People have always been able to work 12 hours, they have not had to wait for you to buy it, Mr. Federal Chancellor. Each contract was completed, but with a fine difference [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] The workers also had the opportunity to say no if they might have had something important to do. That is exactly the right you have taken on the workers. That is objectionable, this is the right of the workers you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are responsible for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us remember very briefly: They have made equal the social security of workers and employees to the ground. This was not by chance the red checkouts, it was not by chance the insurance institution for railways and mining, it was not by chance the local health phone. You promised to do the same for everyone at the time! Where are we today, ladies and gentlemen? – With the joint health insurance fund, we have brought together exactly the opposite. The social security scheme, for example, in which we are all insured here – Mr. Bundeskanzler, in which you are also insured – has money and surpluses until the fall. She can pay quite different benefits. [[Abg. Zarits:... Put together cash registers...!]] It's already a difference whether I get 0 euros for an implant, like you, dear friends, 380 euros or, like those insured at the health insurance fund. It's medicine second class, which was caused by it, and for that you also have the responsibility to take over. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because you forget it so quickly: You have not hesitated to let the evangelical workers jump over the blade for a second. It quickly happened that you made the day of your birthday a working day again. [[Abg. Hörl: That was a judgment!]] They humble the workers and are still proud of it, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and now you are putting the next chapter on the abolition of the hacker scheme. One – now August Wöginger is not there – was always involved when it came to taking away something from the workers: The top black trade unionist was made a gardener by the Bock. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] Klubobmann Wöginger is in the first row when it comes to harming and removing workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Dear Klubobmann, I am not thank God when you look in the mirror in the morning, but I say this quite openly: [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich]] You have not only disappointed the workers, you have not only betrayed the workers once, and you will not forget the workers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You were the detonator at the self-government. When it came to the Car Friday, you watched. – I don't understand: On Sunday he goes to the church, goes to eat, and on Monday he thinks what he can do to the workers. Now comes the abolition of the hackler board, and I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, there is also resistance from your own ranks, and I absolutely do not understand: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] Is it completely up to you what your friends will do to you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] Today I have had the opportunity to change a few words with my black employee representative Kapplmüller Karl – August Wöginger – who knows him very well. He's disillusioned. I was a little surprised when he handed me this poster today. [[keeping a poster in height]] He said: Dear Wimmer Rainer, we as FCG have made a poster: “45 years are enough! No deposit in pension! ==References== January 2020, people who have worked for 45 years can finally retire again without any reductions.” – Bravo, the black employee representatives! You need to think about what your people think about you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I don't want to list everyone now, but there's a lot of people coming in. Beate Palfrader from Tyrol, ÖAAB-Obfrau, says: “I reject the abolition of the hacker scheme “absolutely”. The argument of the ÖVP is “irresistible and plausible”. – She is right, the colleague. Harald Witwer, ÖAAB-Obmann in Vorarlberg, said that this was “a completely false signal”. Talk to the ladies and gentlemen, so that you know what is really going on at the base! Or when I think of those people, I'm his friend: Fritz Pöltl, FCG-ÖAAB-Obmann and group leader of the Chamber of Workers Vienna, who believes that the “government has no skrupel to pull the last euro out of the bag to the ASVG insured person”. – He's quite right, you pull the ASVG insured one out of the last euro. Now one can say that the president of the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol is a scream, but he really works for the workers, and he tells you exactly how it works. Today he has made a press release in which he says: The abolition of the hackler regime is a “democracy policy bankruptcy”! Hubert Hämmerle, the black AK president from Vorarlberg, has really put it to the fore: “ Sebastian Kurz becomes a heartless chancellor, the Turkish ÖVP as a supporter of the neoliberal industrial association!” – ladies and gentlemen, this must give you reason to think! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Dear August Wöginger, wherever you've hidden yourself now, you'll have to take note that you can't treat the workers like slaves, otherwise they'll even pick you out! [[Abg. Belakovich: He's generating himself!]] The argument of the ÖVP was very interesting. It has turned like a chameleon and adapted to the situation. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] One has the impression that the EIA will be so creative when it comes to wiping out workers one to harm workers. ==References====External links== In the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ October: We cannot afford discount-free pensions, this is not all wrong, because the public officials are excluded and the ages 54 to 57 are not included. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer annoyed. You were the ones who rejected our requests! You were the ones who rejected this request in committee, in which we said: Public officials, posters, railways and so on must be included in the time of presence. You were the ones who prevented that! And now you're saying it's unfair that they're not there?- Oh, my God! You do not believe that yourself, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But I can calm you down: We are going to re-submit the proposal today, and Today, you have the opportunity to vote – instead of speaking out – or to confess and say: No, we don't want to, we want to harm the workers! Give it up, you're doing it all the time! Then there is the argument that the discount-free pension is unfair because it only involved employees and hardly any workers. – Well, that's not a very difficult example. We now have 60 percent employees and 40 percent workers in Austria, and this is exactly how this ratio is also in the pension. Of course, more employees have to take advantage of the hacker scheme, which is one thing, one and one is still two. It is interesting that the workers are accused of not working quite as hard or, as you say correctly, Mr. Lawyers, perhaps not hacking. Exciting what Wifo Chief Professor Badelt said yesterday: Employees don't have such a hard job! He said it wouldn't be so strenuous, and in an interval one heard out: The employees are sleeping in the pendulum watch. – I say from this point of view, ladies and gentlemen: That's not the case! The employees work just as hard! We do not allow workers and employees to be divided and played against each other! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A next argument in the Committee, again from Wöginger – again and again the Wöginger –: Those who use the hackler's pension have an above-average pension. – No, they paid 45, 46, 47 years! I would like to present a very small quiz today and ask Mr Wöginger the following question: If one's long insured, will he get more pension or will he get less pension? - Bingo, he gets more pension! And when people have worked 45, 46 or 47 years, of course they have a higher pension, ladies and gentlemen. On average, 553 insurance months are available in the hackler area, with all other pensions on average 428 insurance months. The hacker works ten years longer than the other colleagues, so he also has a higher pension, and he has earned it too, dear friends! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Dear friends of the Greens, especially Mrs Maurer, because I noticed that you talked to me a little bit. You've always said that's so unfair because men benefit more than women. I remind you: Women still have freedom of choice by 2023, which do not yet have any discounts. You're gonna change that, I know that. From 2024 on, women will be heavily affected. I'm telling you, too. No female pension will get higher if you shorten the other pensions. But now that you are in the government, you have the opportunity to really do something for women. [[Abg. Disoski: What did you do?]] Go here and create comprehensive childcare facilities! That's something we've been calling for forever. Go here and make a better bill of child rearing times! That is where the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, fails. And finally stop playing women and men against each other! That makes her green there very special. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have not forgotten the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. Mr. Bundeskanzler, you have on 27 July. In the "Tyrol daily" on October, the hackler rule would be unfinanceable. Now I've been looking at this a little bit: What do you mean? Why can't this be financed? We have tabled a parliamentary question to that effect, namely at the time to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Zarfl, and she has confirmed to us: The hacker scheme costs approximately 26 million euros. Then we asked Finance Minister Müller – he was a little closer to the ÖVP – he said: Well, that'll cost 70 million euros. For security reasons, we then asked once again for pension insurance, and they told us that this would cost 40 to 50 million euros. [[Abg. Loacker: In the first year!]] I've been waiting, dear Loacker, for you to report now. Thank God the voters have given you where you are today, otherwise we would not have bedded in hospital today, no intensive beds, no workers' chamber. [[Abg. Loacker: These are comrades...!]] You would have harmed the workers even more! Good thing you're there with your 9 percent, and good that you have nothing to talk about! Good thing you don't have anything to talk about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] So this is about 40 million euros. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] At the same time, however, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has poured out the fulthorn over the farmers. I really don't want to sow any discord, but to say that we can't afford the hacker scheme, and on the other hand to pour 400 million euros into the farmers' system, that's cockbucking, that's not fair, that's really a joke! Increase in the farmer's pension: 450 euros a year, makes 9 million euros; Reduction of social security contributions: EUR 7 million ; [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Solidarity contribution deleted: 0.5 percent, that's 11 million euros; Young farmers' support: ==References== years of life, young farmers do not pay a social security contribution paid by taxpayers; 20 million euros of tax gifts, packing and smoothing of profits have been mentioned. - I know the farmers are looking at themselves. As soon as we don't need to look, you have everything in your pocket, ladies and gentlemen. – In addition, 350 million euros for the forest fund, because you also have to look at the large landowners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, then go and say that it is unfinanceable and at the same time make a kneefall in front of the economy – I never forgot, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you have abolished the sparkling wine tax; every human being cares whether he pays a euro more or less for the Sampus, but you have made the Sampus drink cheaper – and on the other hand, to take the money out of the bag for the workers, that is not okay, that is a madness! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So, I'm gonna have to tear myself up now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: This is beautiful!]] – Yes, that’s beautiful, but don’t praise too much!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19642	The final sentence, please, you've been exhausted for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19658	When I think about the press conference, what you are doing now, that's not just a snap idea, but with this 1 euro per contribution month between 15 and 20 years old. A year of life is also an increase in women's numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to see how the discussion is going, but I can only tell you one thing from this point of view: As social democrats, we will be fully committed to preventing the cancellations. You will pass this time by the majority, you will put this act, but we will not rest - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19679	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19694	We will not rest, so that we will actually abolish what you have introduced. This is what we promise from our employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19727	The President-in-Office of the Council is hereby informed of the opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19748	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I did not want to interrupt the applause now, because you, honourable Member, have so enthusiastically increased in, that I was almost done and wanted to clap, because it was really interesting. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm:... it's not, it's not that funny!]] I'm afraid I can't keep up with my somewhat factual speech compared to that now, but I very much hope that August Wögererer's next speaker will be able to get along with it in a similar entertaining and verbal way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I try, since we are here in the House, to return to reality and get a little away from all the claims. [[Call at the SPÖ:... back into ridiculousness!]] Mr Wimmer, I would perhaps like to start with three very short facts, not very emotional, but crucial. First: Since I am the Federal Chancellor and I have been able to lead a federal government, we have reduced the tax burden on working people, especially for small incomes, in a massive way, unlike governments before. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second fact: Since I may be Federal Chancellor, we have initially adjusted with the Freedom Party and now with the Greens especially small pensions above inflation, i.e. higher than the Federal Chancellor has done before me. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The third fact: Now in the economic crisis, together with the social partners, I would like to express my warm thanks to the Minister of Labour, but also to the coalition partner, we have developed a short-term work model with which we not only save many jobs, but that is much more generous than in almost all the other countries of the world. These are three facts that I did not want to share very emotionally, but yet with you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now to the so-called hackler scheme: It was a social minister I treasured with whom I was allowed to work when I was in the Federal Government, who belonged to the Social Democratic Party, who abolished it. It was Rudolf Hundstorfer, who abolished the so-called hacker rule. Why? - Because she was unjust. She was unjust to young people. Secondly, it was unfair to all those who recently went to early retirement with early retirement reductions, and it was unfair to women as only men with an above-average pension amounted to almost 400 euros, while women went out empty. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It was Rudolf Hundstorfer who abolished this so-called hacker rule. Yes, it is true that in the 2019 election campaign, shortly before the election – where Parliament is known to make the best and most sustainable decisions in such night-and-nebulous actions – a so-called hacker regime was introduced by some parties as an election sugar, a massive preference of some, especially men, and at the same time a system that is unfair and does not benefit women in particular. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Incredible: “Night and fog action”!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Was the ÖVP in there?]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – And what is unfair, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to finished and repaired, and that is what we are doing as the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the Federal Government, we stand for a fair pension system, which should provide a decent life for all people of old age, and this means, first of all, that we continue to plan, in particular, to pay small pensions over inflation and to increase them gradually. This means that people who have achieved 45 years of contributions who have worked hard for their lives should also receive an adequate pension. Therefore, the Federal Government will take a step with the early entry bonus to take into account in the future additional lessons and to increase pensions for all those who have worked for a particularly long time, who have already made a teaching that has reached 45 years of contributions and thus made a disproportionately large contribution in our society. This is a step towards greater justice. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is a step from which not only a few men benefit, but men and women alike. It is a step that benefits above all people who have also worked physically, who have made a teaching and have long contributed in their professional life. It is a step towards more justice, and I am glad that we are taking this step. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] In addition, the next budget provides EUR 39 billion for the economy and employment sector, because I would also like to say this: A sustainable pension system, eligible pensions will only exist in the future if we as the Republic of Austria are also an economically strong country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Therefore, a great deal of thanks to all the courageous entrepreneurs, to the hardworking employees, to all those who contribute to Austria's economic prosperity, that we can get through this crisis well and then again develop the economic power that we had before. If we succeed, we can also finance and secure our pension system in the future and guarantee a decent existence to all aged people. It is important that it is a just and not an unjust system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19917	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e19938	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I come to the subject, let me ask a question to the EIA. [[Call the ÖVP:Gerne!]] Sometimes you hear this question from me, it's quite simple: What about you, ladies and gentlemen? It's about 3.30 p.m. I have counted that there were 14 speakers from the ÖVP out here, some members of the government have reported themselves, but no one and no one would have come to the idea of apologising for the former National Council President Khol that the former presidential candidate Khol personally threatened the chairman of Austrian social democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] I think that is really remarkable that none of you have succeeded. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== September 2019 here in this House the debate on hacker regulation. The clubman of the ÖVP, August Wöginger, said in this debate: “Whoever has worked his life must not be stupid in the pension.” Now we have the 17th. In November 2020, and after the speech of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, he said: Those who have worked hard for their lives can be happy to be in the pension of the stupid!, we know who has enforced himself in the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Mr Bundeskanzler, for the fact that people who have worked for their lives and who, because they are no longer able and not because they are funny, perhaps a little earlier in retirement, now have less to the 300 euros per month in the future! Thank you very much, Mr Sebastian Kurz, for persuading and persuading this! Dear ladies and gentlemen! But I have the feeling that in this whole debate some of you have had a bit of a bad conscience, because we now have the greatest unemployment since 1946, we have the biggest economic crisis since 1946. People are increasingly afraid of their jobs, and more and more people are becoming unemployed. It was probably the bad conscience that one suddenly acted as you did, namely quietly and secretly trying to enforce this regulation, not to debate it in the Committee on Social Affairs, not to allow this amendment to be reviewed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] Just the week when there's a lockdown again and the subject is probably being overlaid, you tried to do that, but I'll tell you one thing: We won't let you go through that! People should know who stole this pension: It was the ÖVP and it was also the Greens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also always hear that this pension reduction does not really concern anyone like this: Those are the ones who are good anyway, these are those who don't have to work so hard anyway. – Then talk to a bakery worker who may have worked at the oven for 43 years! Talk to a roofer who has had to climb a roof for 43 years every day! Talk to a carpenter who may have lost a finger through his work and can no longer work as well, who feels how hard this work was, how bad it already is! Talk to someone who works in a carnage and maybe can no longer lift the heavy piece of meat! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] This debate is about which you take away the pension, ladies and gentlemen. – This is quite clear once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! You used the term “reality” here and said that you embodie reality. I'll tell you one thing: The life you live is not the reality. The life that is leading the people who are now killing you, that's the reality. These people may have chosen you, but next time, they will certainly not choose you anymore, and I understand that perfectly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20031	Mr Muchich spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20055	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz has stated in his statement that, before the last National Council election in September 2019, there was a “wahlzuckerl” “some parties” for a discount-free pension in a “Night-and-Nebel action”. I'm correcting: These “some parties” also participated in the ÖVP and voted in favour of the National Council election. [[Federal Chancellor Briefly shakes the head and moves the pointing finger back and forth.]] It is simply hypocritical to give people something before the election to take it back after the election.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20093	Mr Stäger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20118	Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz has claimed that my predecessor, Rudi Hundstorfer, had abolished the hacker scheme. - That's wrong. The right thing is: It was black and blue that introduced the deposits. [[Federal Chancellor Shortly shakes the head.]] It is true that Rudi Hundstorfer has not allowed officials to turn around and then go into such a scheme. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Secondly, The Federal Chancellor has claimed that women are disadvantaged by this pension. – I’m actually correcting: Women retire with 60 discount-free.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20157	Klubobmann August Wögingeris speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20181	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These performances, ladies and gentlemen, show the state of this social democracy, show what constitution this party is in! [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Loacker.]] Call Doskozil or Emperor once, call at least your heads of state and ask – or now Ludwig is the great maker, with the NEOS in the luggage, you can only find nothing of the NEOS in the entire program – perhaps they are still able to judge what you can do for the best, because that is inconceivable how deep this party has fallen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Why don't you just stand up to what you did a few days before the election? [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] That wasn't even a night and fog action, because there wasn't even a night before. The request for an amendment to the 2020 pension increase was submitted in the morning. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Belakovich.]] That's the truth! You have tabled an amendment that we have never seen before, then you have abolished the cancellations in all the areas, and on the evening of the same day you have decided to do so. [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Stöger.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] And then you tell us to bring in the applications three or four days earlier. You break every use of this house and drive over it if it suits you, but if the others do, then it is forbidden and it must not be. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At least stand by your dial sugar! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] - Matznetter, can you stop? By the way, you decided to reintroduce the envelopes, you decided! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Call:Don't shout like that]] Do you know who's turning around in the grave and who I've really appreciated? – It was a political friend of mine: Rudi Hundstorfer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It was still a social democracy politician to rely on, with which things could also be reconciled. He has still understood social policy, ladies and gentlemen, and he would turn around in the grave. What do we have then, 2010, it is almost ten years - - – no, it is not possible to talk. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You're yelling in here, 'cause no one's listening outside anymore. That's the problem you have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Rudi Hundstorfer – it is my concern to say that – has strengthened the sustainability of the system and has brought more justice into the system because, at the time, in 2010, we jointly decided on a bonus malus system in the government, which then entered into force at the end of 2014. Why? – First of all, because we've seen the numbers explode, and second, because you've always meant: If you work for a lifetime, it's okay to have a corresponding pension. But we are not talking about the low pensions, we are talking about an average pension here – and that is what people have earned, no one is contradicting – of almost 3 000 euros at the moment. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] At that time, in 2019, the average pension was EUR 2 650 in the long-term insurance scheme – that is to say, because the real hacklers and Bucklers on construction use a different solution: a bridging fee and then the heavy-worker scheme, which is available at 60. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wimmer]] These are long-term insured persons, and we do not abolish this regulation either, but we are again introducing a bonus-malus system, as we did together at that time. It is precisely on the point and the addition that we are putting this into practice again, because we want women and those who have started working after school to get a bonus, the so-called early starter bonus. We want this because it's fairer, because it's getting everyone and not just a small group, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek – and where is President Bures? – you should actually run away from this discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Call the SPÖ: You're gone!]] A woman benefited from this long-term insurance scheme in the first half of 2020, a single, and 7 250 men. I have nothing against the men who have stopped working, and it is also for them – but it's just a woman, and then you go here and say that's not true. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What are you talking about?]] For the next seven years, the women do not actually benefit from it: no hairdresser, no office merchant, no salesman. We create a solution with the early starter bonus that these women who started working after school will get up to 60 euros a month more, 840 euros a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wimmer]] This is a recognition of the achievements of those people who started working early, and not such a broken system. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] You know very well, the union union is not only there for fire reasons in some places, but you have some good people who calculate this: In this year's long-term insurance scheme, we expect 12 000 entries, the additional cost is 60 million euros. And that's what I'm telling you, Mr Wimmer: I appreciate you for yourself, you've been mayor in Hallstatt, you're an ordinary trade union representative, a hard-working works councillor, I appreciate you, but you're always playing professional groups against each other. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wimmer]] During the Borkenkäfer in Austria whole regions bald and farmers have a minimum pension of not even 800 euros, you make yourself and say to the forest package: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] It's unfair for us to use the money for it. We do not allow this to happen by the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] You know very well if I charge this 60 million euros to 20 years of a pension year, then we have expected additional costs of 1.2 billion euros. We're not talking about the lowest pensions here, I said it: 3 000 euros now, 2,700 will also be in the future. We do not abolish this regulation, and finally stop putting this to us all the time! [[Abg. Kollross:... Drops...!]] Together with Kickl, you have decided to vote for it, Hofer was not like that anyway, but Mr Kickl was for it – as always, when it comes to social programmes in this area. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You decided!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] You left more damage, not just there, we know that. It is about creating a more just and sustainable system. It is also about future generations, and it is also about the future in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] We have the responsibility as politicians, that we can also secure a pension for those who are 20 years old, 30, 40 years old – and that is why we have to do so. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What you're trying to convey: Workers' policy is the inheritance of the red ÖGB. First of all: First get together in your own ranks! And the second: You have had long enough Social Democratic Chancellors and Social Ministers. [[Call the SPÖ:But unfortunately only with you!]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: But here you are to blame!]] Neither the chancellor nor the ministers have done anything in many areas – this has only happened since Sebastian KurzKanzler was. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ah-Rufe at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] - Yes, that's your problem. This is the problem of social democracy, that we have a successful chancellor, Sebastian Kurz, who likes the people who are there for this country, who stands up for them and who does exactly what people demand from a politician. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] He listens to people too, and that's your problem, that's your problem, ladies and gentlemen, nothing else! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Family bonus, tax relief, minimum pensions raised, everything under this chancellor. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Kickl and Worm.]] – Yes, you have to go with it, Kickl, it doesn’t help, because you were half with it, there were no such bad times – up to Ibiza scandal, I want to stress that too. That's your basic problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the level we have decided with you. It's actually a dog-tore rule that we're going to introduce again. We do not do it, but what we have introduced and presented today is a fair bonus for those who have started to work after compulsory school, who have made a teaching between 15 and 20 years old. I've been working for a lifetime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wimmer]] We give them an additional support as recognition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is Christian-social policy, which is a modern policy and not a mott-box policy! [[Abg. Worm: Yes, of course!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20565	Mr Koza spoke of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20589	An actual correction to the comments made by Mr Alois Stöger, colleague Alois Stöger, claimed that women were in the 60s. If you are a pensioner, you are entitled to a pension. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Call:This is not an actual correction]] The concept of freedom of deposit is not meaningful in this sense, because 60 years is the regular retirement age for women, there are no reductions.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20633	Mr Leichtfried spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20659	Mr President. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that what the colleague has just made was not an actual correction, because, I believe, § 58 of the Rules of Procedure does not provide for an actual correction. [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] He could at most make a personal response if he had been addressed, but he was not. I would therefore ask you to refer this to the speaking time of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20702	That's actually right, that's not a question at all. I did not know before that it refers to the correction, but it could also have been something else, so it is also included in the speaking time. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's report is actually correct. Let's see – I don't know what she's saying either.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20735	But I know! – Mr Wöginger has just said in his speech: You have decided on the long-term insurance scheme. I'm actually correcting: We have decided together here in the House. [[Abg. Wooger: Ah!]] You were there, too, August Wöinger. Secondly, in his speech, Mr. Wöginger has just claimed that the women would also benefit from this early starter bonus – early starter bonus does not get through his lips. [[Abg. Zarits: Sorry!]] I'm actually correcting: Not all women will benefit. A third – those who worked between 15 and 20 – may benefit, but not all women! [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: The majority!]] So stay with the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20814	Mr Wurm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e20835	Mr President. Values Chancellor! Minister! High house! It is always quite funny to be allowed to come to the speaker's desk after colleagues. He did a lot of work. I should also like to put to the test the credibility of an August Wöingerer and of the ÖVP; I would like to make a brief test from the National Council Protocol of 19 March. Cite September 2019, 10.44 a.m. – that was the day when this ominous hacker rule was introduced, where the ÖVP voted. [[Call the SPÖ: Don't give it!]] August Wöginger then said: “That which we have promised, ladies and gentlemen, is the policy of the People’s Party in recent years, that is politics today.” – quote from the minutes of this September 2019 meeting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] So much in the direction of ÖVP only to what you can think of your handshake quality. There is also a call for let me tell you, Mr Kickl – Herbert, you said at the time: “There he must laugh himself!” – You were right at the time and also today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now here in the House for seven years and have received two calls for orders. I hope that today, even with the help of the President, I can and can increase this. To the ÖVP and the Greens: Are you crazy?- Oh, my God! To abolish the hacker rule is a pigry! That is what I am saying here from this speaker's point of view. If there's no call for order, I'm glad. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Those who have worked for 45 years who have paid taxes, who have paid social contributions, now want to punish. The statement you make with it, and the message I also consider fatal, namely: Industriousness, endurance, commitment, all of this is suddenly worth nothing – especially for the ÖVP. It's quite exciting that I've got the two right ones sitting there: Mrs Maurer and also Federal Chancellor Kurz. That, of course, for both of you, the idea of starting work at the age of 15, 16, 17 is completely beyond, Mrs Maurer and Mr Bundeskanzler, is already clear to me, but for hundreds of thousands of Austrians, it has always been quite normal. This is also the reason why we stand there today as Austria after the Second World War: because countless Austrians were diligent and worked for decades and kept this system alive and fed. You forget all of this, and it's all worth nothing to you. With a stroke it's suddenly from the table. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The facts are very brief: It currently covers some 7 000 who benefit from the discount-free pension and save up to 12.6 percent. I should like to point out once again: The cost is 30 to 40 million euros per year. That's an amount – in recent months you've thrown billions more or less out – that can't play a role. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not true!]] Also in the direction of NEOS, because Mr Loacker always calculates this, a very crucial note, an important note: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] The life expectancy of workers is lower in Austria compared to that of academics by six years. That is, those people we are talking about here have a life expectancy less than six years, and this is not calculated in any model, in no budget model, including the ASVG, but people should know. The workers also live on average for six years shorter. As I said, this is typical ÖVP and greens. This is also obviously no longer your constituency clients, that you are not interested in. You only forget one thing, which is what you are now always saying in the Corona crisis: These life rescuers, the ominous Billa seller or nurse, are also those women who will benefit from this scheme in the future, because the adjustment of the retirement age is coming for women, starting in 1963. At the latest with the year 1968, women are going exactly the same as men, who have to work for 45 years and then have the deposits. This is not worth anything to the Greens, nor is it worth nothing to the EIA. It's a wild women's policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The marketing gag – which is also typical of this government – with this early booking bonus or new entry bonus or what it is supposed to be, looks like this: You want to make 60 euros gross and take 300 euros away. Believe me. People are not as stupid as you always believe! Sometime this journey is over from you. People wake up and they will see that the system that represents Greens and ÖVP is not for their benefit. There is a beautiful saying of Brecht, if I have it right in my head – I have to read it: Only the dumbest calves choose their slumber themselves. It will eventually become clear to everyone what he has chosen and what comes to him. As I said, What I do is simply respect for work, for work, for work, for commitment, for performance. In my opinion, they are completely removed and a social one. I can only say: All you've been delivering for workers and workers lately is actually a revelation page, and I hope that people will wake up sometime and punish it clearly. Before I forget, I would like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I had the silent hope that this abolition and the punishment of hardworking workers in Austria would still avert the ÖVP because I had the greatest hope that you were a little reasonable. With the Greens, I never had the hope. The fact that the ÖVP is now finally giving up these principles is also a real bankruptcy declaration for German chancellors. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21071	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21095	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Finance! Values German chancellors! As the first woman in this debate, I would like to point out: I understand, of course, that it is painful for social democracy that what it has recorded as a success in its then application is now taken back. What I do not understand, however, is how this regulation can still be defended in this way. It is a scheme from which few men with very high pensions benefit with the highest pensions. We are talking about a pension of 2 845 euros, almost two and a half times the female pension. [[Abg. Worm: Gross!]] [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kickl.]] [[Abg. Worm: Gross!]] In the first half of the year, only one woman has benefited, and in the next seven years this will not change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A single woman has so far benefited from it. Social democracy definitely has merit in the area of feminism, but as far as this question is concerned, certainly not. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is a feminist question, not a pension question!]] What's this about? – It is about having a pension system that is as fair as possible as possible to ensure that people who have worked many, many years of their lives have a good pension. [[Abg. Kickl:... just in front of the TV!]] In principle, there is already a gender pension Gap, which is huge because women have much, much lower pensions than men. This freedom of discount in the hacker scheme has increased this Gender Pension Gap even further. Instead of a scheme that benefits from some 8,000 to 10,000 men with good, high pensions, we are now creating a scheme that benefits 60 000 people, men and women. So your argument is that men are playing against women, they're empty, because it's not right. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Both sexes benefit from our new system, from the early starter bonus, and especially those who started working especially early in their lives. Mr Wurm has meant that both of us and the Federal Chancellor did not start working early. That's quite right, I actually went to a higher school, but my first job was with 16 in metal processing, in the chord valves, screws and grid boxes with many kilos of metal tear through the area. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Keck: For a month!]] I have seen this work reality myself, and I know how difficult it is and what it means. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Keck: For a month!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] The claim that is made here, it would be about the classic hackers in the metal sector, is not right. [[Call the SPÖ: That's an insanity! ... Verial practitioners!]] First of all, 55 percent of the people who are in the scheme are employees, and second, those who really have these extremely difficult heavy work jobs, who are not at all 45 years old, are already in the disability pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lag]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Lag]] That's reality. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Ah!]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] We're distributing the early starter bonus. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is a cheap solution!]] We are now distributing the amount of money spent on the freedom of deduction to much more people. [[Abg. Belakovich: You don't know what you're talking about!]] That's 840 euros a year. For the low female pension, the average female pension is almost a 15. Pension payment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is a model that fights the poverty of women, as well as the increase in the compensation allowance that we have already decided this year to combat the poverty of women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lag]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These are actually feminist women's policies, and not if you are still making politics for men and not for women for the obviously male-dominated union. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Abg. Belakovich: For God's sake!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] I would also like to point out, of course, that everyone who has worked for 45 years has the right – 45 years are enough – to retire early, but these pensions are quite high. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] [[Abg. Keck: But not free!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] Women who have very often had care obligations, which in reality are not able to reach 45 years, are not covered by this scheme. [[Abg. Keck: That's crazy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Abg. Keck: You have no idea of anything!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Keck: (with very loud voice) Stop! No shame what you're saying here!]] – Now I’m slowly getting scared here at the speaker’s desk - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21465	Please be moderate, even in spite of all emotionality! There is no need to fear anyone here and not at all - - – you can speak here and make your contribution! [[Abg. Keck: This is an increase of the working people in Austria!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21510	What's important to me is: It is a fixed amount, that is, the people with low pensions, i.e. those who have least money to live, benefit disproportionately. This is good and important in the fight against poverty and it is also a compensation for the great injustice that we still have in this country between men and women, between high and low incomes. I think this is a very good solution, a very fair solution that benefits considerably more people, that is, six times as many as the current regime. I believe that, as politicians, we owe society the right to build systems that are as fair and fair as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21546	Mr Loacker has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21573	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! The debate begins with a wrong name, namely Hacklerpension. It has been taken short notice of who are the professional groups, who typically can use this discount-free early pension – nothing else is going on. I give them to anyone who gets them, you understand me correctly, no one stole them, but you have to see who serves them. Mr Wimmer pointed out that it would be people who do a lot of manual work, and Mr Leichtfried then drew on the example of the roofers – and they are not. The roof cover is in the building workers' holiday and handling fund and is in heavy work, that is, he goes into the bridge money at 58.5 and at 60 to the heavy work board. He does not get this discount-free early board around which it is today, but typically they get people who are in very safe jobs, which one does not lose and which one also keeps physically for a long time. [[Abg. Worm: The floor army already!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] Typically – there are always exceptions to the large number of insured persons in pension insurance – the employees of chambers, banks, insurance companies that have long-term secure jobs there. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] [[Abg. Hörl: Communities!]] In reality, this regulation, which is readjusted today, is a scheme for the top ten thousand in the pension system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] No one can want you to pick one more where it is already great, and you did that on September 19, 2019, with the approval of the ÖVP – but I am also pleased when a government party considers its responsibility. I would like to say one more thing: This is about workers who are very important in our labour market, and we know that despite the economic crisis, we still have a shortage of skilled workers. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In this phase of the shortage of skilled workers, an incentive has been given to lay down the work earlier and to retire early in retirement free of charge. That was the wrong incentive, and that's why you shouldn't have done it. It is about people who are not so super in life, for example, who have lost a job, because it has not worked, or because the company has gone bankrupt, and who have been unemployed for a few months. They are then not as fast as 45 years of contributions as those with safe job that have been sitting in a chamber. Or if someone has been sick for a longer time because he has had health problems because he has had to overcome a cancer, had a disc incident and so on and many weeks and months have failed, the one who does not have this continuous career career, which results in going down in early retirement – they do not get it. Or if someone has worked in a difficult industry where there are seasonal breaks, he cannot get there. It could also have had such a job, for example in a chamber or in an insurance, and then after 538 instead of 540 months he has a heart attack and cannot continue to work. He'll get these discounts for two months. You have a high level of room in the system: 12 percent difference whether one month has more or less. That's not fair, and you've fabricated this unjust solution. One thing is often hidden: It is clear to everyone, on all sides of Parliament, and also to the citizens, when a former person enters the profession, for example at 15, the person concerned gets a better pension than one who gets into work at the age of 18, because he has worked for three years. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Depends on what he deserves!]] It's just as logical that someone who stops at 65 gets a better pension than one who stops at 62 because he worked three years longer. The person who retires at 62 will be entitled to the benefit three years longer, who has already received a pension for three years when the other goes into retirement. You have to count on the examples about what it is all about. On average 2 900 euros 14 times over three years: There we are at 121 000 euros, which he has already collected when the other 65 retires. 121 000 euros want You're not going to push them over? This is not fair to the people who have not had it so well, who have once become unemployed, who have once become ill and who have not fallen into the lap in life. [[Abg. Lercher: This is an insurance benefit!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] Then at the cost: Rainer Wimmer turns out here and says, It costs only 50 million euros anyway! – In the first year! But there are always years to come, and in full development, that has been the budget service of Parliament, this election gift costs EUR 1.6 billion each year. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So I welcome the fact that this mistake is now being betted, but I also have to criticize the fact that the majority of governments are going here and that money – the money of the next generation that we don't have – will be carried out even more closely by Mr Shetty – is now simply redistributed to others. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] You cannot simply take away a pension gift that is not financed and distribute the non-existent money elsewhere. This does not contribute to stabilising the pension system. You also have to look at what the various pension gifts of the year 2019 cost. The budget has been used for this for our group. There were several gifts that you all have included – even today a 3.5 percent pension increase. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] None of your employees have received a 3.5 percent CV increase, none of your workers have received a 3.5 percent CV increase, but the pensioners whose Gage comes every month fixed therefore, who no longer have a professional risk, get 3.5 percent. [[new call to the SPÖ]] You can think that's fair, I think in an economic crisis it's not exactly that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There are now workers and employees who have lost income because they lose their job because they are in short work because they can no longer do the overtime they have done for years; they have losses. The self-employed have income losses because they can no longer make the revenues they had before. Some are facing bankruptcy, have been hacking into their company for 30 years and are now getting nothing, some of them have been banned by the lack of government policy. On the other hand – and we are now at the time of the division of society – there are fixed employees: pensioners, employees in the public service, as well as politicians who get in with the money every month. In times like this, to distribute money to those who have no risk that it cuts in directly every month, that's not fair, and that's what you're doing now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21731	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21752	Dear High House! Hello to all those who watch at home! Today, the government, consisting of ÖVP and Greens, repeals the hacker regime. The Federal Government thus makes it possible to retire after 45 years without any deductions. Funnyly, even the Federal Chancellor himself explained earlier that they had only been introduced a year ago. He said: Some parties decided at that time. – Mr Federal Chancellor, I think it was the ÖVP. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: No!]] [[Calls at the ÖVP:No!]] - No? The ÖVP did not vote in favour of the hacker scheme? – [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: He wasn't there!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The point is that August Wöginger, live here in the course of this debate, said: Those who have worked for a lifetime must not be stupid. – That’s actually fraud when you promise something before the election, when you say you’re going to work for it, and then you just don’t talk about it after the election, but you even abolish it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] What does this mean? I am already of the opinion that the ÖVP-Obmann then called Sebastian Kurz and not Santa Claus – I just want to put it right here – and I am asking you, can we not afford to be able to age in dignity and respect after 45 years, with a pension from which you can live well without any discounts? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Let's say the hacker scheme costs 40 million euros, we say it costs even more. Let's put it in relation! By the way, the foam tax reduction you decided in spring as a measure due to the economic crisis triggered by Corona costs 26 million euros. [[Abg. Loacker: But not every year... to that!]] [[Calls and calls between Greens and NEOS]] – Very important, this reduction of the sparkling wine tax! The profit interests of the sparkling wine manufacturers for whom you lowered the tax will not be more important to you than the people who have worked for 45 years! That can't be true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 2 billion euros are included in this budget for tax gifts for millionaires, for corporations and large-scale landowners, only for hackers is it not enough. Is that a coincidence? - I don't think so. This shows who you're doing politics for here. [[Call at the SPÖ:Who pays for the crisis?]] How can one possibly get there at all in the time of the largest social and economic crisis in the Second Republic, where unemployment continues to rise, even among those over 50 years of age in which poverty manifests itself again, saying: So, and now we're shortening at the pensions!? – How do you get on it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the SPÖ:... ÖVP economy...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Yeah, it's a cut, I'll figure it out shortly after: For all those who have worked for 45 years, up to 240 euros per month remain less, but for the luxury pensions – it has formulated NEOS: the hackler scheme is for the top ten thousand – this government is not, by the way, shortened. This is also a great injustice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I would like to say one more thing: It is certainly not a pension gift if you get back what you did after 45 years of working and paying in this system. They call the gift – this is a joke! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the NEOS: You don't know what...!]] In fact, it's about: What is the value of work in our society? [[Abg. Wöger: Yes!]] What value does work have for this government? What is the value of our labour force? What is the value of our lifetime? For 45 years, more than half of his life, working isn't even worth a full pension for you? – This is the problem we have, and if you always say: Work must pay off, who works, must not be stupid!, then I hope that they will not either bring down the hacker regulation today or never put these sentences in the mouth again. They prove exactly the opposite here today: Those who have worked for 45 years have no right to a full pension in your eyes. – This is the real problem: the value of the work you simply disregard. 45 years must be enough! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21941	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger spoke about an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e21966	Mrs Herr claimed that the ÖVP had agreed in September last year to the freedom of withdrawal of the long-term insurance scheme. I'm actually correcting: The People's Party rejected the amendment to which the freedom of movement was regulated. In the third reading we agreed because it was about the pension adjustment for this year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] [[A major contradiction with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] However, we have rejected the amendment, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22005	Member of the Tsarits has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22026	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the televisions! Mr Wurm, when a Member of the FPÖ speaks of reason right now in this challenging time, I cannot say much more about it, I must say it quite honestly; and Mr Wimmer, to your speech, in which you have said so many false things, in brief: Mistake is human, always wrong is social-democratic, I think, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us go back 30 years, Mr Wimmer – free after the great SPÖ chancellor –: Learn history, Mr. Colleague! – I think the pension system was developed in 1970 and since then has been very, very much happening. [[Abg. Belakovich: 1990... Kreisky!]] Fortunately, social democracy is no longer in the government – this is a lucky case for this republic – and people are fortunately getting older, life expectancy is increasing because we have a good health and social system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is currently true that every Austrian, every Austrian in the course of their working life, on average, pays only as much as he can be in retirement for eight years, but it is actually such that we are in retirement for 23 years, and I do not need colleagues Taschner to know that this is not going to happen again at some point. This would even have to be able to calculate Mr Wimmer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rainer Wimmer.]] At some point, there is nothing left for our children, for our grandchildren, and that is why we have to intervene. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Stefan.]] Anyone who knows a little bit – I would like to hold on to that – knows that the long-term insured scheme, the so-called hackler scheme, was introduced under Chancellor Dr Wolfgang Schüssel. It has then been changed a thousand times, and the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned this. At each last session of the respective legislative period, social democracy comes into play and the money has been abolished. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] That was so in 2008, then you evaluated under a red German chancellor – perhaps someone else knows him: Werner Faymann, that was such a gray meled man – and at once you came up with it: More than 1.5 billion euros in the GP 2008 to 2013. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rainer Wimmer.]] So we have insisted that we need to change something, Mr Wimmer. Together with social democracy, we have negotiated and introduced a bonus malus system, with 4.2 percent reductions, because we wanted to keep people in employment longer, on the other hand, of course, there should be something left for our children and grandchildren. Federal Chancellor Faymann was there; I see colleagues who were there too – fortunately not in the same position as today, because at that time they still had government responsibility –: Doris Bures, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek and, of course, Alois Stöger. - Well, what do you say? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] And who was – I looked at – still in 2010? – At that time he was President of Vienna Austria, now he is President of the Trade Union Confederation. Now tell me what can be bad about a decision by which the current union president voted ten years ago! You have to explain that to me! And we will not abolish the hacker scheme, but we will bring it back to what it was before 1.1.2020, what we made up with you in 2010, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to clarify this for all the liberals, for all social democrats, for all friends in the Chamber of Workers, for all friends in the union: We will not abolish them! Anyone who has 45 years of contributions, that is 540 months of contributions, can retire at 62, of course with cancellations, but – Gust Wöginger has said it – with a bonus with which we also take women into account this time, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Worm: Yes, yes!]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We want a fair pension system, for which we stand, and we will implement it, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22153	Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22175	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! I have to start with you, ladies and gentlemen, because I do not understand why you are using this important topic in order to push on and join the farmers, since the fact is that farmers too have long been the sufferers of this missing turquoise policy in this country. You don't have to go back there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, if you look out here with a grinser in your face and talk about the fact that, if Members are committed to preventing the attack you are planning on the hard-working people in this country, that would have the entertainment value, then this is the last-class thing. But apparently there are two worlds in this country. There is on the one hand the world of hardworking workers and employees. These are those who keep our social system alive and running, ladies and gentlemen. These are those who have worked partly throughout the 1970s. These are the ones that we owe to Austria that our country stands as it stands. And no matter what industry or professional group, ladies and gentlemen, these are the hard-working people who have worked for their lives. This is the real world on this side. These are those who have paid for 45 years. And 45 years are enough, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there is the second world, a kind of parallel world, the real problem, ladies and gentlemen. In it those who believe they are above things. In it, those who consider the diligent Austrians not only to be their own body during the Covid crisis, but also apparently to be working slaves, who can be exploited in order to maintain our social system. I speak of the turquoise-green government, ladies and gentlemen, of the turquoise-green government politicians, the privileged, those who believe they are something better, something better than the diligent hacker, better and higher than the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber]] – These are short, blossoms and colleagues of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is an incredible assumption!]] These are the ones that consume at their friend Martin Ho luxury, sushi and co, while many in real life do not even know how to buy basic foods. Then such articles are published – I quote –: “Szene-Gastronster Martin Ho received [...] 60,000 euros from ÖVP in 2018”. For a party in a narrow circle on the occasion of 100 days of government, the party spent more than 26,000 euros! – This is the abolished world of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Pfurtscheller and Gabriela Schwarz.]] 26 000 euros – one night you spend more than a worker, a hacker, an employee partially earns in a whole year. So up-to-date and so unreality-like you are, ladies and gentlemen! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If I am already removed and non-reality, then this is a good word, because then I am already with the Greens: as a parade example, Mrs Maurer, who has been acting as an moral authority here in Parliament for a few weeks. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: It's me too!]] This is the colleague, who doesn't know all of Austria because of her great performance as a clubwoman, but because of a photo: showing with one hand the Stinkefinger, holding the champagne glass with the second hand. Bravo! Champagne! – This shows your attitude to performance in this country, that is your world. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You no longer know the real world on your high political rose. Mrs Maurer – and this is the problem – cannot grasp what 45 years of contributions and years of work are. Probably it can grow 100 years old and does not reach 45 years. That's the problem, why you're going over here so much about the population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is no longer a parallel world, ladies and gentlemen, which is almost a crack in the matrix. They move in an invisible parallel universe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] ==References====External links== Century, turquoise-green pension robbers! That's the truth. They just don't understand what it's like to work and create a lifetime. They do not understand what it means to pay health insurance contributions for a lifetime and then wait for months for a necessary treatment or now not to be treated for covid because of the government's measures, even though the health insurance contributions have been paid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They do not understand what it is like to pay excessive taxes and no longer find incomes with their incomes, so that government politicians from Turquoise Green send hundreds of millions abroad and to the EU. Because you're so realistic, you don't understand what it's like when you get into the pockets of the hard-working people in this country and attack the pension and thus take the outlook for the future. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is, in a democracy everything the politician wants to finance – everything. If you take a decent pension for the diligent, you don't take them because you can't finance them, then you take them because you want to take them. As the Greens also addressed the gap between women's and men's pensions: It is not fair, ladies and gentlemen, to reduce this gap by shortening the pensions to men. It's fair if you increase pensions for women and if they count child care, because only then do the women have some of it. This has been through the population for a long time, save your pocket-player tricks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you go here at the same time and over half a billion euros of tax money – over 500 million euros of tax money! – which is not They have produced, Mr. Kurz, or the honourable gentlemen and ladies of the Greens, but those against which you are now going to put money out of their pocket, discard the EU and send it abroad, then this is a revelation, a revelation silk, which is there: It is important for them to use the Austrian tax money for the EU, for immigration and for foreign aid, than to help their own people in this country in this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, this distinguishes us. We liberals are the only workers' party to set priorities on this issue, the only ones who are honest about the fact that the domestic hard-working workers are more important to us than the EU and immigration. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Rainer Wimmer and Mr Stögmüller]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Our freedom is clear: hard-working Austrians first! In terms of language, one could say: The shirt is closer to us than the skirt. It needs fair pensions that pay off. 45 years are enough, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22331	Mr Disoski spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22355	Mr President. I am actually correcting according to § 58 (1): Mr Schnedlitz just said that the green clubwoman Sigi Maurer had posed as an expression of her mental attitude with a champagne glass and showed the stinkle finger. [[Abg. Kickl: That was Prosecco, wasn't it?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ:... Prosecco!]] - That's not true. I'm actually correcting: Ms Maurer has shown the middle finger because of many news they have received on social media, the violent fantasies that rape fantasies have expressed to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22408	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22429	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In the context of the discussion on a discount-free hacker scheme or long-term insurance scheme, as it actually means, whether yes or no, is being held again and again and again and again today, please do not split, but please do not lead the women against the men into the field when it comes to hackers' pension. No, you don't have to. It is not only women who fall around the hackler board, it also happens insanely many men around the hackler board. There are a lot of men, the majority of men, who pay contributions that work here, who live here in this country, not to the benefit of a hacker scheme. They have no chance of doing so because the working world has changed in recent years and decades – we all know – so that practically the possibility of a continuous career, which actually allows 45 years of contribution, is given for almost no one, whether male or female, but especially for women. And no, it's not playing! It's not a play, it's about justice. It is about justice in this pension system for men and women! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What really bothered me during this discussion: It is insanely much of the hardworking and decent and of the people in this country who are addressing, the talk – and always in connection with those who have made 45 years of contributions here. This is not the reality of life of most of the hardworking people in this country who work here. The reality of life is quite another. The pension scheme is not only available for those who make 45 years of contributions. It is also there for those who do 35 years of contributions, who do 30 years of contributions or do not even do so because they are often affected by unemployment because they lose their jobs because they have to be re-trained because they have to change jobs because they have children to care for because they have to care for because they are sick. They do not create these 45 years, and our claim to a pension system is that it offers all workers, all people in this country an age in dignity and justice, and that is now far too little! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When we talk about justice, we talk about the real existing pensions in this country! I brought you a table that will illustrate how the situation of pensioners was in 2019. [[The speaker holds a panel on which a column diagram can be seen under the heading “Compare Pensions New”.]] On the left you will see the women's pensions: 1 035 Euro average pension gross per month. The poverty risk threshold is known to be 1 200 euros. All pensions, i.e. statutory pensions for men and women, are an average of EUR 1 313 in 2019. And here you see those who have a long-term insured pension: On average, the discount rate is now 2 845 euros in the first half of the year. Long-term insured pensions are more than two and a half times as high as the lowest female pension. And this isn't about envy. It's about numbers, it's about realities, it's about justice – it's also about justice for those who work only 35 years, pay, work, because everyone who works only 30 years or shorter, they also have a right to a fair pension. Those people who have started their working life at the age of 15, 16 who have had children at the age of 20 who have lost their job, who had to give up their job, who had to change the job, also those people have earned a right to fairness, they have earned a right to fair pensions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will have to ask ourselves the question and ask whether it is fair and fair if a large proportion of the tax resources are used to co-finance high pensions. Do not misunderstand: This is perfectly correct because people have long periods of insurance, because they have made contributions for a long time, yes, they should get their high pensions, that is perfectly fine, that is totally fair, and they should also be able to retire with 45 years of contribution, completely okay. No one is talking about it, no one wants to abolish it – some may want to abolish it – but one will have to talk about whether it is fair that a good part of the means of taxation, the additional means of taxation, flows in there. We say that we find it fairer if the people who actually have long periods of training and early training who have started to work early, who are equally capable of doing in this country, even if they do not create the 45 years, precisely because of the realities in the working world, even if these people have a corresponding appreciation, not appreciation, a corresponding reward, because they are entitled to them. And who says that 60 euros a month, 840 euros a year for a woman with a pension of 1.035 euros is a alms that or that has of distribution justice, has not understood anything of justice in this country! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is not true, if you put in place measures in the pension area that you find incredible approval and enthusiasm, but I have already been very pleased that a really recognized pension expert in this country, namely Christine Mayrhuber of the Wifo, was quoted yesterday in the “standard” with the words that she finds the early starter bonus very “interesting”, especially because the hackers are finally “defined”: “These are the ones who have done an early training, regardless of the duration of insurance. It also says – Mr President Hofer is unfortunately not here now –: This early starter bonus is “a targeted antidote to old age poverty, ”“ which primarily helps women. ” [[Abg. Loacker: That's probably wrong!]] Then we are probably on the right side, especially when Mr Loacker says we are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22509	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22535	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It is about a planned change in the pension system, and you know that we NEOS always have a very, very clear attitude. This clear attitude is often misinterpreted and, I would also suggest, quite deliberately misinterpreted. That is why I would like to clarify one thing in advance: We are not, and we were never concerned about taking away pensioners. My grandmother is 85 years old, she raised three children, worked all her life. There is probably no one to whom I like more than her – or people like her – a good pension. I therefore take it personally, if, as we do today, certain Members in the House of Lords and on a flat-rate basis blame us for not doing anything to the elderly. This is a death-beat argument of those who make populist politics and no longer have any arguments and therefore work with such “arguments” here. We give every pensioner and every pensioner a good pension, but we also give every worker and the young people in this country that they will once get a pension from which they can live. We want a secure pension system, we want a sustainable and a generation-friendly pension system: it's safe to support those pensioners who really need special help – I'm going to come to the point of not doing this right now – by not wasting the money of those who have to pay it, just like today for populist election gifts; and generation-friendly by fundamentally renewing this system that no longer works – pension automaticism. My colleague Gerald Loacker has already said that what is being held here today by SPÖ and FPÖ is a policy for the top ten thousand of the pension system. Why? – There are 100 000 pensioners each year, and SPÖ and FPÖ want to receive an even higher pension with the exemption. The average pension is 1,200 euros. The average pension is 2 600 euros for those who go into retirement in favour of the discount-free early pension. That's just not perfect. However, ÖVP and greens are not better. What we are now presented is another expensive pension scheme, as the discount-free early pension is replaced by another expensive pension scheme, all at the expense of the next generation, the subsequent generations. We know that the risk of poverty is particularly high among young people, and the share among these is higher than among pensioners. The economist Bernhard Hammer regularly points out that pensioner households are not the most vulnerable, but especially young families. The risk of poverty in pensioners' households is about 15 per cent, young families by 21 per cent and single parents by over 30 per cent. While pensions have been increasing regularly for four years with limited social confidence over inflation, the government is pouring young families with bureaucracy and throwing them into the legs. On the other hand, in order to put the whole thing in a very current context, schools and kindergartens are closed and the Family Hard Fund is also made up of a maximum of bureaucracy. So you not only run a cynical pension policy on the back of young people, you also operate a cynical family policy, especially for young families. Now I would like to address another point, which, I believe, has been raised by Mr von der SPÖ, namely the luxury pensions. In the Pension Adjustment Act, which was adopted today, you have forgotten when covering the pension adjustment to the luxury pensions. You have to imagine this: While the pension increase is limited by 35 euros for the former chauffeur of old Chancellor Franz Vranitzky, Franz Vranitzky will grant a pension increase of 450 euros at a monthly pension of 30 000 euros! You forgot, that's really inconceivable. This is not accurate, non-sustainable and non-generational. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Finally, I would like to discuss this whole subject with you in the context of the Corona crisis. In your statement on the situation of the nation, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you said that a group was particularly hard hit by the measures to curb the corona crisis, and you called the older generation. As much as that is true as regards the health risks of an infection, this assessment of the numerous consequences of the pandemic on the labour market, the social state and our education system is wrong. The young people are experiencing a multiple crisis, as I would say. On the one hand, they are also particularly hard hit by the Corona crisis, perhaps not directly in health by a coronary infection, but by the health-related collated damage. We know from a comprehensive study of the Faculty of Psychology of the University of Vienna that – quote – extreme values are found in the group of adults between 20 and 30 years of age, and a recently published study shows that people over 65 years of age are the best by far through the crisis, whereas young adults have shown a strikingly high burden since the beginning of the crisis. The causes for this are diverse and individually very different. They range, for example, from concerns about health and future fears to fear of job loss and loneliness. On the one hand, this group has been particularly hard hit by the Corona crisis, on the other hand, it is also meeting the debt crisis that has existed for a very long time, particularly hard, because the young people also have to learn the billions we are spending at some point. Thirdly, however, they will also be particularly hard hit – we will still be discussing this during the budget week – because the Corona crisis puts other crises in the background. Otherwise, when it was said today, no one talks about the climate crisis anymore, it no longer plays a role in the budget at all. No one is talking about the crisis of our corrupt social system, and no one is talking about an acute educational crisis, which was once again greatly aggravated by Corona. I wish I could and I ask you not to forget the young people in our debate and that we do not produce a new crisis of the young in the course of dealing with the Corona crisis, whose consequences for our country would be disastrous.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22611	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22638	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! The so-called hackler scheme or long-term insurance scheme concerns people who have worked for 45 years and actually 47 years and have probably given most of their physical and mental health for their job. Just these performers take something away from their hard-earned pension now. Do you really view 45 years of hard work as a privilege? 45 years of contributions are not a gift. This is a long time and these are hard-earned contributions. I have to say, I've been really upset in the last few days. When you reintroduced the discount-free pension shortly before the last National Council election, you voted in favour of it by the ÖVP in the third reading; in the meantime this has also been clarified. But why did you vote in favour? – Obviously, this was only meant as a catch of votes and as nothing else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl: No, no! ... you still don't understand?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Now you want to abolish this long-term insured scheme from the ÖVP and also the greens, whose true face can be seen very slowly, and to reintroduce them again – simply so, silent and quiet, very soft, without discussion in the Committee, although the Greens will always hear how important democracy and discussions are to them; obviously not in this case. They do this in the hope that this will be done in the current budget debate or in the course of the lockdown, but I say it quite clearly: This is about robbing the pension. Now the men with the argument that no woman can use this scheme to rob up to 300 euros a month is really bottom drawer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Gödl.]] But taking away from men a little bit does not bring women a cent anymore, and I would like to stress once again for those who have not yet understood it: Women can retire free of charge at 60 because this is their regular pension age. This early starter bonus is an absolute fake, because 60 euros a month never compensate for what is being subtracted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl: Ha ha!]] If the Federal Government's equality policy means that everyone should always be lowered to the lowest level, then I see social security in Austria as a massive threat. In addition to this, women would benefit from this discount-free pension by increasing the retirement age in the future. How about measures that really bring women something? Fairly, it would be possible to improve the accounting of child care periods. Fairly, it would be a abolition of wage differences, which still account for a third, and it would be fair to remove women from part-time care in Austria by means of comprehensive childcare. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] These measures could change a little, but the abolition of the discount-free pension is a purely political calculation, because once performance providers are employees, they are obviously no longer worth to the EIA and to the Greens, on the contrary. But there will always be money for corporations, for super-rich and for large farmers. [[Call: Leave the farmers alone once]] It is about saying who we are making policy for – the ÖVP obviously only for these clients: Group, rich and large farmers. The workers are no longer present, they are only asked to check out, and therefore: after 45 years of contribution, a discount-free pension! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22740	Mr Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22761	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Thank God this discussion has calmed down a little, because that's not so good for your blood pressure, I have to say. This discussion is about the abolition of the so-called hackler regime. As we have heard more often today, it has not actually deserved this name, but it seems to be a regulation which the SPÖ considers fair, otherwise we would not be there today. On this fairness, I would like to address this socialist fairness a little closer. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Drozda.]] You, Mr Muchitsch, have always argued that 45 years are enough. It's right, 45 years are really a long time, but I don't know if it's justified that you retire early without deposits, especially since this brings a disadvantage to the next generations. Is that socialist fairness? – It seems to be yours, it's not ours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The discount-free long-term insurance scheme was introduced by 1.1.2020. Before that, it could not be used. Discounts of 4.2 percent had to be purchased. Now I'm wondering, Is it a game of luck when you were born, whether 1947 or 1948? – The SPÖ clearly sees it as it is, we don't see it that way. The discount-free long-term insurance scheme can be used from 62 years of age, i.e. virtually no woman benefits from this discount-free long-term insurance scheme. I think it's a bit funny that the SPÖ is that you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, are being so evocative that this so-called pension gap between women and men is increasing. You're contributing to that! Last year, in 2019, this pension gap was 51 percent, and now it rises to an incredible 67 percent. Is that your socialist fairness, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek? - It's definitely not ours. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the last point regarding fairness: The current pensions, so to speak, are almost 400 euros higher per month, compared to already high pensions. [[Call:Saury! That's a sourry.]] It's funny that the SPÖ finds this fair, we don't find it fair either. As a matter of principle, ladies and gentlemen, the parties used to agree that at least the actual entry age needs to be adapted, and under your Minister Hundstorfer – name it as you want it to be abolished or whether he has introduced a bonus malus system – there was no longer this discount-free long-term insurance scheme; and it is good that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] You introduce this – I can't explain it honestly – and you'll get rid of it again. I can't explain this to myself, and I don't think it's fair to your former minister either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of this non-returnable long-term insurance scheme – I am really trying not to mention the word hackler regulation – is exactly the right step. We owe it to all pensioners – including those who will become such in the future – that they can go into a deserved and secure pension. That is why we must close all the back doors that can lead to such an early retirement. [[Abg. Belakovich: Get less!]] I can, honestly, live to see that we introduce an early starter bonus in return because we are upgrading the teaching – and this is really very important for this location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear SPÖ and, honestly, also dear FPÖ! Erich Kästner already said: “There is nothing good / except: You do it.” – Therefore, be aware of your responsibility! Stop with this threaded rhetoric! Get out of here and secure a sustainable pension system with us! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear NEOS, a word also to you, because you are always acting as a representative of a sustainable pension system: This coalition pact with the SPÖ in Vienna, this red and pink coalition pact, did not even seem to mention the word pension reform, has not mentioned this long-term approximation of civil servants' pensions to those of the federal government. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Brandstötter and Shetty]] Quite frankly, because Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, who is not here now, says again and again that the Greens should no longer take the word 'education' into their mouths: Please don't take the word pension reform into your mouth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22869	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e22891	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot today, but if I may briefly replicate your remarks, Mrs Niss, on what you have just explained why the situation between men and women is so unfair – that is what I say as a conclusion: Yeah, let's just give it a little less, then there's no difference, so let's get it all down. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] If this is the way of the ÖVP, I say with full pride: We're not there. When you hear that these are the high pensions and those that ever have so much: They have neither stolen it nor received it, but they have worked it out, and therefore they have earned these pensions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Yeah, it's got to make a difference. I wonder, Where is your service justice and your entitlement to benefits? You do not give any more incentive to go to work longer and to do more if you say now to the people who have actually paid 45 years, who have received this country and this system over 45 years of age: I'm sorry, we don't want to do this anymore, now we're doing something different, because now something new comes because the Federal Chancellor can then hold a press conference again. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöginger is not here, Mrs Maurer is not here, because they have already held a press conference on this very subject today, in which they have announced great and full-bodied that the early starter bonus will come: The early starter bonus is given when you have started working between 15 and 20 years of age and you have made at least 25 years of insurance contributions. – Interestingly, only obviously the two rulers did not read the small print, because the Federal Chancellor said something quite different here some time ago, because he said that one had to work 45 years. So Mr Wöginger and Mrs Maurer are obviously back on a list of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, because they did not know what it really was about. Mrs Maurer is, by the way, a very special activity, because she is not at all familiar with the pension system. I wonder what Mr Oellinger thinks if he is watching his successor party on television today. Perhaps, colleagues from the ÖVP, you can see that Director-General Pinggera of Mr Wöginger's friend gives a quick-seated course in the pension system, so that Mrs Maurer has a little idea before she comes to the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] And if it says that it's all so expensive, we can't afford it because we have to make the pension system sustainable: I would just like to draw attention to the fact that your “Look at you, look at me” campaign cost 20 million euros – 20 million euros! – this is about half of what the hacker board costs. These 20 million euros would be better removed from the workers than in your comic campaigns, which will bring nothing and just put the money to any EIA-near agencies. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They are working together with the Greens, with the Greens who are positioning themselves as a new workers' betrayal party, who are not doing anything for the workers at all here. [[Rejoicing and contradiction with Green MEPs]] This is social reduction in pure culture that we are experiencing here today. The first thing that's being dismantled is hacker's board. But we have been introduced by the Minister of Labour last week. It's always nice that she's here – I'm glad I think that's great – unlike the Minister of Social Affairs. It might also be interested in it, it is its subject area, but it does not even interest him to come here. [[Abg. Loacker: He doesn't know himself anyway!]] At that time, we decided on the special care periods, and the Minister of Agriculture has still stood up in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and said: This is true when the lockdown comes and the schools are coming! – Mr. Bundeskanzler presented himself on Saturday and said: The schools are too, but the special care time is not valid now because the schools offer care! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] – This is the next shame that this ÖVP has imposed on the Austrians. There you leave the mothers at home, and you leave the families in the lurch. That's this whole game of the ÖVP. It passes through like a red thread, going from beginning to end. This started in March. At that time you said: Yes, we can't apply the epidemic law because we don't close the shops, there's only a ban. – It is constantly being tricked and deceived, ladies and gentlemen, and the citizens outside are already so uncertain because they do not know how it will continue. What is next, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? You'd have had the opportunity to announce it today! – Further social reduction, that’s it. This is because you do not know how you can finance this crisis in which the EIA and the Greens have thrown our country together at all. They have led our country into this crisis – and they have to bathe out and pay for it now the little people outside. This must be done by the worker, by the employee, by the entrepreneurs, by those who go to work who pay the taxes, and by those who pay contributions. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There is nothing to expect from this federal government. There is no help at all to be expected, because the Federal Chancellor has had nothing else to do but increase his representation budget – and this in times of crisis. At the same time – since we are negotiating the budget today – this Federal Government has reduced the health budget for the next year. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It's gone down. Well, that's a great crisis management! People are told that our health system is at its limits. What's the result? – Money in the health sector is reduced. This is the policy of the ÖVP, but this is not the policy that citizens need outside – certainly not, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! It will be the day when all the citizens outside will see what has actually happened here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] It's not about protecting any human life. That's what you're proposing, that's your killing argument. They're about total surveillance. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They are concerned with the reconstruction of the state and you are concerned solely with the preservation of power. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor is not directed by hospital numbers or by bedding in hospitals, but rather by his polls – and that is the disgraceful one. And that's why Austria looks like it looks, that's why the economy has run against the wall, so we have the highest unemployment in the Second Republic, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP, and that's why you're running social reduction now. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Lively cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] – And you find this fun from the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] People outside don't know how to pay for their food. – There comes the big poverty law: 8 euros a month. Families can then decide whether to heat up the money, buy food for their children, or whether to starve or freeze the children. This is ÖVP 2020.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23037	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23062	Mr President! I'm actually correcting: In her speech, Mrs Niss said that the SPÖ had then reintroduced the hacker scheme. – Although some do not want to be true, the hackler regulation has also been reintroduced with the votes of the ÖVP under party chair Sebastian Kurz, under Klubobmann Wöginger, who voted in favour. - Thank you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – That’s the fact, maybe you should look her in the eye.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23095	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23116	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! After Mrs Belakovich's very emotional speech, I should like to return to a calmer frame of mind and to make the debate a little bit clumsy. I start with a personal comment – many here probably do not know at all –: I'm a hackler's child. My parents were hackers, my aunts and uncles were hackers, their friends, whose acquaintances were hackers in the truest sense of word, who have worked physically hard and hard, for example in construction, factories, in the steel and chemical industry or in commerce. [[Abg. Worm: They're really disappointed now, aren't they?]] Many of them have been shamed for their work, really paid little, but paid for it at the same time as their health. Early incapacity for work – as a health condition – was the case. In the run-up to this debate today in the environment that I have just outlined, I have heard something about it, and should I say something to you? – I did not find a single person among all these hackers who would have benefited only a single cent from the long-term discount-free insurance scheme. Not a single person! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Why?]] Why? Why is that so? – Simple: Because the discount-free long-term insurance scheme mainly benefits men, not the hackers, as I have just outlined them, but those with the highest pensions in the statutory pension system. [[Call the FPÖ: Did you just ask women?]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the basis of your urgent request, Mr Wimmer, colleague Heinisch-Hosek and colleague Muchitsch, please write – I quote –: ‘The alleged argument that women would not benefit from this discount-free pension [...] is not at all true.’ This is not a supposed argument, which is statistical evidence, ladies and gentlemen: Women do not benefit from this discount-free scheme. In the first half of the year – we have already heard the number – a total of 7 257 men have used this scheme – and a woman. A woman and 7 257 men! This is not a supposed argument, this is statistical evidence, take note! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Write in this statement of grounds for application You continue: “Women do not benefit from NOCH.” They then point out that, as a result of this gradual adjustment of the age of women's pensions, women would also benefit from this discount-free long-term insurance scheme, even because child rearing would be calculated to the extent of five years. – That may be true in theory, but unfortunately only hold in theory. They know for sure that men currently come on average to 35 years of contributions, women to 27.5. If I now count on five years of childhood education, then I come to 40 for men and 32,5 for women. 45 years of contributions, which is unattainable in a distance – because of child training periods that come in between, because of job interruptions, because of unemployment and the like – is unattainable! We Greens have always seen freedom of movement for distribution and gender reasons very critical. We can also say that we were definitely not there when this was decided. We have always seen this critically, especially because in practice men with an already above-average pension benefit from it. That is why we are now introducing the early starter bonus, with which a much wider number of people will benefit than before: Four times as many people, 60 euros per month, 840 euros per year – this leads to more distribution justice, which leads to more sexual justice, and that is well and urgently necessary. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Muchitsch, you claimed in the morning that we would play out with the new rules against men. I need you to explain this to me, please. In your opinion, Mr Muchitsch, we are playing against men if we are out of a regime that has been exclusively exclusive. – has brought benefits to men, such as those from whom women and men benefit equally? Who are we playing against each other, please? You have to explain that to me. Please explain this to me! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Before choosing whether we want to continue a privilege of few men, or whether we are spending the means used to combat poverty in order to increase low pensions, we decide very clearly and clearly for the fight against old age poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23207	Next speaker: Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23231	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! Child labour has been abolished in Austria thanks to God for a long time. The question is: When would a woman who was sent to retirement at the age of 60 have to start working to enjoy a discount-free early pension? Ten years old? At 12 years of age? If a woman might have started working right after the folk school, then it could just go out, but only if she had not spent too much time in child care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] You think that's an absurd game of thought? . I think that rather shows how absurd this debate about early retirement gifts is. Early retirement does not help the people threatened by poverty, it does nothing to secure prosperity, it does not solve any of the problems of our pension system. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Worm]] This early board is a gift to those who had the happiness of a continuous and straight career career, and it is a gift to men. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lord]] [[Abg. Drozda: A gift, yes!]] Women, as we have heard several times today – but we cannot stress it often enough – do not benefit from this regulation. Women are sent to pension sooner, whether they want to or not. At present, women's retirement age is five years lower than men's, but only one year longer would increase the pension of women by up to 9 percent – that's nothing. Women are thus given the opportunity to improve their pension once more with a better salary at the end of their career. What happens instead? – Women are sent to poverty, while on the other hand billionaires are distributed gifts. There are hard numbers – we've heard them several times today, but you can't stress them often enough –: In the first half of 2020, 8 033 people took advantage of the early retirement pension, one of them being a woman. That's not surprising either, because we live in a man's world. There are two trade unionists who invented the discount-free men's breakfast: Beppo Muchich and Rainer Wimmer, two men who lead a club whose members consist of two thirds men who have eight officers in the eight ÖGB units, seven of whom are men in turn. So, as SPÖ women were able to agree to this insanity package, I'm totally sluggish. The Gender Pension Gap has been dramatic so far, we have heard that today. As a result of this misunderstanding, it has now increased from 51 percent in the last year to inconceivable 67 percent this year, so exponential growth is also here. Another number that can't be called often enough: The average amount of these 8 033 early pensions is 2 900 euros gross 14 times a year. So I welcome it if this misjudgment is corrected today, but we come from the rain into the grape: Now comes the early starter bonus. We don't know much about it yet, we only know the marketing flossels, and one of these flossels is that this early starter bonus would be feminist. Quite honest: Just because one writes vegan, guarantees gluten-free, seasonal, regional, organic and animal welfare, their content is not yet. Just because you write feminist about a project, it's not feminist yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] This early starter bonus – according to what we now know about it – seems to be based once again only on the expensive casting pot principle, without any social confidence. Once again, the greens have been pulled over the table, and I can really only advise any provider of coffee rides to invite the Green Club to a bus ride. You buy not only a heating blanket, but two, because you think it contributes twice to social warmth.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23299	Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23323	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! – The Federal Chancellor is not present when a urgent person is put on him. – At the last Committee, Mr Loacker said to me that Mr Keck spoke in a row. – No, I don’t have, but for this I do today; today, because I really have to listen to the pensions all week long about the media, and I say it here with all clarity and clarity, a ugliness that seeks to be the same; a nonsense, ladies and gentlemen, when this early starter bonus, which has been quoted so often here, addressed -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23338	Mr Keck! I have been following the debate since 3 p.m. and, of course, I have noticed that this is a very emotional debate, and I can well understand it. I would Nevertheless, they are asking to take back the word “weakness ” and, in spite of the emotions that I can understand well, to moderate in tone. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23369	I do not take it back, Madam President. I'll stay with you because it's--
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23392	Then I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23422	Thank you, Madam President. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what does the early starter bonus say? – That’s what it means, all the people from 15 to 20 years old. Work year, get 60 euros, because it helps women because women are disadvantaged. This was also heard in many speeches today. If I then look at 32.9% of compulsory school leavers going into working life and of those 32.9% of compulsory school leavers who enter work are 89 percent men, then it becomes clear that the whole discussion that is going on is not at all true. With this early starter bonus one does not help women, but one takes away money from the men who start working with 15 who actually need 47 years of work. According to the pension systems that we now have, they are taken away from money and given them an alms of 60 euros. That's all that comes out, ladies and gentlemen, nothing else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I look at how the amount of pensions is discussed here, I can only say one thing: If someone wants a high pension, then he's supposed to go to the blast furnace, then he's supposed to go to a foundry! Then he gets all the supplements that increase his pension: Then he has night work supplements that increase his pension, then he has overtime supplements that increase his pension, and then he has shift work supplements that increase his pension. That is why these people have a high pension: because they have worked hard for their lives, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] To really steal money from these people is, from my point of view, a thing that seeks to do the same. I haven't experienced this in this house yet, what is happening here right now! Then, ladies and gentlemen, one hears that this is an appreciation of the doctrine – a sensational one! An appreciation of the teaching if you take away 400 euros from someone at the end of your professional life and give 60 euros if he goes into the teaching: Where's that an upgrade? – Everyone will consider making a teaching because he knows that at the end of his professional life money will be stolen, ladies and gentlemen! That's what's happening here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's talk about fairness in the pension system! – Ladies and gentlemen, I now bring the numbers that should be discussed. If you want a fair pension system, you also have to correct numbers. Let's take a look at this: There are currently 1.98 million pensioners in the ASVG system, there are 35 000 in the VAEB – in the area of railways and mining – there are 195,000 self-employed social insurance institutions and 168 000 people in pension at the farmers' social insurance institution. How do the grants look at The individual pensions out? – The PSA, i.e. for the ASVG insured, has EUR 3.7 billion of grants from the federal government. That is, these people pay 89 percent of their pensions themselves, ladies and gentlemen – 89 percent of the pensions pay themselves! What else can you get from grants? – Now I take together the SVA and the farmers’ social insurance institution, so I come to 363,840 people, and they get 3.5 billion euros each other in grants, ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about a fair pension! I would also like to have paid fair contributions from everyone to the pension system, then we can talk about a fair pension, but to those who pay fair contributions to take away something at the end of working life, ladies and gentlemen, that is something very objectionable!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23497	Mr Scherak spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23521	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Disoski has previously claimed that the Greens have always been critics of the drop-off early pension and have not been included in this decision. - That's not right. I'm actually correcting: In the decision on 19.9.2019 here in the National Council, the current Minister of Justice Alma Zadić – at the time for the Pilz list – was present and has agreed, and in the decision on 10.10.2019, the Federal Councillor of Stögmüller and the Federal Councillor Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic of course agreed. That's not the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23555	The next speaker was Mrs Claudia Plasolmzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23579	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let us remember a year ago, in the autumn of 2019: It was one of the last meetings here in Parliament shortly before the National Council election. There were countless requests on the agenda, a voting marathon and at this time a free play of forces. Like the Amen in prayer, at such meetings shortly before the end of the legislative period, expensive electoral sugar from SPÖ and FPÖ also comes to a decision – election sugar at the expense of the next generations, election sugar for which the bill must be paid and will only be paid later, and election sugar that did not help the SPÖ or FPÖ at the end of the day when we look at the election results in autumn 2019. [[Abg. Kollross:... responsible!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Were you there, too, Mrs. Plasolm? You were there too!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] With this quick-shoot action: the reintroduction of the non-returnable hackler control. What has this short-sighted decision taken by SPÖ and FPÖ? – to uncertainty and injustice – to uncertainty among all those who are just before the retirement, and to injustice against all those who have already retired and who have had to buy discounts for it, and above all to injustice against the next generations and the coming generations, because we and our children and grandchildren are the ones who have to pay all this once. Our debt backpack also becomes more and more difficult, especially in times like this. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The hacker scheme is not only an expensive electoral sugar, but also a generally favored and thus unfair form of early retirement, because discount-free in early retirement almost exclusively men go, and thus the pension shears between men and women are only further apart. In the first half of the year – we have already heard it – I would just like to repeat it once again – more than 7,200 men and only one woman benefited from the hackler scheme. As well as the hackler rule, this favoured form of early retirement, are police officers, and just in weeks like this one is already asking the question: Why are they out there? Maybe they didn't deserve it? [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But now to the positive: We are going to thank God ever older; the number of pensioners is increasing, while the number of persons in employment is falling. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] This is not a Hiobs message, this news is not surprising, but we have known this development for decades, and it has been quite right that access to the non-slip early board was made much more difficult in 2010 and 2014. We remember – even today this has already been liked: At that time there was a SPÖ Chancellor Werner Faymann and also the SPÖ ministers Bures and Heinisch-Hosek, and even ÖGB President Wolfgang Katzian voted in favour. At that time, the SPÖ was still concerned that the generation contract would not become a one-way road and that the balance could be kept halfway. At that time, the SPÖ was still concerned that outdated privileges should be abolished and fought against poverty of old age, especially women. Now it is about taking back this SPÖ zigzag course and the expensive election decision of September 2019 and ensuring more justice in the pension system. As a first step, we introduce an early starter bonus in the pension system, which is not about early starters, but about those who started working early, and above all, it benefits apprentices, as we have already heard. This is a much more just solution, because it is fairer to all professional groups and above all an appreciation of the teaching. It is fairer to women, because most of the time women have been de facto excluded from the hackler scheme. It is also fairer to the next generations, because this expensive electoral sugar is finally withdrawn. The SPÖ and FPÖ alliance wants to take short-sighted measures and ensure that there is an early retirement, while NEOS always mentions the single-fit pension system. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen of NEOS, you can convince your coalition partner in red-pink Vienna and start to abolish the incredible special pension privileges in Vienna as the first step. I believe that this will measure the coalition announced this week. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us as a People's Party is and remains clear: Those who have worked for their lives should receive a fair pension in the end. [[Call the SPÖ:... hacker control!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Everyone has worked hard and deserved his pension as well, and that is why we, in particular – and now you have to be careful – significantly raise the small pensions. For us as a People's Party, however, it is also just as obvious that all generations hold together and pull on one strand – disciples and older ones. It is of course that we hold together as a society in times of pandemic, in order to protect especially older people by staying at home and giving up a lot in these months. I would like this cohesion of all generations, this unwritten generation contract, if one can call it so, also here in Parliament and, above all, in our pension system. Do not decide what decision most voters make, but decide what is the best and fairest for all generations! [[Ah-Rufe at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23703	Mrs Nina Tomaselli will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23724	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Keck and the other colleagues from the Socialist Group, I do not think it is right what you are doing about the media today and also yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Seemayer.]] You're insecure the population, you're saying there's some poor people taking away something – point one – and you're talking about pension robbery, although you know very well: No cent is drawn from the pension system – quite the contrary: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] We're distributing fairer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also said to you, just because somewhere on the packaging is hackler, it is far from fair and it is far from socially fair. The fact is, in September 2019 you decided to add 35 million euros more each year into the pensions – you can make that as a decision – and at the same time you decided where to put these 35 million euros. They wanted to give it to those who already have over 2 400 euros of monthly gross pension 14 times a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] They wanted this group to get 400 euros more on average. You also knew quite well that the women do not benefit from this money, you knew that of these 35 million euros more in the system, the women do not get anything at all. And you also knew that the workers do not at all benefit greatly – and you are pension experts, I know – because you know that in reality most of the employees are employees and not hackers, as you always claim. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Simple: After all, they have forgotten exactly those who have unemployable times in their lives – that is, life-reality – because of care work, but that also happens because of job loss or illness and, and, and. All those in your scheme were no longer included in your 35 million euros. What we're doing now is just the opposite. We take the same money – please, that's important, it's not about robbing pensions – we take the same money and fairly share it: 60 euros a month for all those who have worked twelve months in pieces at the age of under 20 years, so all who are really hacking since the time of youth. From a discount-free pension, we make a real hacker scheme, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Whatever happens to me personally is if you're talking about columning or if you want to play women and men against each other. No, you don't want to! I would rather say that you did exactly that with this hackler arrangement in September 2019: They seem to distinguish between good hacklers and bad hacklers, who did not get together for 45 years – for whatever reason. [[Abg. Worm: Quickly learned from the ÖVP!]] What does that mean? What exactly does this mean for those concerned? – There are 20 percent more pension. They have taken out a group from the workers, they have said that these are the better ones, they get 20 percent more pension, that is simply fact, and I do not think that is socially fair or fair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, let me say: We can act as if the budget were endlessly large, but at the end of the day we have to decide what we are doing with the limited resources, that is our task here in Parliament. The colleague asked herself: Who are we doing politics for? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] And the question is: Do we make policy for the people who are more likely to receive higher pensions – once again to remember, we are talking about an average of 2 400 euros pension here, and it always means that there is enough left over – or do we make a fair pension policy for all? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher]] Yes, it was. Your decision in September 2019, which is to take note, but also note that there is now a new majority that sets new priorities. [[Abg. Worm: Unfortunately!]] I think that's a good thing, because anyone who works in youth wants to be sure that the amounts in old age pay off as well. This also applies to all and not only a small privileged group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23838	Mrs Cornelia Eckergeangt speaking as next speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23863	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! As the last speaker, I would like to explain in all detail what social democrats are about with regard to the abolition of the hackler regime, because there were now many speeches in this discussion – mainly they came from the ÖVP, unfortunately also from you, Mr Bundeskanzler – who simply and decisively did not agree with the truth. I would like to sum up once again: In 2019, the hackler scheme was decided by the votes of the ÖVP here in the Hohe Haus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] It was just before a National Council election. A year later, that is, after a successful election, the ÖVP now wants to abolish this important measure for the people of that country with the votes of the Greens. This is not only unsocial, ladies and gentlemen, but also nationally completely absurd. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With the abolition of the hackler scheme, ÖVP wants to set up the savings fund among those who like to call it performance providers of our society, so the broad mass of people should be asked here for cash. Mrs Tomaselli, if you are already addressing a fair pension, I ask: Why Grab hold You don't want to take the luxury pensions? I've already asked you this from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This procedure shows a very clear commitment to who, from this point of view, should also finance this crisis from the point of view of the EIA: the workers. And we don't like that. Notable experts co-port that this abolition is to bring 30 to 40 million euros annually. Let's draw this picture again! Today, the comparison has often been made in the discussions, but it shows a good picture of how the policy of the ÖVP looks in this House: 30 to 40 million will bring us virtually the abolition of the hacker scheme, and the abolition of the sparkling wine tax will reduce the revenue of 26 million euros for the state budget. This is the picture I want to draw here: This is how ÖVP makes politics. When it comes to their own clients, losses are taken from the ÖVP. In these difficult times, even during this lockdown, ÖVP and Greens are taking advantage of the money of hardworking people in this country. People want to cut down pensions – at the time when every cent is to flow into consumption, in that time when every cent is needed, and in that time when unemployment is highest. This is a rupture of the economy, ladies and gentlemen. The argument that you want to implement the abolition of the hacker regime only because it is unfair to us women, I do not entirely let it apply. We know not later than yesterday what the powerful in the ÖVP really think about us women. They would like to “put one” on us – one if we were to express criticism and not join the narrow-minded EIA world view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is already significant and, in fact, a groundless fragility that has not been brought here today by the ÖVP and addressed this spokesman of the former President of the National Council Khol. [[Abg. Zarits: He apologized!]] I find that really embarrassing, dear ladies of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) After 45 years of hard work on construction, in industry, as a spengler, as an electrician, as butchers, many people are physically finished, many people can no longer exercise their profession at all. Mr Bundeskanzler – Mr Bundeskanzler!; he just speaks and doesn't want to listen to me, but please, Mr. Wöinger, judge it to him! –, I cordially invite you: [[Federal Chancellor Kurz talks to Abg. Cannon]] Come to my company, come to our butchery! For a day, work with our people so that you can take a picture of what is done in such a business in your young years! You can't compare that to an office job. In this sense, I ask you for the hard working people in this country: Rethinking Once again, consider abolishing the hacker scheme!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23939	Mr Maximilian Lercher is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e23964	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me perhaps make two preliminary remarks before we get into the debate. Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not think it is good for you to smile today after Mr Wimmer's speech and put it somewhere in your remarks that he had played here. Mr Wimmer has one thing we so often miss in your policy: Empathy – Empathy for workers in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why he's so excited. Also allow me a second comment, which is incredibly important to me personally: Please, don't take the name Rudolf Hundstorfer in your mouth when you argue, because I know he certainly wouldn't have stood on your side during this debate! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Niss: But it is!]] I think I think that's useless. Please, leave the dead alone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the debate, to what we decide here today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We decide today to make the net payers worse in our pension system. After what you decide here today, the members of the Federal Government, when they are 65 years old, will retire with 35, 40 years of contribution, but the workers who have hacked for 47 years will retire at 62 years with deposits. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] That's what we decide here today. We are going against all those who have already given so much today. We're going against those who are net payers today. Today we are going against people like my father, who has worked at the age of 15, first as an auxiliary worker, then as a mixed car driver, then as a bus driver who has paid for 47 years, who is far away from the 2,400 euros you are talking about. Is he a luxury pensioner? You want to cut the pension today? You've given too much to people like that, don't you think? You're making it fairer now by taking something away from such people? – That’s not fair, that’s a chuzpe, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] You, Federal Chancellor, rightly speak of new justice, of the fact that the employee must not be stupid. But what does this new justice mean? – It means that we have billions for the AUA and your donors, but no millions for the workers in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Gender equality, according to your definition, seems to mean that we make the men worse. That's the new justice you're talking about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] You argue in your new justice that no one has to pay for this crisis – except the ASVGs. That is to say, the ASVGlers, the diligent, all those people who wear this system have become the milk cows of your responsible policy. These people pay for what you spend. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Dear Mr. Wöinger! The ÖAAB has given up, de facto no longer has the right to exist since today. Many of your disciples are already doing this underground and are calling for this policy to stop. And despite all your beautiful rhetoric, I tell you one thing: You'll remember that! The ÖVP was involved in a good regulation – and is now out of political calculation against the real performance providers. At the end of your remarks, Mr Wöinger, you said: They now receive the recognition with the 60 euros. – It’s not about recognition, it’s about people getting what they’re doing, and not about any recognition you’re talking about! It is about creating a system that produces real performance justice, and it is certainly not by taking away people who have paid contributions for 47 years. This is not the justice we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] To the Greens, perhaps a short comment: The Waldorf School is not enough as an educational expertise for a pension reform. That's not going to work out. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Bravo!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] In view of your entire argument today, I would suggest to you, Mrs Maurer, that you meet with someone who really worked, because the industrial expert – that's not you! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] I'll tell you one thing: What is happening here today is not a question of political ability, it is a question of political will, and you do not have this will! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24101	A second word reported: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24122	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Waldorfschulmathematics came to my mind a little bit in a very common comparison of the social democrats, namely this very slant with the sparkling wine tax. So if you always put the cost of the discount-free early board against the sparkling wine tax, then the Waldorf mathematically would work like this: You buy a sect board and get a sect paper every year, then in case of an average length of stay of the sect paper in your basement of 23 years, if you tax it again every year, the comparison would be correct. But that's not how the sect tax works. – You didn’t understand, but maybe you understand now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24155	There is now no mention of this in the word. That concludes this debate. I ask the clubmen whether we can go into the voting process immediately. - Yes. So I'll do that. We come to the vote on the self-employed motion 993/A(E) by Mr Rainer Wimmer, colleagues and colleagues on "The conclusion with the social errors of this Federal Government – the discount-free pension must remain after 45 years of work!" I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the request for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich, ladies and gentlemen, on the maintenance and adaptation of non-refundable pensions with 540 contribution months for all occupational groups. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:37:21]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24208	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda items 10 and 11. Mrs Faika El-Nagashi is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24237	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Integration Minister! One of the major challenges of integration policy is to convey membership, and one of the great opportunities of integration policy is to create cohesion. Therefore, integration policy is a global social task, and that is why integration policy must develop a vision. Membership does not run along names, origin, skin color, religion, even along citizenship, integration is not a linear, decades-long path from the German course to the citizenship test, from the value course to the integration agreement, belonging is participation and recognition and respect and the simultaneous existence of several places that are native, real or fictitious, a union full of contradictions on a common and shared foundation, a solidarity, a peaceful, a future-rich society. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] Faced with the threat that we are as such a diverse and worldly society through jihadist attacks like those of the Terror night of the 2. It is certainly important and right to ask for responsibility and for prevention and where society is drifting apart and how we want to respond to it. And the dialogue about it with Muslim and with immigrant communities must not only be rhetoric, but need a living reality. Since the terrorist attack in Vienna, anti-Muslim racism has increased in Austria, racism that is directed against Muslims or against people who are perceived as such. They experience outrages and abuses, in school, in the workplace, in public space. They are made guilty, suspicious, and defamated. And this reality, which often belongs to everyday life for those concerned, must be a field of action of integration policy. Integration policy must be anti-racist policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In Austrian politics, however, we do not talk about racism, let alone anti-Muslim racism. Instead, academic discourses are conducted on terms: What is racism? Is it not perhaps more about discrimination? It's not against people, it's against a religion. We are not talking about racism in Austria! When 50 000 people left the street in Vienna alone in May of this year, this happened as part of the Black Lives-Matter movement, this happened in memory of that and as an incitement against the murder of George Floyd by police officers in the USA. It was also remembered by Marcus Omofuma, the Nigerian father of the family, who died on 1 January. In May 1999, during an airplane deportation from Austria, three police were killed negligently by the so-called Operation Spring, the so-called largest noise attack that led to more than 850 police officers storming apartments and refugee homes and arresting several hundred people in the course of the anti-racist protests following the murder of Marcus Omofuma at the end of May 1999. The mechanisms of Operation Spring had profound consequences: Anti-racist protests and solidarity ceased to remove prominent supporters and supporters. Intimidation, de-olidarization, silence, we are not talking about racism in Austria, and so it is now with civil society, the advisory bodies, the anti-racist activists and Activists, anti-racist work and thus integration work. And that, Mr Gödl, is really not a hobby! If we oppose radicalization, we must fight racism. If we want to prevent alienation, we have to allow membership. And if we say dialogue, we have to live together. Integration policy is of course also anti-racist policy, is education policy, is emancipation policy. We are preparing the National Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination! We take advantage of the potential of integration policy for a solidaric and a built-in society!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24304	Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorffist of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24329	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! I can return to the Court of Auditors once again in the budget debate. You all know that the Court of Auditors budget is very constant, it still stands at EUR 36.5 million, which is quite a tight budget. The Court of Auditors is doing a lot and has more to do with the Corona crisis than before. However, we also have the situation that the Court of Auditors' staff status is quite short. It employs almost 85 percent of the planning sites. We can see how close the corset is to all the tasks which the Court of Auditors has to take over and which are getting more and more. As a result of the Corona crisis, further investments are to be made, IT investments to be set up here as best as possible, to enable home office for all employees. These are things which the Court of Auditors has prepared very carefully over recent years, but which, of course, must be extended. And this tight budget does not at least make it easier to carry out all auditing activities. In addition – and from my point of view, it is particularly sad that this has not been done – that this budget could have been used by the Greens too, because the budget is nothing but – and we have heard this already a hundred times – the policy cast into figures. And if I think about what the Greens have announced or what this government has announced in the area of transparency, transparency package, then I must say that it would logically have had to reflect on this budget, but unfortunately it does not. I remember Mrs. Edtstadler, who took place in June, 1st. June, already announced: There will be a transparency package until summer. I would like to remind you of the green tip, which is to third level in July and which has said that the transparency package is to come by the end of the year. The transparency package, which has always been promised here, has also granted more rights to the Court of Auditors. And precisely these rights for the Court of Auditors should have been supported in this budget, namely, by means of financial means, with ways of genuinely fulfilling them and continuing to do so, so that the Court of Auditors can carry out precisely these tasks. If we talk about the control of party finances, we can talk about the control of companies with a high level of state participation. All of this should have been pictured in the budget. You too, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have fully promised this in the election campaign and beyond, but unfortunately we do not see all of this in this budget. This is particularly sad because, as has already been said, the tasks for the Court of Auditors will not be reduced, and precisely this transparency, this control of the crisis, which the Court of Auditors already has a lot more to do with, would be very important and would be in keeping with. Accordingly, I would like and hope that the next budgets will also provide for the possibility of genuine transparency and not just of the federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24380	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24401	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house! Poštovane slušateljice i slušatelji! Dragi pripadniki naših narodnih group! Ladies and gentlemen! I can comment on the People's Group budget. Recently, the Burgenland-Croatian Academic Club organized an event: 20 years of listing of bilingual town boards in Burgenland. At that time, in 2000, under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, in 47 Burgenland-Croatian municipalities and in four Burgenland-Hungarian communities, the bilingual town boards were set up – 45 years after they had been guaranteed to the ethnic groups in the Austrian State Treaty, a very, very long process, but after all. The nice thing at the time at this event in my home town of Großwarasdorf in the presence of the Federal Chancellor was that it was a feast of commonness, a feast of joy that people of different languages celebrated there. I mention this because even if it was 20 years ago, because some of them were very concerned that something was happening at the time, such a small second placeboard tower or that the town panels were damaged. But that is not exactly what happened, and we can be proud of it, of the population in the Burgenland, but also in Austria, that it sees the common sense that perhaps one is not euphoric, but still accepts that people of different culture and language, who have lived in this area for centuries, continue to live peacefully. I mean, we can be proud of the fact that we're making fresh things together. This is a small example in Europe for living together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This common ground is important in the Corona crisis and is also important in this area. As we have said, we have six recognised groups in Austria: the Burgenian Croats, the Carinthian Slovenians, Hungary, actually Burgenian Hungary, the Czechs and Slovaks and the Roma, population groups that have lived on this Austrian territory for centuries and are therefore part of Austria, part of the history of Austria, part of our identity. This commonness is now also found in the People's Group budget. I expressly thank the Federal Minister Raab, we have negotiated the government programme in advance, thank you, Mr Vogluer, Mr Blimlinger, and President Sobotka, the ÖVP, and we have negotiated a very, very good programme for the Austrian peoples. One important area, of course, is the promotion of groups. I would like to thank Federal Minister Raab for her openness on this subject, this very positive access and awareness of the need to help the Austrian peoples, because they are in fact in existence threatened. In the sense of the government programme, we have committed ourselves to an increase in the promotion of groups, and a doubling has come about. After 25 years of desire of the ethnic groups organisations, there is now a doubling. This is really a big step, and thank you for doing so together. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The central element of a ethnic group is the use of the language. If the culture is no longer lived and the language is not spoken, the ethnic group loses its existence, its basis, and, in fact, this is the same problem in the Burgenland as in the groups in Carinthia or in Vienna: The language is lost. The young generation no longer speaks it. The reasons for this are diverse. Closed settlement areas are no longer available. Society has other challenges for young people: You have to learn English, you have to acquire other qualifications, so that the popular languages often fall into disrepute. All the more important, therefore, is the support for projects that are intended to bring exactly that: that children and young people, in addition to kindergarten, compulsory school and higher education, may well also learn the popular language through other projects – childcare, language competitions, cultural projects and, and, everything that is financially supported by the funding of groups. That is quite, very important, and we expect very great impulses so that we can give the groups a chance. I should also like to mention that the media have a special support. Some 700 000 euros are planned to be printed per Austrian group – the “Hrvatske Nomine” of the Croatians, the “Novice” of the Slovenians, also the Czechs have such a sheet – so that the language is transported as well. It must be spoken and heard on radio, television and read in the media as well. It would be a shame if this Austrian identity slowly disappeared. Therefore, once again: Mrs. Federal Minister, thank you for your openness, also for the permanent dialogue with the people's group organisations – they fight for the preservation day after day – and thank you for your support! I hope that, together with our coalition partner, we will give a real impulse that the groups will get a perspective. Srdacna hvala! Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24472	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24493	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors held for 2021 a budget of 500 000 euros higher than the last one. The government programme now provides for an extension of the testing skills. There are already a number of revisions of various Covid measures to be carried out, and further examinations will have to be carried out. That's where the question arises: Is that what this budget is all about? The Court of Auditors must comply with its statutory audit orders: we have already debated the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany today, special audits, which are commissioned by us, et cetera. The finances are one thing. But what about the staff? The reply of the President of the Court of Auditors was clear: If there is this extension of the test skills, the current level of staff will not succeed in delivering the tests in the standard quality so far. One really needed more than 282 full employment equivalents, at least 292. What would be the additional tasks, what would the Court of Auditors have to do in addition? – For example, we would have to examine companies with 25 percent participation, since we would have 450 companies that would be in need of it, et cetera, et cetera. I would like to focus briefly on the objectives of action, in which a crucial question is raised in a large way, namely: Will the funds be targeted and used effectively by the federal, state and local authorities, their enterprises, but also by social security institutions? In view of this pandemic, we have now had to redefine these objectives, as follows: One would like to know whether, in view of this crisis situation, the structure and financial scope of the aid measures are really covered and, above all, how the financial flows from the Federal Government to the countries and communities are how. In short, to achieve an effective goal, which will cover cooperation with other control devices: Digitalisation has already been addressed today, which must be a front-end goal of the Court of Auditors, simply because knowledge sharing and joint auditing activities will have to take place in the virtual area. Ladies and gentlemen! Where appropriate, reserves must be attacked for hardware equipment and IT security measures, but we are aware of one thing: All of us sitting here are responsible for ensuring that the Court of Auditors, as an aid body of the National Council, can carry out its audit competences in accordance with and high quality. It is up to us to equip him with the necessary financial and human resources. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24541	Next speaker: Mrs Olga Vogluer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24563	Madam President. Representatives of the Federal Government! Dear People's Procuratorate! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Spoštovane kolegice in kolegi! Drag poslušalci in poslušalke pred ekrani! Mr Berlakovich has done so beautifully: Austria has six recognized groups of peoples, six groups that make the life and identity of our Republic so special. It is the Czechs and Slovaks in Vienna, it is the castle country Croatia, the Roma and the Hungarians in Vienna and the Burgenland, and it is the Slovenians in Carinthia and Styria who belong to the recognised groups in our country and who contribute to raising their voices in time, where in our society, where discrimination begins. This they do loud and strong, but what they do above all is, with their lives, with their cultural associations, with their Actionism helps to ensure that this country is so diverse and sings, thinks and speaks in several languages. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Fire brigades.]] Yes, we have more than doubled this popular promotion, which is so important for our associations of the ethnic groups. In the future, almost 7.9 million euros a year will be available to continue this cultural life, mostly at the highest level, and to further promote it as it belongs to our Republic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And yes, this increase was long overdue, for it is a clear commitment of Austria to its diversity, its history and its future. It is a form of appreciation that all ethnic groups have deserved alike. It is a natural appreciation, and for us too, this is a step in the direction that we will offer these groups much more often a stage. Today in October, Carinthia celebrated 100 years of Carinthia's referendum. In this referendum in 1920, the population Yes said that the region in which I am at home also remains with Austria. It was essential that the Slovenian-speaking population, with their yes to Koroška, Carinthia, showed where they wanted to stay. Thus we have kept this Koroška also in Austria. We have decided, and we will also decide on a law in this respect, that we will provide 4 million euros within the framework of a vote donation to this region, and 2 million euros of which will be made available to associations of the Slovenian peoples' group and associations dedicated to the common and good cooperation – money that is urgently needed for bilingual kindergartens, bilingual cultural houses and bilingual associations that do one thing, namely to communicate a language to our children, which they can also use in everyday life. Thank you very much to Mrs. Raab, to our vice chancellor and to the Federal Government for making this possible with appropriate funding – thank you! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It is very special, however, for all this good that we will pass a law that we will also translate. It is the first time in our Republic that a federal law is translated into the Slovenian language and thus also published. This is a milestone that is so important because it is a tribute, an appropriate place for a recognised minority language and a thank you. – Hvala lepa, thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24626	Next speaker: Mr Christian Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24650	Estimated Presidents! Estimated Volksanwälte! Members of the Federal Government! First of all, I would like to thank the more than 140 000 public servants for their work, which they do so well despite this federal government. With the pandemic, with the Corona crisis, it was not necessarily easier, and one always forgets the public service, to the public servants, who also often have to perform their service with mask for several hours – which is not very pleasant – for all our good. I now call executives, police and judicial guards the same as teachers, as well as the administrative staff; I don't want to forget to take one out. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Salzmann.]] Of course, it's always nice when there are bonus payments in difficult times, but that doesn't always have to be, there are also service rights that belong constantly adjusted and where you can do something. This is where our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Staff is called for: Heaviness of the law enforcement system would be such an issue. ==References====External links==* Official website It was decided on July 4, 2019 by four parties in this House. The Federal Government is asked to create the relevant legal framework as soon as possible. I look at the ÖVP, which is always famous to be the executive and civil servants' party – no, unfortunately, you haven't been there for a long time –: You have supported this, and you have decided to implement it as quickly as possible. ==References== For a while ago, the Federal Minister of Justice and Vice-Chancellor would have called on him to do something to finally implement this heavy-worker regime as a recognition for the judicial guard! The executive service is hard work! On the contrary, the police have worked, and the judicial department has not worked, on the contrary: The budget for the judicial guard has no more plans for 2021; actually, it is a shame! I mean, I didn't expect the Greens to be there anymore, I look at the ÖVP first. Longer due and finished in the drawer would also be the executive service right to which ÖVP has always known itself. This was finally negotiated under Turquoise-Blue and was briefly implemented – now you hear nothing more about it. You are still in the Federal Government, but you have forgotten the officials who have been public servants for a long time! It is actually a shame that the ÖVP is always famous with it, always adorned with it, but in its implementation is more than weak. In this sense: For the public servants, this budget would have been more acknowledgedgment, but one might still be able to get some kind of service on the road. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24693	Next speaker: Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24714	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated Federal Ministers of the People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! We are dealing, among other things, with public service in this sub-division. The achievements of his employees, which can be said, are so varied and sometimes perceived as so self-evident, so that he may sometimes not receive the appreciation he deserves. In this crisis, during this corona pandemic, this is different, because what the employees do in the public service is great: from kindergartens to schools, hospitals, nursing homes, police, federal army to the municipal offices and the district authorities who vehemently vote against these infection chains and try to interrupt them. – For this purpose, a warm thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Public service is there 24 hours a day, seven days a week for us to accompany us on a journey, with the aim of getting out of this pandemic to overcome this pandemic. On this occasion I find a picture: We all sit in the same boat, we can only achieve our goal together. The captain clearly states the goal, namely: get out of this pandemic, get out of it economically, socially again. The tax collector clearly keeps the direction. Part of the team is also rowing in the right direction, only some stretch the rowing or even rowing against it, and that does not make it easier, for we are truly on rough seas. But the objective of our journey is clear: to get out of this crisis, to start economically and socially, and to achieve this, we will create the necessary framework and financial opportunities to achieve our objective. Public service is working tirelessly to achieve this goal – this is a great achievement for which you can only thank yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, we must also consider the challenges of the future, especially in the public service, because in the next 13 years 48 percent of public servants will retire. This is a loss of knowledge, of quality in the public service, and we must resist the fact that this figure of 13, which some see as an unhappiness, does not actually become such. How do we do that? – For example, with milestones in this budget: that knowledge management is provided, an electronic platform to ensure that the quality of knowledge remains. We continue to develop service law. We want to increase mobility within the Federal Service and bring about the modernisation of recruitment, the selection of personnel, so that on average 6 000 jobs per year can be filled so that the quality of public service work is ensured for the next few years and decades. You see, the public service is not faced with any light challenges, but these many people who work for us day after day scramble the sleeves day after day and face these challenges. If they were not there, there would not be these employees in hospitals, in nursing homes, especially the teachers who have to do special things, the police or soldiers – especially in the terrorist attack recently, we have seen how important the executive, police and federal army in particular is – then it would not be possible to keep our Republic, our society running in such times of crisis as we now have. Thank you very much to those people in the public service. Ladies and gentlemen! Together we come through the crisis and only together we come out of the crisis again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24774	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24796	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Volksanwälte! Subdivision 17: Public service and sport, is not a crazy subject for the valued television viewers, but I would like to bring a few points to the meeting, which, in our group's view, are always a little underexposed. Minister of Labour Aschbacher today presented the new unemployment figures that naturally rise – and this before the second lockdown could leave its marks behind. If you look at the corona policy of the Federal Government in this way, then we all have to assume that on 7 July, we will have to do so. December all locks are removed, infection continues and we have the third lockdown in January or February. And that won't survive any more. If, from today, we are not going to stand at over 400 000 unemployed, but at 800 000 or more, I wonder if Mr Blimlinger or Mr Lausch will come out again and speak of improvements in the public service, even though these people have the security of a fixed job and the security of a fixed salary. We are experiencing an extreme division in society here. [[Abg. It's you! You're columning!]] We have the workers and employees who lose income due to short-term work and unemployment, we have the self-employed who have less income, and on the other hand the public servants and pensioners and also the politicians who can fix their money every month. There would, of course, be a modernisation of the right to serve, but none that lays on a comfortable bed once again two soft ceilings, but it would be appropriate to consider once more: What's the matter with you? Mr Vice-Kanzler, we have also discussed whether, for example, a paid lunch break is appropriate if the taxpayers in the economy who finance all of this do the lunch break during leisure time and are not paid for it. Or if, for example, you look at when you can go to the occupational disability pension or to the self-employed incapacity pension: This is much more difficult to achieve in the economy than a public service incapacity pension, because in the public service it is enough if one can no longer be changed within one's own service, while one can refer an independent person to all the activities that exist at all. Thus, protection in the public service is covered in comparison. So if you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, go to negotiations with the trade union on wage increases – I also told you in the Committee – then I hope you will take employers' demands so that this will not become a one-way road, not only by presenting demands on the employee's side, but also by bringing the employer's legitimate concerns for modernising the right to serve together in order to move forward one step further together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24832	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Zarits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24857	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sports friends! Minister of Sports! Austrian sport is certainly facing immense challenges when it comes to dealing with the corona pandemic, and we all have the task – especially in politics – of supporting sports as much as possible. We have undoubtedly been in a situation for weeks and months, in which we are in a field of tension between responsible health prevention on the one hand and the understandable desire of many athletes for versatile movement. But I think, Minister of Sports, we have chosen a very good way in dialogue with the associations, with the clubs, with the athletes. I think we have achieved very, very much, even as far as the easing regulations are concerned: only as many restrictions in the sports sector, as necessary, and as much movement as was possible. Of course, the numbers are now so high, and we hope that we will be able to reduce the numbers again with each other and then be able to go back to sports as soon as possible, because sports is important to us. Of course, we want to achieve this for all athletes. Thank you at this point all athletes for understanding in the last weeks and months and for understanding the coming weeks and months. I would have a request to all sportsmen, to all those who volunteer in the sports clubs: Please keep your association faithful, please support your association with your membership contribution within the scope of your possibilities! The sport needs all of us now. A warm thank you to all those who will and will still make their membership contributions, a warm thank you for that! Mr Sport Minister, I should like to thank you very much: 151.5 million for sport, for the sports budget, that's 10.8 million more, 7.8 percent more. This is the highest rate of increase in the last decades – and that is a good thing. Especially now in this challenging time, the sport needs safety. 15 000 sports clubs, 2.1 million members, 570 000 children and young people, more than 580 000 volunteers with a weekly work volume of 2.2 million hours – thank you very much, and of course we also want to strengthen the honorary office with this budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The sport makes a valuable contribution for all of us, especially for children and young people. I was a youth coach myself at my sports club, and it was always a great pleasure to me. I've seen how much joy the children and young people have in it. We must do everything we can to get the children and young people in motion; of course, now is the first place to drive down the infection numbers. What I especially liked when I was working in the youth sector was that children and young people, especially in sports, learn to deal with victories and defeats. They learn to deal with rules, they learn how to deal with the teammates and thus how to deal with them within our society. By this you can already see how important the sport is – once again a warm thanks to the Federal Government that more budget is available for it. Also otherwise, the sport is important for us: It is an enormous economic factor in Austria, important for health, important for inclusion, also important for integration. As mentioned earlier: We now need security for the associations, for the clubs, for the athletes. The NPO Fund has already been set up with 700 million euros, which – Mr. Vice-Chancellor has already announced – is now up to 31. It was extended on 1 December 2020. This is very, very important so that the clubs, the associations, the athletes can also plan. In a personal conversation with the Vice-Chancellor, he said that the associations and associations will of course be helped for so long as this pandemic persists. In the profile area we have also been very, very successful. With the Profiligenfonds, we have managed that the associations have a basis of existence even in these difficult times. What is important to us and what we have agreed in the government programme is that we ensure Austrian sport to the fullest extent and quality. We want to safeguard and expand the sports infrastructure, of course also safeguard employment in sport. It is particularly important for me to develop the voluntary structures. I think that's a huge concern for all of us. Many of you, many of the delegates are active in the municipalities and know what in the Sports clubs for great work are performed. Of course, it is also important to continue to position the top athletes in the world class. With the sports budget we go a very, very good way. We give the clubs, the associations, the athletes' safety in a very, very challenging time. That is why I call for this budget to be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24929	The next speaker is Mr Thomas Drozda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e24950	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! President of the Court of Auditors! “You’ll see no acting. Your sight will not be satisfied. You won't see a game. There will not be played here.” – With these words, it is well known – you have guessed – Peter Handke’s “public abuse”. I believe that this quote well describes the situation of the local media policy, which I would like to talk about briefly. We do not see any media promotion, we do not see any media policy, we do not see any will for design. There is no government here and no action is taken. – So simple and disturbing is the judgment on what you are presenting here: a budget for 2021, in which no post-corona measures were taken into account. You're pretending you don't have the problem. We know that, from an economic point of view, the media are particularly affected and the economic consequences are particularly serious. They refuse to recognize that the world is turning on. Although you want to introduce a digital tax, digital funding in the media sector is neither designed nor budgeted enough. In spite of all the legitimate and well-known criticisms, do not change anything once again in the press promotion. That's the motto: so far, so bad. The announced media fund to promote video production of Austrian media companies remains what this government provides all too often: a newspaper interview without further implementation. This budget shows that media policy is not important to you. They have agreed. You don't want any critical media as a fourth power in the state, you also want to enforce your PR app in the editorial offices. You don't want discussion and critical discussion, you want media that clap when you call that only bring more of your pictures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I therefore make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] I started by hand – let me close myself with hands. I quote: “ The most thoughtless of all people: the one that only leaves in every book. ” It's a shame that this budget gives you the chance to understand that media in which you don't just browse or tap, give us every thought that at least theoretically, everyone will pass on a piece in the end. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[18:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25067	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Romana Deckenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25091	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! High house and dear spectators! Beate Meinl-Reisinger is right when she says: “Austria can be proud of the public service.” Norbert Hofer also says: “The public service guarantees stability and security in the state structure and therefore deserves not only our appreciation, but also modern, needs-based and fair working conditions.” Mrs Rendi-Wagner also says: “Our public servants do excellent work. They are the heart of our society. Mr. Vice-Chancellor said: ‘without public service’ means ‘no functioning society’. Our Federal Chancellor says: "The public service is responsible for the administration and ensures the functioning of our state. Without a functioning official and administrative staff, our state, but also “our political system would not exist”. We have experienced many examples of how the employees of the public service are working for us, risking their health – using their lives – for us. Whether it is with the police and the special staff, in the hospitals, in the elderly and nursing homes, in kindergartens, in schools and universities, in the federal army, in the general administration, in the judicial system – including in the judicial service – or in the financial administration – this list would still continue –: The crucial thing is that it is the colleagues in our public service who are helping and supporting us through this difficult time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's call again at this point the 2. November in memory! Thanks to the rapid use of our executive, it is due to the fact that the suspect could be neutralized after just 9 minutes. The rescue chain worked, and our health facilities were able, despite the increasing utilization by Covid-19, to partially seriously injured professional to provide services. That our country, especially in this challenging time for all of us, is how to cope with this crisis, we owe to a significant part of the professionalism and resilience of the public service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We as civil society can rightly be proud of all these professional groups. The statements quoted at the beginning of my speech date back to 2019, and not even a year later all statements were confirmed by the reality of the events known to us. At this point, allow me to express a warm thanks to all the employees of the public service for their great commitment to us and to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25145	Next, Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25170	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Volksanwälte! The People's Procuratorate is the second smallest institution and takes into account the budget of 12.42 million euros. This is more than EUR 190 000 in 2020, and it represents an increase of 1.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic also has an impact on the activities of the Volksanwälte. In the Budget Committee, the Volksanwälte of 270 reported complaints received by Covid-19, as well as 13 official audits, of which ten complaints and two examinations were entitled. 44 complaints have been received from the school and university departments, four of which were considered to be entitled. These were essentially cases relating to distance learning, matura preparation and masculine requirements. The “Bürgeranwalt” mission is an essential contribution to making public the public prosecutor’s office known, and to further increase awareness, the public prosecutor’s office is planning to take measures to make it easier for a younger target group as well as for women. There is a small, modest increase in the budget from 60 000 to 70 000 euros. Another goal of the Public Prosecutor's Office is to create a legal framework to be able to present the Public Prosecutor's Office in the course of political education in schools. Finally, I would like to thank the lawyers and the public prosecutors for their commitment, their work and good cooperation with Parliament. I wish you all the best for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25207	The next speaker is Mrs Kira Grünberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25231	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government members! Dear People's Lawyers! Estimated President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Right at the beginning of my speech, I would like to mention a few figures on the sports budget: The 2021 budget estimate provides for an amount of EUR 151.5 million for sport. This corresponds to a Increase of 10.8 million euros compared with 2020. In particular, these additional financial resources are to be channelled into the establishment of the new Institute for Sport Technology, into the inclusion of sport, into gender equality projects and into the promotion of women's sport. As spokesperson of the new People's Party for People with Disabilities, of course I am particularly interested in the field of sports and inclusion. For this purpose, €650 000 is available for 2021. In this context, I would also like to stress how essential movement and sport offers are for people with disabilities. In professional disability sports, Austria already has a very good reputation, and I strongly support the fact that one continues to confess and invest in it – for example through the posts for athletes with disabilities in military sports. The Austrian parasporters are known to win medals regularly at major events and thus also play a great role in the role of our young people. What I think needs even more attention is inclusive broadband with very low level of access. Often it doesn't take much to make exercise and sports offers accessible to disabled people as well. In addition to the preventive character, this also has a very essential social and integration component. On the other hand, it has been shown that sports activities are to be started as early and as young as possible – in children with and without disabilities alike. In Austria, there are already some positive examples of associations and initiatives such as the Snowfarers and Be there. The project also moves children healthyly, already in version 2.0, beats exactly in the same notch and has become a real success project. A further increase of the funds for this is planned fixed. These are to be used for the comprehensive implementation of swimming courses in public schools as far as possible. Finally, I would like to stress once again how important and healthy it is to engage regularly in sports and to move. This applies to every person – whether with or without disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25274	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25298	Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Do you often know these small corner areas in which you rarely see a guest? From time to time, the waiter, who otherwise hangs at the bar, smokes a cigarette, and every few days someone actually drinks a coffee, and you think: What does this local actually live on? Why hasn't it been argued for a long time? What happens to stores in the back room? – It is similar with media promotion in Austria. The official media promotion that we can debate and decide today is the coffee that a guest drinks every few days in our corner. The millions of heavy government insanity, these are the thick money bags that someone in the back room brings by, and these money bags are not subject to control, no supervision or any proportionality. 31 million euros were spent by the Ministries alone in 2018 and 2019 on advertisements in daily newspapers. Two thirds of them – that is, 21 million euros – went to “Kronen Zeitung”, “Today” and “Austria”. This shows a recent study from the Medienhaus Wien. However, what this study has to leave open is: Why is that so? – The price per reader or reader reached with these ads is three times as high in these Boulevard media as in other newspapers. So it cannot be economics alone. You have to look back there for 45 years to understand why rulers are so happy to pursue their media policy in the back room. In 1975, the parties approved a very generous promotion of parties, and the media also received something to compensate for it. The thought was: The media should be able to understand quietly how pleasant it is to live with such promoters. While the promotion of the parties has then developed very beautifully, media promotion has continued to fall downhill. This has become less and less so, and for this the government rate in media budgets has become more and more important. These ads amounting to almost 31 million euros per year alone in times without covid are awarded without any possibility of testing, without any perceptibility, without any transparency in dark back rooms, and this is annoyed because there is a lot of tax money spent and suffocated. Even more annoyed is the fact that this money, probably even with much less, could make reasonable, forward-looking media policy: at last new quality and education offensives, new formats, new technologies, digitalization, new ways of distribution; these are just some important issues that should have earned the attention of media politicians. There's nothing in the budget of all of this. Instead, the government still prefers to distribute money in dark backrooms, and this, although we learn from other places, how important it is at times to simply vent powerfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25340	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25365	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Volksanwälte! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Brandstötter, I am personally convinced that you will bring out and make quite transparent the funding granted by the city of Vienna through your government participation in the backrooms. That is much more money than this money from the Federal Government. Let us take a look at what comes out of it, the Government Convention does not indicate that. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brills]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget figures relating to public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors for the next year are, I believe, quite positive and a good development, based on this year. However, I should like to make one comment, quite replicating the speeches made by colleagues: If you are talking about new or additional tasks, I believe that you should also call for a Court of Auditors and a public prosecutor's office, as for many other institutions, not only after new money, but also think about where you can get better, more efficient in the processes. It is only then that, from my point of view, we should call for new money, namely from the Members' ranks. Last year, the Public Prosecutor's Office examined 135 long-term and short-term care facilities. Most of the reviews – and this applies to both private and public institutions – have not been reported. That is, one really sees it exactly, because then one cannot judge it in any form. The test result, which can be said quite clearly, confirms the care facilities big modo positive work. At the same time, however, it is also seen that suggestions are accepted and implemented. In this year, the situation is certainly different. That is why, I believe, it is necessary to take into account the challenges of the care homes in connection with the Covid-Pandemy and to admit that this year one cannot compare one with the other. The overall care is a huge challenge for the future. I would have a suggestion for the People's Procuratorate – I would like this and I hope that this will also be taken into account in the Public Prosecutor's Office – that the reviews will not only be sent to people who talk in the field of care only in the theory of how others should do it, but also those who have experience in the care sector. Let us also be glad that so many people are taken care of in private at home! The vast majority of people who need care are being cared for at home. Allow me a few more thoughts on the issue of corona pandemic and nursing homes. In Upper Austria we have more than 130 facilities in which more than 13 500 people are cared for and cared for. ==References== ==References== In November 2020, the number of patients suffering from Covid, i.e. the nursing home population, increased from 388 to 494, with the number of employees rising from 412 to 470. Therefore, all that is effective today is an essential necessity and cannot be avoided. A pandemic needs mutual consideration and responsibility. Even if my speaking time actually ends, I deliberately say: Maybe you should write in the main book and behind the earwash: My personal freedom stops where I limit the freedom of others! Or in other words – the remark is allowed –: You sometimes also call on religious images, such as the Christian image or the other, and it can also be derived from having to consider the other. Even if you may not be convinced of everything by a thousand percent, it is good to comply with certain rules out of a sense of responsibility and consideration. After a few speeches we have heard today, be it those of Mr. Kickl, Mr. Singer, Mr. Worm and Mr. Schnedlitz or of Mrs. Belakovich, I must say in view of the level of these speeches: I find it super political, but the picture that comes from us, from Parliament, is actually devastating. Democracy and pandemic need responsibility and consideration. It is not the time of personal circumstances for me now, but those of responsibility, and as representatives of the people, we should be aware of this responsibility together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25428	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Köllner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25449	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! We have often had to climb your toes, and it took a felt eternity until it was finally that far, but I would like to thank you at the beginning for being able to exchange between the sports speakers a few days ago. I think you and my colleagues will be right in saying that it was a very constructive conversation. So I'd rather be late. as not at all. The fact that we are finally sitting at a table was urgently necessary from my point of view, because you have repeatedly shot your own gates with your government colleagues in the recent past. Before I come to the budget, together we only recall the decision-making disaster a few weeks ago: It was just chaos, chaos, chaos. At the beginning of the week, a canteen ban on sports courts was colported. On Friday that week, for example, the football clubs were still in the dark and wondered: Can we give the few viewers a liver cheese and give them a beer? - Why the whole thing? Because the regulation, which has been announced, has not come. For associations, these are essential revenue. But they need planning security and clarity, just as all other citizens do, and they need no uncertainty, because volunteer officials sacrifice many hours of their free time for the community, and they deserve our appreciation for it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example are yoga, fitness or dance studios. They also had to throw their planned courses over the pile in the short term because they had to implement new requirements and restrictions. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I note that you are taking our criticism to heart and are now at least trying to loosen up some euro for sport at the Pleiten-Pech- und-Ppann-Finanzminister Blümel in order to cause damage to a situation that has not been caused by the population. I therefore welcome the fact that you are at least sensible and want to implement our demand to compensate the associations for the loss of revenue. However, the associations need not only planning security for the time of the second lockdown, but also now the certainty that the aid fund for associations will be extended until at least the end of the first quarter of 2021. Apart from the corona aid funds, which the sport has been waiting for the longest, and one, two other points, such as the women's projects that have been addressed, I do not see any big jumps in your sports budget. This only shows the importance of sport within this federal government. I come to the conclusion: What's completely missing in your budget is the vision – the vision to make everything happen to bring the children already in school age movement and sport so closer that it becomes an automatism, a matter of course for them. What the reality is, we both know, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have to do much more resources and make much more effort to implement the daily movement and sports unit in compulsory schools. As long as that's not the case, I'm not going to get tired of putting this on the tapet here in the high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25504	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25528	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear personalities on the government bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before I go into the public service budget briefly, allow me to take an equally short trip to the present day. When I come home after such a plenary day, I am asked again and again – probably some others too: So, did you fight hard? – I have now listened carefully for almost 10 hours and have to answer this question when I get home with a clear yes; but not only with a yes, which is the political discourse, but also with a yes, which reaches the remarkable level. I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Where does the anger come from? Where does this personal anger come from, this aggression in today's plenarys by colleagues Kickl, Wimmer, Zanger and Co? That's a picture that we're giving out for which, honestly, I'm not supposed to have a place in times like this. Here pictures are produced, namely, when Mr Wimmer says that the government is hunting people like rabbits, and when Mr. Zanger speaks of courage, hope and confidence, this is almost a paradox in itself. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe – and this teaches me the last 10 hours – that we should show cohesion at this time and live what we were elected to be representatives of the people in Austria. But now to the budget, and I turn first to colleagues, Loacker, who repeatedly sue the paid lunch break. One can discuss this, but who has been involved in a public service call before, knows how difficult it is to find good employees who go to the public service at these salary conditions. Mr Loacker, the lunch break paid is not a turbo for the people to tear themselves to go to the public service. On the other hand, it is a very good strategy – and that is why I also ask for agreement on this point – to place great emphasis on the training and training of employees, because the world is becoming increasingly complex and people in our country rely on public service and on the expertise they receive from employees in public service. Members of the public service sector are the main support of our state, especially during these times. That is why I believe that every euro invested in the public service is a good euro. In this sense, I would ask you to agree to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25573	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25598	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said without exaggeration that there is almost no other area of society, which has been so neglected in the Corona crisis and abandoned as Austrian sport. Many athletes, trainers, clubs, officials have been standing before the absolute nothing for months. They are increasingly plagued with new regulations, bans and now with a new shutdown. I have to say, as a former professional sportswoman, it makes me almost silly that you always treat the sport as a minor or hobby. It makes me silly that one is constantly claiming that in the health crisis one can give up the sport loosely. One hears constantly such unqualified comments, which are no longer to be surpassed by ignorance, ladies and gentlemen. Sports is not a hobby, nor is it leisure time – that is – for incredibly many people, sports is their profession, career and life; they live from sports and for sports. 15 000 sports clubs, almost 600,000 voluntary, more than two million members are not only a major economic factor but also a system-related factor. Nevertheless, since the beginning of the crisis from today to tomorrow, without any differentiation, we have simply banned and locked everything up. You have forbidden games and trainings, ended seasons, even you have closed parks and even banned running. That's why the absurdities have been missed straight away. At least you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, now, in the second lockdown, at least already understood that top-level sport is a professional activity and therefore needs to continue. I congratulate you! Now it is just missing that you also understand that sports are also important for the health of adults and especially children in this country. Thank you. Their actions are a lot of clubs in front of nothing, they have no revenue but continuous costs. For art and culture, there was an immediate aid package available, for sport there has only been an auxiliary pot since the middle of summer. Nevertheless, the associations are constantly being tormented by new regulations and forced measures; Tag Spectator Limitations, where absolutely no one understands why we now have the fifth dissatisfaction number and definition and you don't even set a percentage – oriented to the capacity of the respective sports venue, with a broken hygiene concept – which would save the clubs a lot of costs and damage. But not only the resources are necessary – and I really hope, Minister, that In all cases of the regulation Their word will be kept and all associations will really get the means and the help they need. I hope you're speaking, because otherwise it's you who's responsible for the biggest club death of all time. Apart from the resources and aid, I also miss other initiatives to help sport. What does it look like, for example, with additional transmission possibilities both on television and via online streams? Women's sport in particular suffers from the lack of means of transmission. However, it seems that women's sport is not particularly valuable to you, as we have seen in the Committee on Budgets, because you cannot even say how much this aid actually benefits women. What is it like, Mr Minister, are you trying to somehow compensate for or dampen the loss of many sponsors by, for example, making sponsorship removable without any advertising value or donations? Mr. Minister, you have been exploring for months the importance of sports for the health of the population and especially for our children, and you are buying that in the long term, lack of movement is causing massive collateral damage. From the first lockdown we already know that the health status of the population has deteriorated dramatically due to lack of movement. Now – absolutely incomprehensible – you not only close the schools, but also prevent club sports again and thus take our children any chance to move enough and to engage in sports. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this reason, Mr Vice-Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Greens, finally come to reason, stop this regulation and ban madness! Take care of the necessary help and finally end this health-related crime to our children before you do any harm that can no longer be done well! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25734	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Gudrun Kugler, you will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25758	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! I will quote the People's Procuratorate again today, but only at a later hour! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed the issue of integration in this sub-division today. I would like to take it up again, because I believe that the brilliance of the issue of integration cannot be sufficiently emphasized just after the Islamic attack on 2.11. The Federal Chancellor spoke of a civilizational dispute. I think that word well describes the problem. We must create a legal framework to defend our freedom, our values, our democracy. We must act strongly and we must also be strict in order to achieve this. The challenges are great, much can be done by the federal government, but many things also have to be done by the countries. That is why I was very sad yesterday that the issue of integration in the Red-Pink press conference did not happen at all, although Vienna is a hotspot of the problem. [[Abg. Loacker: Such a fool!]] I have also considered the government programme carefully today and have not even found the word integration in any heading. It appears a few times in the text, but it wasn't even worth a chapter. [[Abg. Loacker: I don't need to explain to you the ten commandments, you know how this is with the lie!]] I think that's very, very bad. What happens to the Islamic kindergartens in Vienna? [[Abg. Loacker: Inconceivable!]] What about the NGOs in Vienna, who is being promoted? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] What happens in the Vienna Youth Centres? Ladies and gentlemen, you are still here from NEOS: I believe that if you are facing a abyss, then progress is not the right thing. – The Red-Pink Coalition in Vienna. In contrast, the Federation takes this responsibility very seriously. The anti-terrorism package, which we have already heard a lot about, also concerns the Federal Chancellery very strongly, and also some of what has received a financial increase has been addressed. I'm just saying that the Political Islam Documentation Centre is a milestone. In the same way, the cultuary is important, and the cultuary must also be strengthened. It needs competence for the religious associations, not only for the religious communities themselves, but for the associations. Quite importantly, the systematic balance between security authorities, the cultuary office and the association authorities and also the prevention of circumvention structures of the ban on foreign financing is very important. All of this is quite, very important and can be better driven forward with an increased budget. Effect Objective 2: The UG 10 says equality, and if you look more closely at what it means, you speak of promoting social values for a peaceful, safe and equal living together of the population in Austria. – That is exactly what we are working towards, that is what the anti-terrorism package should do, because where our freedom and our democracy are at risk, we will do everything we can to prevent that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25827	Mr Yannick Shetty, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, spokesperson. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25855	Mrs Kugler has just said that the word integration in no single heading in the coalition agreement between SPÖ and NEOS is present in Vienna. – I’m actually correcting: The word integration occurs not only once, but for example on page 119, on page 120, on page 121, page 122, in several headings ; no, not in the text, these are several headings. [[Abg. Kugler: But in no substantial title!]] [[Abg. Kugler: No, that's not right!]] – Of course, look, I'll send it to you! That's what I've actually corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25903	Mr Werner Kogler has now spoken. Please, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e25924	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Yes, the public service can already prove – and I believe he has done so in many areas – how valuable he is. I would like to thank the Members who have expressly mentioned this. I am thinking not only of those who work in the Federal Service, but also of those in the municipalities, in the federal states, and with that I am already with the kindergartens, kindergartens, teachers, nurses in nursing homes, hospitals, but of course also with the police, with the members of the Federal Army et cetera. I think already during the first lockdown, it has been proved how powerful the public service has been in spite of home office – wherever it went. That's the way it is now. Overall, I think, performance can be seen. So I would like to join this in expressly and gladly. The other good for the public service is – I think, even though Mr Loacker, who has raised me extra, may not be enthusiastic about it now – that there will be no fewer planning posts there. Why that again? – This does not mean that the public service is not constantly trying to become more efficient, but we are focusing on several programmes, especially in the field of justice, health, but also – the largest share – in the area of police, which regularly and gradually employs more plan posts. Let's not underestimate the subject! In the next two legislative periods, we have almost 50 percent in the public service, which, if you want to, “ exchange”, essentially by retirement or by retirement. And if that's the case now, it's good if we do several things at the same time. I would just like to focus on a focus that is now going through everywhere: digitization. It will play a very important role, on the one hand, in the transfer of knowledge that we have to organise, on the other hand also in the recruitment of personnel, which is exactly what it is related to, and on the other hand, we currently have that all of this will be put on more modern rails, even in current continuing and continuing training, when I think about how the administrative academy is currently working. – Also for recognition and thanks. To the sport: There too, thanks goes to the many club owners, whether women or also the many volunteers who work there, that, although sometimes a different impression is raised here, she does not put her head in the sand collectively, but, quite the contrary, see how we get over these difficult times. That's good. It is true that in Austrian organised sports, relatively little is now possible in these days and weeks, but we have discussed it in a broad and detailed way in the Committee: Right now it's not about being behind with the recorder, where it's supposed to have infected someone and where not. Everyone says there's no one in their areas – they're just wondering: Then where do the high rates of infection come from? At the moment, we're trying to reduce or dramatically limit physical contacts on all levels, but that's what I mean, right now, because we're getting back to a level where you can expect to go and see clusters where someone's infecting or not. This has been impossible for weeks – yes, you have to admit it – because more than three quarters of the cases are not understandable at all. So I don't need anyone to explain where someone is infecting and where no one is infecting. That stopped. We've got to re-set this up. I can criticize this, yes, why something has not been done before and what I know, but now the situation is like that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] It is certainly about a restart in the area – and then again in sports, but of course. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: When? Date!]] It is important, however, that even with the associations, which are essentially – that is, up to the professional associations, I go straight to it – working on a voluntary basis or on a community basis, no too big or at all no financial damage is taken at all, because the joint-profiters also need a certain minimum budget to be able to work, especially those who meet important social priorities, such as youth care, that the boys and the children are well cared for and just keep in motion in the best sense of the word. That also costs something with all voluntaryness, which is no question at all. By the way, the non-profit sector in Austria – which is one of the few points in which I can join Mrs Steger – really has a lot of money in circulation. De facto is the non-profit sector, although it is called non-profit, in this country actually a very nice industry, and that is why we want to support it accordingly and keep the blood in circulation so practically – and here, much has been done in this regard. I am not only talking about sports, but also about art and culture, which comes into play afterwards, about health and social associations, religious organizations, fire brigades et cetera – all that makes up Austria's wide range. There is a fund of 700 million euros, the payout was extended first by the end of the year, and the second is politically already fixed that this will continue at least in the first quarter of next year, with an additional 250 million euros. Now, when you count together, you find that in one year of this crisis, we are making 1 billion euros available, and that is – I really trust you to say at this point – quite unique in Europe. I invite you all to find better examples. We follow this in the sections we have – in the sports section, in the cultural section – to compare how the other countries do: Nobody's coming to this region. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Now you still have to use the money wisely, that's right, and that's what happens. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] With regard to the direct closure measures by the authorities, too, there is the prospect – and we are trying to bring this just legally – that for the month of November or the duration of these administrative closures, especially in the sports and cultural spheres, we will replace a loss of revenue for the public and not only make a cost replacement – just as has been done in the economy. The non-profit fund is similar to the fixed-cost grants, only in the payment almost generously designed; as there is a turnover replacement for businesses, there is a loss of revenue for associations. This will also lead to a corresponding increase in funding. This will become a more complicated trail of accounting, but at the beginning of next year, everyone will be able to submit applications again. I would like to point out that this is the fund that needs only 48 hours from the application to the disbursement – even if we first set up the system that has invested some week, that's right. What do we do with the sports budget in these many areas? It would now, I believe, be the framework if I told you about all the projects – but it is actually over 10 million euros more than last year, and they are spent, for example, on the area of infrastructure. There is a whole list of projects that individual Members of you are always happy to take up, even in order to intervene positively. There's something in every federal country. What delights me is – to put a focus on this short tour d’Horizon – for example, the Villach Performance Centre for Women’s Eishockey. This will be similar to the Sankt Pölten National Women's Football Center. There are a number of other projects. Of course, we will also be starting the training center for football in the near future, so that we can also be there in the very front. If we do this quickly, we have even achieved an economic effect in the next two or three years with these construction measures. It is similar with the sports technology projects: It is also a question of getting to the highest level of science, especially in technology, but also in the field of training sciences. This refers to several sports, not just one, and it is also unique in Austria that we see that we achieve certain synergies between the sports, if jointly invested in training science, but also in technological development. Because I used to talk about the focus: We have the first time this year, and this will continue in all years, at least in this legislative period, a separate support for women's sportsmen, not only for men, and a separate programme for the training of trainers, in which we as ministers invest in salaries for four years, and this should result in us having 60 highly trained sports trainers in this legislative period, which can then also rise internationally accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The final issue in the list, which I am happy to address, concerns the children. It is the project that moves children healthyly. This should not be underestimated – because it has been said that there is no money – that is now 8 million euros, you can also look for it. This means that we are getting closer and closer to the daily movement unit in the school with the project, because we can now soon cover all compulsory schools – and more each year. Final apple: Even if there is a lockdown again at the moment, everyone should still stay on the move, and we will probably bring it together. Before you get excited by the FPÖ there too much: It is explicitly planned to leave the house just to move. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, thank you, very gracious! Thank you for the generosity!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26030	Mr Rudolf Silvan. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26054	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I'm allowed to talk to the People's Procuratorate. In 2019, more than 16 600 people turned to the People's Procuratorate. 8 016 test procedures have been initiated. I think that speaks for the importance of this institution. Of course, the figures are not yet available for 2020, but we can already say that the trend of complaints is rising. Why is that so? – Unfortunately, because of the numerous regulations of God, there have always been non-constitutional provisions – whether by the Ministry of the Interior or by the Ministry of Health – and the citizens have very often addressed the public prosecutors this year. The increased staff expenditure provided for in the public prosecutor's budget is also urgently needed because of the increasing number of complaints about the government's covid measures. Whether they are hardy funds, penalties, ads, entry and exit regulations, bans, quarantine provisions: All areas are affected by complaints from citizens. At present, the public prosecutor has to deal with one-off payments to the unemployed. From my point of view, the government has made another mistake: Unemployed persons who were or were unemployed for 60 days, but were reported sick for a few days, do not receive the support that is urgently needed. Two cases were dealt with in the ORF broadcast “Bürgeranwalt” by the competent popular lawyer Bernhard Achitz and in my opinion well accompanied. – Thank you very much. A general increase in unemployment benefit to 70 percent would have saved the people from this problem and the People's Procuratorate. The public prosecutor's budget for 2021 seems sufficient, the emphasis seems to be on it. I think announcements such as the so-called voluntary mass testing or the alleged right to special care time for parents in connection with school closures after this lockdown will result in further complaints to the public prosecutor's office. We also support the initiative of the competent public prosecutor Walter Rosenkranz, who supported the conduct of the authorities before the terrorist attack of 2nd. ==References====External links==* Official website This investigation certainly contributes to greater transparency. That is why I think it would be useful for the public prosecutor's budget to recognise the consequences of the current lockdown, because there can be budgetary problems too. I would like to conclude by thanking the lawyers and the public prosecutors. They shall ensure that citizens are given their constitutional right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26106	Mr. Volksanwalt now has Mag. Bernhard Achitzzu word reported. - Please, Mr. Volksanwalt.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26130	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thank you very much for the praises that many of you have found for the People's Procuratorate. You can rely on it: We will reliably pass this on to our employees because they guarantee the high quality of the public prosecutor's examinations. That's what I'm going to get to the budget. It is very pleasing for us that it does not remain with praiseful words, but that the recognition of the public prosecutors is also reflected in the budget figures, that the extraordinary increase granted from 2019 to 2020 is continued for the years 2021 and the following, and, above all, that the increase in staff granted to us is also continued. You can believe us, the staff is well used. We need every woman and every man for our test activity. We have a variety of tasks. The auditing control of the federal administration and the administration of seven federal states is probably the best known. We've got it. The pleasure to discuss the auditing control and preventive human rights control with you every year in the House, so that you can also get our audit results on the face and draw the respective conclusions from them. It has already been said: The framework conditions are currently difficult. Sprechage, which is set up, is cancelled in the short term. We must then shift contacts with citizens to telephone calls or the like. This also reduces the complaints that occur regularly in our policy areas, but the Covid regulations naturally lead to new problems and to an increase in this area, so that we assume that the overall level of complaints will be higher in 2020 than in recent years. There are also additional challenges in other areas, such as preventive human rights control. If you want to visit nursing homes if you want to visit disability facilities, you must of course ensure that you do not endanger the inhabitants of these facilities and also the staff in those facilities. We must ensure that the members of the Commissions who go there can be tested to ensure that they are healthy when they go to the institutions so that they can carry out their important activities precisely in times like these, because it is clear that this graze between health protection and respect for basic and human rights represents a special challenge, especially in sensitive areas such as nursing homes and disabled facilities. It is very, very important that, especially where the loads are very high, in the care area, where the burden of staff is enormous at the moment, it is looked at that, despite these high loads, all human rights standards are respected. There are also additional challenges in dealing with the home-sacrifice pension, because the people who claim a pension benefit because they claim to have been abused as young people, as children in institutions, are invited by us to a clearing talk with psychologists. It is very often older people. Of course, these are afraid of contacting, so that there are also special solutions to be found. Despite these numerous challenges, I think we are very good at maintaining the usual quality. This is particularly important at the moment, because if we criticize processes, we do not criticize them for the sake of criticism, but we criticize them in order to achieve improvements for citizens. Especially in the case of new things like these Covid measures, Shutdown and the like, it is logical that mistakes occur. These errors should be improved as quickly as possible and conditions should be made more transparent and better for citizens. In this sense, of course, it is also necessary to discuss further tasks of the public prosecutor's office, because the citizens expect us to take care of their problems even when it concerns transport associations when it comes to hospitals when it comes to the cemetery administration, because all this is generally counted as good administration. However, many of these areas have now been distributed, and the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have the same rights there as with an administrative authority. That is why we ask you to think about granting us these rights also to distributed bodies. You don't need to be afraid that we will immediately After the next increase in the budget and staff, because we have to deal with these problems anyway, we do not have the same rights there as we do in real administration. In the administration we can at any time request any act in the original by the authority, and they must also be spoken and answered. Of course, this is not the case in the distributed administration. We depend on them voluntarily to cooperate with us. So there is still a need for action. I would also like to point out: Yes, we have additional planning sites, yes, we have also received a budget increase, we only need to spend reserves on them in order to cover the additional planning sites. In other words, in the next few years we will have to ask you to also get the cover for these planning sites, otherwise we will be like the Court of Auditors: We'd have more plans than we could have filled with the money we have. This would suffer the quality of our work. In this sense, I thank you once again for the attention and for the praises.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26199	Thank you very much, Mr. Volksanwalt. Next speaker is Karl Schmidhofer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26227	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! Trustees at home! Back to sport: Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Sports discussed it once again, it is a solid budget, balanced for club promotions as well as for top sports, no matter in any sector, and ultimately for sports in general, which is very important for children, for all ages, and with sports technology projects we now also open up new fields to get even better to the top. A focus is also new, the sports budget has been significantly increased: Additional initiatives are also being put in place for women. Mrs Brandstötter said this in her speech: Marketing and so on, you shouldn't do that and you shouldn't sell it. Mr Vice-Chanzler referred to the fact that we in Europe are at the forefront of these measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brigades.]] [[Abg. Loacker: We are especially at the top of the infection numbers!]] That's what we want, and of course we want to tell the people. What we don't want is what you did in Vienna. You put yourself in bed with the reds and didn't even think you landed under the bed and have nothing to talk about for five years. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Finally, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Sports, thank you very much for being an organizer in various top sports in Austria: Formula 1 in Spielberg, tennis tournament in Vienna, women's tennis tournament, by the way, organized by a lady, by Sandra Reichel, in Linz, the competitions in the World Ski Cup, which have already been performed, which are now in Lech's doorstep. This, in turn, contributes to the positive transport of sport. The award for the World Championships in Salzburg 2025 is a good and positive outlook. Thank you very much for supporting sports policy with you at the head, Mr Vice-Chancellor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26281	The next speaker is Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26306	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen and prominent guests! If I count them all now, they've been over for 30 seconds, and we don't have that much time. Say hello to all of you! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate there were three contributions to integration before me, and they could not have been different from each other. Integration spokesperson Gödl said that this was “no hobby”. – That’s right, I can only agree. Integration work is drilling hard boards. Mrs El-Nagashi has spoken of empowerment, of the same height, so really as I would understand and endorse it. Only: Would you like to talk to Mrs Kugler and make it clear what integration means at the same level? Mrs Kugler has access to the fact that she speaks of us and that the people who immigrate to Austria have to be educated: We must defend ourselves and our values, but that's not how it will be. You, Mrs El-Nagashi, have understood, but you should close with her for a moment, that would be good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Mrs. El-Nagashi, I appreciate your ability, your knowledge very much, just: You're a philosopher here like an expert in a parliamentary survey. Not to us, we should do that – you should do it! Letter You have a letter to yourself or to Mr Wöinger, to Mrs Kugler, no matter what! You have to do that! - Don't do it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. El-Nagashi.]] We don't know what's going on. The integration budget has been increased, which is gratifying, only the bad thing about it: As parliamentarians, we cannot learn what happens to the money. The Austrian Integration Fund receives almost the entire budget, but is an opaque black box, and if you ask – now I look at colleagues Shetty – it is thrown back with the reference to the provisions on the right of interpolation. Well, then, what do I have of the increase in the budget? – That I can in retrospect see who did what and with what costs? The public has no insight, but there is, of course, a intention behind it. Your integration policy, Mrs Minister, is being made in this fund, you are doing press conferences together, and the integration fund is, in particular, in the law, but we must not ask: What do they do there and how do they do it? German courses with bad curriculum were torn by experts in the air two weeks ago, because the curriculum of the Austrian Integration Fund is not recognized anywhere in Europe. The Austrian Integration Fund has now become an over-company workshop of the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen! There people are parked, from there they are taken, and he remains an opaque black box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26364	The last speaker on this subject is Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26393	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! What many do not know, Mr. Volksanwalt Achitz mentioned earlier: ==References== In July 2017, the Public Prosecutor's Office was entrusted with the settlement of the Home Sacrifice's pension. Children and adolescents aged between 10. ==References== In December 1999, they had to be accommodated and experienced violent crimes in the home, in the nursing family or in the hospital, they were entitled to a so-called home-sacrifice pension, which amounts to more than 300 euros. It is a small excuse and reparation for the abuse suffered. The number of applications made to the public prosecutor's office is still very high. Of course, the abuse suffered often weighs very hard on the victims. Many carry the load for a lifetime, and they understandably also find it difficult to talk about it. The author Josef Haslinger describes his own history of abuse in his book “My Case”, and he shows us clearly what overcoming it can be to talk about the violence suffered. He writes that he hesitated for eight years before turning to the independent victim protection attorney responsible for his case. This also shows why it can take a long time for the one or the one to be so far, and why there are still a lot of applications that come to the public prosecutor's office. The People's Procuratorate's Home-Sacrifice Commission assesses the facts of the applications received, and I am pleased that, as you have mentioned, the allocation of plans has succeeded in ensuring that the applications can be processed quickly and quickly, as it has already occurred that victims have died before the applications can be processed. This shows the urgency behind this home-sacrifice pension theme. It is also important to me – and you have also said this – that at the moment there is no backlog in the requests for the home-offering pension, but there is, so to speak, a bottleneck, delays in the clearing discussions; the reasons you have also mentioned. I hope that during the current pandemic and especially during the lockdown you will move forward rapidly in the process of these requests, because, as I said, it is the urgency of this issue that makes it so important. Finally, I would like to thank the lawyers in general for their work, but above all the head of the Home-Sacrifice Pension Commission Bernhard Achitz for this important and valuable work that we owe to the victims who have suffered in the homes, in the care families or in the hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26434	I do not have any more words to speak about this. The discussions on these topics have thus ended. I should like to thank the people's lawyers and the members of the Federal Government very much. [[19:26:42]] UG 32: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26458	We are now heading 32: Art and culture. Mr Mag. Mag has been reported to speak. Thomas Drozda. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26490	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Budgets are known to be political confessions. This is also true and especially in times of crisis. For Paul Klee, art – I quote – does not “represent the visible, but makes visible”. – Art allows us to look behind the scenes, behind the facades, allowing us to take a new look at the world. I think this quote – that's why I chose it – fits well with the art budget: The budget is not the visible one, it makes visible. It makes clear that there is also a beautiful facade in art and cultural policy, which counts much more than the life realities of the artists. It makes clear that public relations are not a substitute for substance. It makes clear that even with a budget increase of the devils can hide in detail. At first glance, we discussed this also in the Committee on Budgets, the budget is fine: at least 30 million euros more. It's not nothing, quite the opposite: More money for art is welcome, regardless of whether it is an increase for the free scene or the means for the renovation of the Festspielhäuser in Salzburg or in Bregenz. At the second glance, the thing looks a little different. If you look below the surface, then a financial no-one's country becomes visible. In this vandalized no one's land houses pandemic-stricken artists, I mention two examples. Example one: The 80 percent replacement for the cancellations helps the institutions, but it forgets the artists, especially those who are self-employed. The independent dancer, the independent actor, the independent mask designer: They're all looking through their fingers. It also looks gloomy for colleagues in lighting or sound technology. Nothing makes sure that their gages are also replaced. Under these circumstances, reason requires: Jobs Please make sure that the free art and culture scene as well as subcontractors have some of the revenue replacement! Example two, the artist bonus: It is an invention of the message control to spell some bonus from the hat. The artist bonus hopefully brings a few people through November, he won't secure existences. The labeling as a bonus alone is once again a cynical act, as we have already experienced with the early booking bonus today, as we have with the so-called bonuses for the unemployed: [[Abg. Fire brigades: (delighted) Early booking bonus!]] Everyone gets bonuses. In reality, however, it is not about bonus payments, but about the basic safeguarding of financing. This whole talk of the bonus means for those who actually fight for survival, just a look at the dominant lord mentality in pure culture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is it that follows from all of this? – The budget lacks clarity, truth and certainty in times of pandemic. It is worked sloppy, especially in the Ministry of Finance. It's more light than being. In particular, the revenue replacement has serious repair requirements. Our artists, the numerous employees behind the scenes experience really difficult times. Let us make it easier for them to do so and make sure that sales revenue also arrives with them! Let us make it clear that people are important in the arts and culture industry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, I put forward a motion for a resolution in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:31]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26643	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26670	Mr. President! Dear Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, 30 million euros more, that has never happened in art and culture. Looking back over the last 40, 50 years, you can see that there was always a little bit of an increase here and there, but to that extent there has never been. I would like to congratulate very much on this because it is really a big step forward for art and culture. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have discussed with Mr Großbauer before, she will take over the music part, and I will devote myself, so to speak, to financing, in particular the free scene. This is often such a term: the free scene. What is that? – The free scene is art-makers – and I am now deliberately saying this with the term creative, because it is used in this way. I don't actually use it, because the term actually comes from National Socialism and was then used in the GDR. So it's about people who work in art, art and culture, about artists who often make small stages out of a self-organisation, about making associations, about performing what develops gradually. Most major festivals, major events in Austria have developed from the free scene, whether they are film festivals or festivals of fine art or, of course, the whole area of performative art and above all things of dance, which in the last few years, one must say, has really taken a very large place, including through the festival impulse dance, which has also started very small, out of the free scene. This is actually the innovative scene that is gradually established in Austria. At the other end, if we want to do so, we have the great institutions of the Federal Museums and the Federal Theatre, which do not receive an increase in the basic fee, but are now financed because of Corona, so to speak, in order to get over the rounds, one has to say, but also the investments in infrastructure – Salzburg Festivals, this whole field – but also smaller areas that are to be renovated. It is important to me, and this is, so to speak, an area that is likely to become even more important in the coming years, on the one hand, the whole area of Fair Pay, that is, That those in the free scene are finally finally paid half fairly, that they have a good social security – in the sense of they can afford it – and they are not below these income limits. It is often said like this: Well, they do it out of passion. – Yes, I also like to be a politician out of passion, but I get paid properly, and this should be the case with the artists. Passion is not an argument against good pay or good insurance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I am of course in favour of the fact that the Windisch-Kaserne is finally renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26734	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Volker Tireberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26758	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! The fact that our federal government abolished the money in the Corona crisis also benefits the cultural budget. As a liberal cultural speaker, I am of course pleased. But if you look at the budget in detail, you have to find out: It's not all gold that shines. Let us begin with the positive! As a representative from the West, I am of course pleased about the multi-year investment in the urgently needed renovation of the Salzburg Festival houses, the Seebühne in Bregenz and also the future cultural capital of Bad Ischl. These investments are an important and necessary contribution and, at the same time, a small compensation for traditional Vienna-based culture. But now I do not save you to show you the shadows of the cultural budget. Instead of placing the urgently necessary increase in the basic fee for the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen in the budget, use the free funds as a game money, as a basket fee to be able to set your cultural policy fragrance marks or to keep your clients at mood. This makes Mrs. State Secretary Mayer happy, which probably also makes the friends of the Secretary of State happy. For many years, however, the basic remuneration of the Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen has not been adapted to the ongoing inflation and thus has a corresponding loss of value each year. Where do you think the Federal Theatre and the Federal Museums should be saved, Mrs. State Secretary? Maybe at the staff, now in the corona crisis, or at the quality? I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. State Secretary, you always comfort the Bundestheater and -museen to the time after Corona, whenever that will be. How honest or, in fact, how dishonest this consolation is, one can see when one looks at the Federal Financial Framework Act. This is because from 2023 onwards the cultural budget will fall sharply and much more significantly from 2024 onwards. Not only is your playing money gone, but there is only quite no room left for an increase in the basic fees. Similarly, no funding is provided for the additional costs of a long-awaited collective contract for the Federal Museums. The most important thing, however, is that you bring the art and cultural institutions, with everything that is somehow mediocre, halfway through the corona crisis. Unfortunately, the necessary resources are not included in this cultural budget, but must be renegotiated with finance minister Blümel in the future. The fact that Gernot Blümel has not too much left for culture has proved us in his former role when he was also Minister of Culture. On the Coronahilfe, however, it will depend on whether we will find a cultural landscape in Austria in 2022, how we know it and how we want it to be. Mrs. State Secretary, you want to make a great choice. I think that is good for you too, but you are unfortunately already failing to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26920	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is also under negotiation. Mrs. Maria Großbauer has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e26948	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Maybe briefly to my previous speakers: Mr Drozda, I understand that you have to speak badly of the cultural budget, perhaps because it is a bit annoyed that State Secretary Andrea Mayer and also finance minister Blümel did something you unfortunately never achieved, namely an increase in the cultural budget in a year by 30 million euros. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Col. Reifenberger, if Minister Blümel was responsible as Minister of Culture or Finance, the cultural budget has always experienced an increase – that is, that of completeness in the first place. However, I would like to contact you, dear artists, cultural managers, cultural intermediaries, intermediaries, all who work in art and culture. We are all aware - including my esteemed colleague Eva Blimlinger and also the Federal Government - that we are very committed here in Parliament, very much for you, that it is a huge burden for you in every respect. This crisis is a huge financial burden for you, a mental burden due to existential concerns, but perhaps also because you cannot exercise your profession, which is probably also a vocation for you. I would like to express my express thanks to you for the very professional efforts you have made in recent months with safety concepts and much more. Despite all efforts, it is unfortunately true that over 77 percent of all new infections were no longer traceable and thus there is a risk wherever people come together, even in the culture – even if my personal perception is that there has been particularly exemplary and professional work. It is therefore all the more important that the budgetary resources for this area, which is particularly important and important in Austria in particular, are given. This 2021 budget with a plus of 30 million euros, for the regular budget, is really sensational. The money comes in addition to the more than 200 million euros that this Federal Government has already provided for the suspension of the corona crisis. What does the Secretary of State for Culture Mayer intend to do with these 30 million euros? – I would say: Much, good and sustainable is ahead of her. It can be divided into three parts: On the one hand, important structures and institutions are to be supported, some of the so-called long construction sites will also be dissolved, some of the artists' studios will be renovated, the Albertina Modern will be led into the regular operation; the cinematic heritage must be secured. The second part, so to speak, concerns the second third, supports and invests in structural renovation projects that have been important and are coming for many, many years. Two cultural examples as well as tourist lighthouses in Austria are, for example, the Festspielhaus in Salzburg and the Seebühne in Bregenz. The Volkstheater in Vienna is also below. There is also 10 million euros for the free scene, for contemporary art. In this context, I would particularly like to stress that the Austrian Music Fund is being significantly increased, from 580 000 to 1.2 million euros. This is a long-standing and very real wish of the music scene in Austria. The Musikfonds supports professional music productions of all music genres of musicians in Austria – and this next year with twice as much budget. Mrs State Secretary, I would like to thank you for this excellent cultural budget, and I am looking forward to further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27005	Next speaker is Henrike Brandstötter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27029	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to divide my speech into two parts. In the first part, it is generally about the budget and then about something that is a matter of my heart. In general, the budget once again: We will not agree to this budget, but that does not mean that we also find everything in the budget to be bad, but we do not agree in large fashion. In principle, we welcome the increase in the cultural budget. We also find it quite great that there is more money for internationalization projects, but as always, the devil is naturally in detail. We wish for transparent and effective structures, especially in the field of support. Even the highly prized additional resources for the free scene can only be found in a single number of budgets, that is, we do not really know what is happening with the resources, and we are also looking forward to their priorities. For internationalization, we have made a very concrete, feasible proposal with the office for contemporarys and are also ready for cooperation, for input. As you yourself, Mrs State Secretary, have said, an art and cultural strategy has not yet been adopted. This has to change, even if we are ready for cooperation, because we also need to find out from this crisis mode and deal with things that have not yet been done before Corona, have not yet happened and must happen quickly after Corona. It is also to be said positively and to be heard that the cultural satellite account required by us should really come. This is important to finally have data to make evidence-based cultural policy. Remarkable and also very bad is that there is still no valorization of the basic fee, nor valorization of other annual funding or project funding. We're very sorry. Unfortunately, there are no new steps in the future of the truly important House of History of Austria. Director Summer is still being fed with very few resources, and there is no future plan. In spite of Corona, it needs a solution. We should also be thinking very quickly about how to solve a very big problem which is currently expanding again, namely the lack of visibility of our cultural industry in the last and also in the following months. Art and culture, that's food for the brain. We need to consider how we get more visibility for this industry. This will also bring me to a very special point in your budget. This lack of visibility in the arts and culture sector is particularly evident in this debate: Museums are now suddenly again important. People are sorry they're closed. Many miss the short trip to a gallery or Sunday afternoon in an exhibition. It could also be said that we are currently having other concerns, because the houses are closed because of a pandemic that is almost uncontrolled. At the many discussions on the closure of the cultural institutions for a few weeks or even months, however, the enormous relevance of art and culture can also be measured. Now I ask you to present yourself: How would it be if our museums, our castles, our castles, our monasteries, our churches, simply all the places in which we remove, exhibit or use artifacts of our past would be empty, if this were just more slow-moving shells and just look at a wall of the house? How would it be if all that matters to us were to be kept and exhibited in African countries instead of our entire cultural heritage? – This is exactly how a billion Africans are doing. They all have no access to their cultural heritage, to their spectacular masks, to mystical figures, to unique everyday objects – quite the contrary to European artists and architects, who can and can be inspired by the expressiveness and the formal language. What has been robbed or crushed in Africa, for example, has stimulated Le Corbusier into truly extraordinary buildings in Europe; that was the foundation stone for Picasso's African phase; it was the initial inflammation for Cubism. The discussion of African forms and aesthetics has marked the beginning of classical modernism and has also revolutionized European art. Contemporary African artists lack this source of inspiration. They cannot even be guided by the works of their own past, because an estimated 90 percent of African art is outside the continent. 46 000 artifacts are stored in Austrian federal museums, many have been robbed or the locals have been pushed off. But whoever has no access to his cultural heritage, who can't take a picture of his past, can't develop a picture, no idea of his future – and this, in turn, is a huge obstacle to development. I therefore very much welcome the fact that, in a first step, a small amount will be made available for the provenance research of African art in the Federal Museums, and I hope that this monetary initial inflammation will also provide a real return project by central artifacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27096	Mr Hermann Weratschnig is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27117	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The crisis is an incredible incision for art and culture, a burden, because we need nothing to beautify. Dates have to be postponed, appointments have to be erased from the appointment books – with the hope of being able to perform something again in a few weeks, to be able to act creatively. In the scene there is frustration, a standstill and concern and also a fear of the future. Because of this fear for the future, we are called upon to work with support to counter this situation with aid projects and, I believe, we can also support them. A large part will take over the budget, but it will not only be the budget, but it will also be a culture of art and culture to Corona, which we have to support throughout Austria. In support, it must be said that exactly the support that is now valid is very helpful for the artists, whether that is the contribution grant at the SVS, whether that is the special payment – EUR 1 300 – whether that is the one of the bridge aid funds and the Covid-19 funds that are handled through social security. All these are important building blocks. One sees in art and culture in particular that the money is also collected, that it is handled unbureaucratically. The reduction in VAT is also, I believe, a help for this area and, not to mention, for all the clubs. For the sports clubs, for the cultural associations, also for the animal protection associations, the NPO support fund has a very important importance for the fire brigades, and this support also takes effect. Despite this crisis situation, the budget for the next year will allow EUR 30 million to be increased. This is, I believe, an essential point, not only for the renovation of the Festival Houses and for Bad Ischl as the Capital of Culture, but also for the concrete promotions: More 12 million euros will be made available as regards the promotion of art and culture, 8 million euros more as regards special projects, where a very clear focus will also be placed on internationalisation. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I believe that these are important examples of what we are doing in the budget in spite of the crisis situation – a mood that we all wish for in art and culture – which is again characterized by passion, which is characterized by enthusiasm, in which we are happy to exchange again and are in the social contacts again in the foreground. This is what we wish for in art and culture. High house! Let us do everything we can to allow artists to rely on politics! That's our mission here in the high house. Art needs freedom, art needs its freedom! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27168	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27193	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Thomas Drozda has already said it, Mrs. Großbauer. He mentioned that the budget, which the Secretary of State Mayer has tightened up, is a solid, proper budget, including new priorities that are welcome. That is no question at all, if there were not a pandemic that the art and cultural institutions are facing before never before. The network for the suspension of this drama has been strongly tied, starting with the Hardfall Fund for Independents, the Covid-19 Fund of Artistic Social Insurance, the Overbridge Fund for Independent Art and Culture Makers, the NPO Fund, the comeback grant for film and TV productions up to – now new – the Lockdown bonus and the revenue replacement for cultural enterprises, from which the subcontractors hopefully still have something to do with and in which the submission arrangements need to be clarified. Some of these instruments can be combined, some are not, and the submitters tell us that the order of submission is often decisive for what they get now or not – both or just one or none. Even for me, who I have worked 11 years in the field of support and with guidelines and solutions, I think I know quite well and have no fear of deepening myself there, there is a bit of a difference in the face of that. How do art and culture creators first have to work through that which suffers from fears of existence and which are already very burdened? That's why I have a proposal: It would be to be considered if one should not set up such a thing as a support manager for art and culture creators – an online tool almost – which could quickly provide the art and cultural creators with information about a few key questions, which is appropriate for them, and thus provides guidance. But something else is also important to me: These many measures, which I have now spoken of, must also be dealt with, and they are the people in Austria's economic service, the artist's social insurance fund, the financial office and many other institutions working daily to ensure that the money that comes from the art and cultural institutions also arrives at the art and cultural institutions. They do it from the first day, have to implement under the most difficult conditions, what is required, see that they achieve this quickly, and this under high pressure – they too are afraid of the pandemic – and mostly without a break in summer. Thank you at this point once to all these people who handle the arts and cultural promotions every day! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] Just a moment ago, because the time is running out again: Please, look closely at the art and cultural institutions of the federal government! We know that there is an incredible loss of revenue there. This is not the case in the budget. a great deal, the EUR 3 million is not sufficient in the case of an item. We already know from the area of museums that there are 55 million euros missing in 2020, and 2021 will not be much better. Please, don't miss that! I miss them very much, the art and cultural institutions of the federal government, which I can no longer visit, but also all the other theatres and museums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27247	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Martin Engelberg. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27271	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! We talked a lot about numbers. I want to talk about art and culture and life. I don't think it's a pleonasm when I say, Art and culture need life. What do I mean by that? – I have the picture of a basketball in front of me that jumps up for so long as you keep him jumping. If you don't do this for a while, the ball will jump on for a while, but once it's on the ground, it's very hard to get him to jump again. That means, art and culture need commitment, need commitment. This is something that the government cannot afford, that is what society has to do and what we all have to do – across all parties – as representatives of the people in the best sense of the word. I believe that only then will we realize that this works across all parties and works in society if we not only distribute vouchers so that people can buy a piece for free, but so that they can, for example, afford and take advantage of cultural achievements. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Tashner.]] Thank you. I believe that we must give a perspective especially at the present time of art and culture. I think we have experienced that it has been very painful that all art and cultural institutions have already been blocked in the first part-lockdown – knowingly to ensure the incredible efforts of all cultural institutions, the safety and health of visitors who have made much more efforts than many other facilities that have remained open. Now all are closed, but we have to make sure something: Once the temples of consumer culture are re-opened, this cannot happen without opening the temples of culture. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Kucharovich.]] Although schools are being re-opened, we do not forget that cultural institutions are the country's second major educational institutions! I believe that we can assume that both consumer institutions and educational institutions, i.e. schools, cultural institutions will certainly be more concerned about the safety of visitors and their health. I think we should keep this in mind – all of us! – and not only want to boast of art and culture without doing anything for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27321	Ms Mag.a Andrea Mayer spoke on an opinion. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27350	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to thank all the speakers for their commitment to this debate on art and culture and also for their commitment to making it clear here that art and culture are publicly funded in Austria and that there is no need to justify it. I would also like to thank all the political groups for their recognition, in addition to these 30 million euros, which are provided for in the regular art and cultural budget for 2021. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] We all know that in this all-dominant crisis situation called pandemic, art and culture are two of the worst affected areas of our society. It is obvious – and you can really believe it – that every day, every hour, every minute of the new will be brought to my attention and I also accept this challenge at any time, because it is a privilege to be active in Austria for art. That is why, when it comes to the 2021 budget, I want to try to look at this budget without corona at first – and that makes sense, because the 30 million euros plus which we have estimated in 2021 are independent of the expenditure needed to manage pandemics in the cultural field. They are a real plus to the regular budget of art and culture, an increase as it has not been for decades, and that is exactly why it is so gratifying. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The planned use of these 30 million euros is divided into three parts. Firstly, we will launch major construction projects that will work far beyond the cultural sphere. Secondly, we will address some of the major cultural sites that have sometimes needed solutions for years. And thirdly – that is very, very important to me personally – we will put strong emphasis on the promotion of contemporary art, across all art sectors. In the first of these three areas we are going to take on necessary renovations with two of the major signs of the Austrian cultural landscape: Bregenzer Festspiele and Salzburg Festival. These large construction projects for renovation and renovation have nothing to do with a preference of high culture, as sometimes stands in space, but they are necessary investments in important cornerstones of culture in Austria. Austria is known all over the world for this. These festivals, which must not be forgotten, seem far beyond their own programme, their own artistic output, and therefore it is important to make the basis of their work – the buildings, the technology, the workshops, in the case of Bregenz the very heartpiece, the sea stage – for the future also spatially and technically fit. If I think of Salzburg – you certainly know the recordings of the raincast coming through the ceiling during a performance – then I can only say that it is time for us to do this, and I am very pleased that we have been able to express such a clear commitment here from the Federal Government, which will go far beyond the 2021 budget and even beyond the current legislative period. The second major area of this budget increase concerns, as mentioned, other long-term cultural sites, which we can finally complete. We will raise the funding for the three major Vienna private theatre Josefstadt, Volkstheater and Theater der Jugend, thus giving them planning security. We can provide funds for the question discussed for years, how to secure the Austrian film heritage in the long term. For example, we can also take part in the federal studios in Vienna's Prater – places where art is created daily – carry out important renovation work. This brings us to the third area, which, from my point of view, is completely central and a core task of my department: the promotion of art. In previous years – I know the art and cultural budgets much longer than I actually love, that is, decades – it was often so that if there were any increases in the funds for art and culture, they were flown into large projects and for the actual promotion of art very little remained. It was my concern to make a difference this time, and that is why we will make much more money flow into art promotion next year than we did in the years before. We start where the money arrives directly with the individual artists: at the scholarships. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will spend a total of 1 million euros, both at the level of a single scholarship and by increasing the number of scholarships to be awarded. We will set up new funding rails, which will enable us to promote projects that have not yet been eligible, because they have not fit into the old funding canon of the art and culture section. Projects are likely to be supported there that are innovatively dealing with the current situation with artistic resources. The central instrument of film promotion in Austria, the Austrian Film Institute, on which a large number of artistic actors depend, also receives an increase of 2 million euros – as much as has not been done for more than ten years. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The funds of the Music Fund, which has helped so many Austrian bands in recent years to break through and also to continue international success, are more than doubled by 1.2 million euros. I could now list many more examples and projects – from Fair Pay to Digitalization Acts to the major topic of internationalization – but I would like to limit myself to an example because it is my heart's concern and because it is a great project for Austrian culture, and that is the appearance of Austria as a guest country at the Leipzig Book Fair in 2022. Especially in this difficult time, it is important that we already project concrete projects for the future and not only plan them, but also implement them. I really think this is a project whose value for Austrian literature cannot be estimated to be high enough, and I also share this assessment with the main association of book trade and the entire book industry. This will also be an opportunity for Austria to present itself as a country of contemporary art in Germany, also in the international environment. I am looking forward to the preparatory work we are now doing, and then, of course, to the visit to Leipzig itself in 2022. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I am therefore returning to the starting point of my speech, in which I have not yet talked much about Corona. Especially now that much is frustrating and everything is just about this topic, we need such projects that we can look forward to giving us hope and inspiration. I am very happy that we have been able to make enough financial resources to make it beyond Corona; that does not mean, by the way, that we can actually think art and culture without Corona – on the contrary! That is precisely why the Federal Government has taken a number of measures to mitigate the impact of this serious crisis on the cultural sector. The sales revenue of 80 percent for the current Lockdown benefits all cultural enterprises. There have been organizational stumbling stones for two days, which were immediately fixed. This political commitment and agreement is quite fixed that all cultural enterprises, no matter what size and form of law, can achieve this 80 percent revenue replacement. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, I was also aware that the free-creating artists also need compensation for this second lockdown, so there is a compensation for them at the SVS of 1 300 euros net in addition to our bridge financing in the month. In other words, a freelance artist, who is independent at the SVS, receives 2 300 euros net in November. And someone who has been inspected within the framework of the hardness fund can get up to 2 500 euros and in addition this lockdown compensation from the SVS, so he gets a maximum of 3 800 euros net. This support is not available internationally in any country. Many artists also confirm to me that they are very happy to be able to live here in Austria. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in your speeches much was the talk of the federal institutions, which are really large, central flagships of our culture and for which we are also world famous. You don't have to worry about the federal institutions. The Bundesmuseen and the Bundestheater have already received 34 million euros in addition to dealing with the corona crisis in 2020 – in addition 34 million euros! This means that the federal institutions, both museums and theatres, are very good at the rounds. Overall, the additional resources that the Federal Government has used in this crisis for art and culture amount to over 220 million euros. This is a rescue screen that can be seen internationally. I do not want to be celebrated for this, but it is already to be seen that the Federal Government has caused and done the necessary thing here. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Part of this corona means will be taken along next year and will continue to be available through the various funds, and there – I can assure you that, ladies and gentlemen – where it is necessary, we will also take the necessary additional resources in 2021 to ensure the survival of the art and cultural landscape and also to enable a strong, creative restart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27483	Mr Katharina Kucharovich spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27508	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would just like to make one statement, since I am speaking here for the first time at the plenary session on the 2021 budget, and it has often come today: We are discussing a budget which we have been discussing last week in long budgetary negotiations in the Committee, which is not at all the same as the stage in which we are now sitting, namely the lockdown of two, which has begun today, is not taken into account at all. Quite open: This is actually a farce – a farce to us MEPs, a farce to Parliament and a farce to the whole population and the Republic, and that for the second time in 2020! I just have to find out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now to the very central area of art and cultural policy: I would like to talk about the reality of the life of artists; by the way, I do not do this for the first time. We all know that the reality of life of many artists is simply not the yellow of the egg. Corona has often given many in art and culture, including those who work in this context – I would like to mention light and sound technology, for example, the suppliers, the service providers in this area – the rest. I remember the spring when we were standing here and asked for a comprehensive rescue shield from the very beginning, which does not leave anyone behind. And yes, there are these funds, Mrs State Secretary, which she has listed. These funds have been established by Peu à peu, but no one really knows each other. It is inconceivable, bureaucratic, and it still does not have anything of it – by the way, not the revenue replacement that you have just mentioned, therefore also the request of Mr Drozda, which was made today, because simply all of these 80 percent could get revenue, namely those who are not necessarily in front of the red curtain, but also those who are behind it. That's very, very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to talk about a very central aspect. It is not just Corona, but, as I said, the situation of life is very, very precarious for many artists per se: once self-employed, once self-employed. This is something that often leads to many being in poverty with one foot. That is why my very specific question to you, Mrs State Secretary: Of course, there is a fair pay aspect in the budget, but this is just a strategy development for fair pay, and no one can pay the rent or living costs yet from a strategy development! It's still missing. The proposals are on the table – from the interest community, from the IG culture – for example fees and much more. I ask you: Do you do this if you grant funding from the federal government? You could really serve here as a best-practice and example model. We do not find anything in the budget. That is why I appeal once again to put on my feet fair-pay measures, which are on the table, in the sense of artists and in the sense of all those who work in art and culture. Please put it in place! Urgent!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27559	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Rudolf Taschner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27583	Mr President. High house! Before I agree to the praise for increasing the art and culture budget, I would like – and, of course, it is not a farce that will be increased, but that is fact – to place a footnote. It is indeed in the crisis that the need for solace, if you want to, after relief, grows strongly after encouragement. Some try to find it in religion, which has hardly been heard in this crisis, which in itself is a very interesting cultural phenomenon, and many try to find it in art. For example, as a symbol, I would like to add the following: ==References== November, on this terrible day of the terrorist attack, when the opera audience had to stay in the house, four Vienna Philharmonics in the orchestral grave with art have been able to lift this situation with art in fear and concern. Interestingly, they played Haydn, so not a contemporaries. But however, we will, of course, promote many contemporaries with this budget and, of course, we are aware of the risk that this funding may not only promote permanent and valuable, but perhaps also spirit and albernes. You have to take that up, but, Mrs. State Secretary, I know you have a keen look at making the right choice here. There are no fragrance marks, as has somehow been announced, but there are, in fact, substantial promotions that help us. I'm pretty sure you have this look. I am less sure, for example, of the city of Vienna, Mrs Brandstötter. It is a bit strange how the future government paints the cultural and art programme. This is actually just more of the same, something empty. – Highly interesting, that was not the case earlier! There were accents, for example, by Jörg Mauthe or Peter Marboe – but now? Once, centuries ago or perhaps decades ago, the Social Democracy carried the fire, now it at best manages the ashes, and you believe that you can still warm this ash in this coalition. [[towards Abg. Fire brills]] That won't be the case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there's still fire that's burning up culturally, and this fire can be seen, for example, at the Salzburg Festival. There it has been wonderfully successful, great success, and there it has really been achieved to send a signal in a precarious corona situation – Markus Hinterhäuser said that – “the strongest, vital and most essential” signal that can be sent to the world. That is why it is also good that we support, for example, the Festival Houses and many other projects; Mrs. State Secretary, you all mentioned it. These are all great accents that are set, a coalition as it is formed in Vienna – I would say one should call it rust red – can take an example. I don't think that's going to be quite the case in Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27638	Next speaker is Mrs Mag. Ruth Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27668	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The figures show: The share of the cultural budget in the total budget has fallen from 0.6 percent to 0.5 percent, and this is a problematic signal in relation to the overall situation we currently have. This for several reasons: Culture is particularly important especially in difficult times, because art and culture give identity. Freedom of art is a measure of freedom as a whole, and those who consider the art of a country immediately recognize the degree of maturity of democracy. And in times when people's fundamental rights will be circumcised, a strong signal for art and culture would be particularly important. With a courageous cultural budget, one could say: There's light at the end of the tunnel!, but this opportunity has not really been so low in this budget. I have artists in my circle, where a lot of trust has been lost. In the first lockdown, they have perceived the situation so much that the understanding for them, for their living situation, has missed out on the side of the government. That was their impression, so they perceived it. There is now also a Group of artists – we have heard this from the media – who have decided to file a constitutional complaint. I would like to thank the artists, whose work I have been able to experience in the various theatres in recent weeks, at exhibitions, for the opportunity to do so. I have experienced excellent performances and felt safe from Corona every second, because the safety concepts were excellently designed and were also implemented with great care. Dear artists, dear artists, I wish I had a budget that expressed more appreciation for your irreplaceable work, but there will be better times in politics and also in relation to Corona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27707	Magnificence comes to the fore. Maria Smodics-Neumann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27732	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear consumers of this plenary session, which would have been phased into an art form in the afternoon – in which, to say that, I do not measure myself personally and leave it to the eyes of the viewer, so to you! Art and culture are not only an enrichment for society, they are identity-building for our country, they influence our emotional world, our well-being, for example, by being able to look at beautiful things, by experiencing a musical listening pleasure, and they are, above all, closely intertwined with companies that supply or restock their achievements. Mrs. State Secretary, I can very much thank you, on behalf of listeners and spectators, of art and culture makers, but also of the industrial partners in art and culture for increasing the budget for 2021 by 30,1 million euros; in addition to what the Federal Government has already done in recent months for art and culture: the bridge fund, which was originally donated with 90 million euros and increased to 110 million euros and was extended to March 2021, the one-time payment for artists, summa total support measures worth 200 million euros. But it must be clear to all of us: It stands and falls with us. The more we keep together, by keeping our distance, the sooner the costume tailor, the visa-gistin, the lights, the sound technicians, the catering companies and many more orders will be able to do more, the sooner the artists will be able to follow their passion again and the sooner we will all be able to enjoy critical plays, for example, a humorous cabaret or also a catchy concert. We have it in our hands, we do it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27762	Mr Hans Stefan Hintner came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27786	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! We have heard 30 million euros more budget, we have from the effort due to the corona crisis, of which 220 million euros belongs – but you will find a hair in every soup. What people do we have to do with personalities? – If you know that Ms. State Secretary Andrea Mayer has worked very closely with then Minister of Culture Josef Ostermayer, who – and I know that from Josef – has an excellent personal relationship with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and with the Minister of Finance, he is ultimately also the Board of Directors of the Leopold Museum; and if you know that Jürgen Meindl was then appointed by Thomas Drozda as head of the section, then you can also see that there is a certain confidence in individuals who have always had responsibility in the culture. So I wonder, What would Josef Ostermayer or Thomas Drozda, then also with their relations, have done differently in communication than today? – I think, very, very little. No one can tell me that this communication is not happening today. The intensification of measures must be legitimate, for we all know that the devil is sometimes in detail, as with the non-profit cultural enterprises, where not only the Vienna singer boys are meant, but also the Stadttheater Mödling. However, I also find the appeals of certain personalities outside of Parliament remarkable. While those who say friendship in Vienna and in Lower Austria greet God, some feel compelled to let go of their tyrates against the Federal Government in a certain political security. Such statements remind me of the Berlin ensemble rather than of the Josefstadt, for example, where at least a Max Reinhardt director was, an Otto Preminger, a Haeusserman or also an Otto Schenk, but for this the house is then rewarded with 1.8 million euros of additional funding from the city of Vienna. We have heard the Secretary of State; it is an impressive report, and that is why I can also ask back in the field of culture. Let's make this possible! And as Karl Valentin once said: “Art is beautiful, but it does a lot of work” – also in politics, especially in challenging times!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27829	The last speaker on this subject is Mrs MMag. Dr. Agnes Totter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27850	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at home in front of the screens! Austria is a great art and culture nation, where art and culture are very rich in us: from the smallest initiative, from the smallest project in a small place to the high culture at the large houses in the capitals of the state and in the federal capital as well as at the festival. And everywhere, it is great people who carry art and culture to create and make possible. For all this use, I say a warm thank you from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am particularly pleased that this commitment is also taken into account in the present budget. The budget for art and culture is rising in the coming year, which has already been mentioned, from 466 million to 496 million euros. The Federal Government therefore foresees an increase of 30 million euros compared to this year. The art and culture industry is particularly hard hit by the Corona pandemic, which has already been mentioned today, but there have also been numerous direct and indirect support measures. The increase of EUR 30 million in the budget is all the more encouraging as the corona aid measures are independently estimated. For decades, the largest budget increase in the arts and culture sector has enabled many years of construction sites in the cultural sector to develop, place on new legs, and also set strong new accents for contemporary art and cultural creation. In concrete terms, the 2021 budget provides for the following priorities: plus 8 million euros for renovations, special projects and internationalizations, including that already mentioned today; in addition to the 12 million euros already planned for the general renovation of the Volkstheater in Vienna, which I am particularly pleased to see as an enthusiastic theatre visitor; additional funds for the general renovation of the Festival houses in Salzburg and Bregenz will be made available; and measures will be developed that will lead to a sustainable improvement of working conditions in the cultural field. I would like to thank all those responsible for the commitment to financially safeguarding art and culture in Austria. As mentioned above, the corona crisis is also a major burden for art and culture-makers, but I hope that we will be able to move towards normality again in this area in the coming year. However, I am sure that even a pandemic like this does not change the creativity of the local artists, and I am already looking forward to various contributions in the field of art and culture in 2021.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27898	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[20:34:48]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27920	We are now entering Division 12: Outwards. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Petra Bayr is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27947	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine, we write the year 2016, the Foreign Minister is Sebastian Kurz, the budget of the ADA is 77 million euros per year and the Foreign Minister promises a doubling of the ADA budget by 2021, i.e. up to the current budget. This meant an increase of 17.5 million euros each year. It's not that way, it's not the case. It is fine that there is also an increase this year, but if you calculate the Lord's promise – now Federal Chancellor – in short with what we really have, then more than 90 million euros are missing in this period of time. This is 90 million euros, for example, which could have been introduced into pretty many villages of flowing water and could have relieved women and girls, in particular, from the physically very heavy work of the water cave; a work that is often accompanied by sexual assaults that happen somewhere on the way between the source and the village where they live. That would have Women and girls also gave time to go to school, for example, or to do a paid job. With these over 90 million euros, however, one could have supported, for example, very successful and great Austrian NGOs, such as light for the world, who are incredibly successful in making blind people see with very simple cataract operations, who are incredibly successful in giving children with disabilities the opportunity to go to school anyway, learn a profession, and also give people with disabilities a real chance to take up a job and lead a self-employed life. However, with the lack of more than 90 million euros you could have supported small farmers, but you could have seen that they have suitable seeds that they get chickens or other small animals with which they can build a rich economy, which allows a village, for example, to provide food safety with a silo or grain storage. That's a lot of missed odds. It is fine, as said, that there is more money, all that I have now mentioned is an important basis for development cooperation, but even more important is development policy. You, Mr Minister, certainly also know that it is a drilling of very hard boards to convince all of his colleagues to do coherent developmental work in all sectors – from culture to the economy to science. We even had the coherence in the law, so all the conditions for it are given, but there really needs to be a concerted action to make development policy coherently sustainable policy. I hope there's something going on sometime.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e27992	The next speaker is Mr Reinhold Lopatka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28017	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Corona crisis, the challenges of the crises that have gone ahead are repeated: 9/11, the 2001 terrorist crisis, 2008 the financial crisis that has been very busy with us, and then 2015 the refugee crisis, now the Corona crisis in 2020 – not the first, but certainly the crisis, which is more dramatic and deeper than the previous ones. Why do I say that? – Because, at the beginning of such crises, it is always called upon to hear of its own government that it should do something – governments are required. In the second step, however, responsible politicians always come to the conclusion that real solutions, sustainable solutions are only possible if the state community is acting together. This also applies to a crisis that we have at the same time, but which is not in the perspective: the climate crisis. In this respect too, the nation state alone cannot do anything, but together we can achieve a lot. Then Austria also gets into the game: Vienna is one of the four UN seats. Vienna is home to more than 40 international organizations. A comprehensive headquarters study has been prepared by the Institute for Higher Studies in 2018, and this shows very clearly that this is also a very important area for our economy in the Federal Capital. More than 18,000 jobs, many highly qualified jobs are thus secured, and many people work in these international organizations, for example at the nuclear energy authority alone, at 2,500. This brings us to the 500 million euros on the revenue side. The budget – and the total budget for the external sector – on the expenditure side is not even EUR 5 million. This also means that in Vienna there are 120 bilateral and 197 multilateral diplomatic representations. Vienna is really a centre of international, multilateral policy, which now also has a new opportunity after the US elections. It is very good that the Federal Minister is now presenting a law of office in order to create more security for these institutions, but also to ensure that it is better assured when conferences are held with us in Vienna. We, as parliamentarians, can also make contributions to this. I am sure that in the first half of 2021 this will work with the corona vaccination and then in July we will have the 5th. World Conference of Parliamentary Presidents will be held here in Vienna for the first time, the World Conference has always been held in New York or Geneva, in which more than 1 000 parliamentarians, 178 states, will meet the leaders of Parliament, parliamentarians and parliamentarians. But that's just an example. For more than 20 years, parliamentarians from 57 OSCE member states have been meeting in February, 400 to 500, and the OSCE, which we have seen in the conflicts in Belarus, plays a very, very important role in Ukraine. That is, the head office. Vienna is a very important area in which the foreign office does a lot. Most of the work, however, happens abroad, where much is done. Only a few figures in one area, because time has already progressed: The “Yearbook of Austrian Foreign Culture” recently published is an impressive proof of what is done with few staff: [[The book “Austria Kultur International. Yearbook of the Austrian foreign culture 2019]] 6 594 events at 2 381 locations with 5 695 project partners and more than 9 000 artists and scientists. – Our foreign office did this alone in the 2019 cultural area. This is a great achievement, ladies and gentlemen, and as has been said, just one example for many others, where the foreign office represents the interests of Austria with our diplomatic corps very well, but not only represents the interests of Austria's best, but makes very important contributions at European level, but also within the United Nations, when it comes to a positive development of the state community. For this, our diplomats, at the head of our Foreign Minister, are grateful to us. Every euro we have made available in the budget for the foreign sector is a euro that is multiplying through this work, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28071	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Before the next speaker comes up, I would like to say something that I said at the last sitting, because I always notice: Those ambassadors who wear a mask always do it in such a way that when they go to the speaker's desk, they place the mask on the speaker's desk exactly the same place. I think it's better to put them in and not put them there, because then maybe wearing the mask could have little effect. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: Very nice!]] [[Further call to the NEOS: He's right!]] [[Abg. Lausch: (in the direction of ÖVP) You do it!]] Mr MMMag has now come to speak. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28142	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! Reference to the budget: A line in the budget outside: “EU Turkey Refugee Facility” – a somewhat complex term, i.e. funds that we as the Republic of Austria have to make in fulfillment of the deal, I say now, between the European Union and Turkey to deal with the task of 3.8 million refugees, who are stranded in Turkey, so to speak. This amount has now been increased from EUR 1 million to EUR 6.4 million; the total amount of this deal between the EU and Turkey is EUR 6 billion. This is very, very much money and leads me to one of the five challenges mentioned in the foreign policy report, namely first asylum and migration policy. I would like to address the proposed solutions, which, in my view, are in many parts only sham solutions, apparently solutions. It is referred to by Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz, also by representatives of the European Union, repeatedly as the removal of the causes of unwanted migration by supporting the countries of origin. That sounds very good, just, finally thought, we will not be able to eliminate these causes in the countries of origin worldwide. Then again and again, external border protection is called: The EU's external border protection must be strengthened, including one thing, more or less a thing of impossibility. That's thousands of miles outside. The declaration by the EU Ministers of the Interior on the occasion of the terrorist attacks, the Paris Declaration, of course does not include strengthening, namely the subsidiary strengthening, the state borders within the Schengen area, but it will all be postponed: We protect the EU's external borders. – I think this is a schine argument, a sham solution. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: We are... EU!]] The third solution proposal, which has now been brought by the EU as part of the new migration and asylum package, is the so-called mandatory solidarity, i.e. the redistribution of refugees within the framework of the European Union, i.e. in Europe. These are sham solutions that do not hit the core of the puddle, which does not solve this problem, which is recognized as such. No one except the Freedom Party is saying that the real problem in truth is the so-called pull factors, the attraction factors, the factors that motivate people to come to Europe. These are, of course, the high amounts of money – these are very, very high cash benefits for people from countries such as those from which most come, and this opens up a large business model for investment accounts of various towing organisations. That is, of course, the permanent awakening of false expectations among these people; I only say: Where's the car? Where's the house I was promised? This is the permanent non-compliance with law, for example, the permanent non-compliance with Dublin II. This is the permanent ignoring of the fact that law is not implemented. I should just like to point out that only one third of the people with negative asylum status will actually be postponed. This is the permanent confusion of asylum law and economic migration. And this is also the somewhat indifferent access to that, I would even say, illusion that people are integrable, who do not want to integrate themselves at all. Mr Nurten Yılmaz has already said today that the Integration Fund is an opaque black box, so you also have to look closely at it, especially the relationship between costs and successes. The success per se cannot be given if people say on their own: I don't want to integrate! So these are the things that we have to deal with in truth, instead of presenting sham solutions, on the part of the Federal Chancellor, the ÖVP and the European Union, on the part of Macron and Merkel, who say: We eliminate the causes in the countries, we are doing the EU's external border protection, although this de facto does not work. 20 percent of the entry into the Schengen area is not registered at all, and it says: That is what we are improving, we are focusing on the mandatory solidarity of distribution within the European Union! These are all not solutions, but only solutions – I have already mentioned the real solutions to the problem. Again: The FPÖ is the only party that not only addresses the real problem solutions but also implements them.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28182	Mrs. Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28206	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. After the heated internal debates it is, I think, long time to look over the edge of the plate, because in fact the world is in a state of change. I do not know whether there has been such a break in the last decades, and we do not actually have time for demagogy, but need concrete solutions. The climate crisis, wars, escape, old and new conflicts and a global pandemic remind us of how interconnected this world is and how we also depend on each other, nationally, in Europe, but also internationally. Peru, Bergkarabach, West Sahara, Ethiopia or Nigeria are currently giving a witness. 48.4% of the world's population live in a democracy, 51.6% not. The world is therefore largely undemocratic, and it is by no means influenced by prosperity and peace for all. Unfortunately, democracy is not a matter of course where it exists. Since 2016, for example, the USA has been called incomplete democracy, not least because of the dissatisfaction in the population, the lack of confidence in existing public institutions, but also because of polarization, the division of society. This polarization of society, but also in the foreign policy of President Donald Trump, showed us in a terrifying way how fragile these international relations are. The election has recently led us to see how defensively a rule of law must fight for this democracy. We also know that your solidarity is anything but a matter of course. Poland and Hungary are currently blocking important aid that has become necessary to protect the Union from a breakdown, all because they do not want to recognise the rule of law as the highest ceiling of a democratic state. Hungary is going even further. Hungary wants to change the Constitution in order to be better able to discriminate against LGBT people in the future, Poland in order to eliminate the rights of self-determination. And yet: Overall, the democratic index records a growing political participation of the population. There are protest movements in the United States, Hong Kong, Belarus, Poland, but also in Sudan, the democracy movement is taking place. Nevertheless, these positive trends – a strong civil society and the increased participation of women in politics – can not frighten us that only 20 countries receive the predicat of full democracy. Human rights are currently being trampled not only in Iran and Saudi Arabia, but also in Europe, also at our external borders and inhuman camps for refugees there. We cannot save the world, but we must try it as it is said – tirelessly and without a doubt, that it is worth it, and yes, also as small Austria, and not only so that we do not fall out of the global fabric, but because we know that as a smaller country we also have the power to move things. The budget has achieved such significant improvements in the area of development cooperation, humanitarian aid and the foreign disaster fund. The voluntary basic contribution to UNHCR will be quadrupled in the long term. We strengthen Austria's peace competence through the civil peace service and mediation facility through initiatives in the area of disarmament, the prohibition of autonomous weapons systems, climate ambassadors, citizenship for persecuted Nazi regimes and their descendants. These are all important and correct successes. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, the budget for the foreign policy sector, Mr Lopatka has already mentioned it, accounts for only 0.6% of the total budget. This is, we say, modest for a state of office for international organisations. That's where it takes, I think, no wrong shame if we want to strengthen Austria further and more as an international player on the international stage in order to secure peace for the next generations, but also if, out of responsibility and commitment, we give people to the promise that we work for equality and justice for all. As illusionary as that sounds, that must be the goal. The global challenges must not be an obstacle to this, but the search for complex solutions will only satisfy a complex world if we explain it to our highest limit. All in all: It's hopeless to change the world, but it's not responsible to try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28271	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Brandstätter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28295	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dziedzic said it quite correctly: We are talking about a very small part of the budget, but in In reality, we are talking about all our future, and the colleague has already rightly addressed some of the very big challenges. We found out: The Asean States join forces to form a free trade zone. One third of the world's economy is there. We know what is happening in China. That is, China has strengthened its position there again. We face the major challenges of the pandemic, as are the major challenges of the economic crisis. We do not know what will happen in the United States. So now that Mr Trump has recolored his hair on grey, we can assume that he has become a little more reasonable. One has to stand to his gray hair, and one must also stand for democracy, so we assume that he withdraws in time. We don't know. However, Europeans, President Macron said it right, have to take care of their own security themselves, we have to do it ourselves. This too is an essential challenge; I believe that the biggest challenge lies with us in Europe. Another point was quite correctly addressed: As for what Mr Orbán is doing at the moment – and, Mr Federal Minister, I know, we are completely in agreement, it is about the rule of law, it is about rejecting it, it is about preserving the rule of law in Europe – what he is doing here is beyond what we, I believe, are allowed to endure. Let's not forget. That was a Communist boy. He himself was a Communist, and now he says the EU is developing towards the Soviet Union. – Yes, please, let us slow him down in the face of these absurdities! It not only insults the EU, it insults all the victims of Communism and the Soviet Union, and that is immense! Where does the European Union stand, where the responsibilities stand and where they say: Mr Orbán, you do not need to take our money anymore, you can say goodbye!Unknown term type: "%s".? In Poland I have the impression that they are more pressing back, the government parties are also a little weakened by recent actions, but Hungary is immense, and I really expect a very clear statement from you, Federal Minister, because ultimately it is about the values that make up Europe. Today I brought a particularly important book from Orlando Figes. [[The speaker gave the book “The Europeans. Three cosmopolitan lives and the emergence of European culture’ in height.]] I would really ask to read this, as part of the lockdown is also a lot of time. The book is so fascinating because it shows that Europe has always developed a lot further, most often when people have come together. It begins with the 1840s, when the railway was initially expanded in Western Europe, then also towards Russia, and it tells of three interesting people, namely Pauline Viardot, Turgenev and also the husband of Ms. Viardot, of an interesting triangular relationship, but above all of the realization: Whenever people have come together and exchanged culturally, humanity has developed the fastest. And that's what makes Europe. On the other hand, where it does not work, we must say: That's where we have to defend ourselves. And we talked about it in the Committee on Budgets last but not least: What is happening in Belarus is also true of us. We must not allow Mr Lukashenko to have people murdered there. That is why I believe, of course, that we need to talk about sanctions – not the country, not the people, but those who support this dictator so far. There are possibilities – the Magnitski-Jagd, you know that – and I am very much asking that we talk about it again. I know you were more careful, more reticent, but I think it is very essential that we also discuss sanctions. It says you're threatening. There is also an international criminal jurisdiction, and Mr Lukashenko is supposed to know what he is dealing with. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally – and I am very happy to say this –: Nice greetings and many thanks to our diplomats! Wherever I was allowed to travel abroad, I met great people. We are sometimes critical of certain careers in the foreign office, but I have already found one: If you meet these Austrians abroad – by the way also from the economic services of the Chamber of Commerce – party politics doesn't matter at all at all. This is an example of what we could actually do here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28358	The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs of Schallenberg is reported to speak. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28380	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! I find it amusing, honourable Member, that you want to abolish party policy precisely in Parliament. This is somehow the base of the High House – but okay. We all know that 2020 is not a normal year in many respects. It is a year in which our society suffers from the far-reaching consequences of the pandemic, a year that international politics with a whole series of inflamed crises and conflicts, and a year in which on the 2nd of July, it will be a year. In November, Islamist terror also showed its fragility in Austria. There is no doubt that 2020 is a year of crises, but despite this accumulation of unique challenges that all of us face, the Federal Government has never failed and has always found clear answers. This also applies to this budget, please. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] As Minister of Finance Blümel has already emphasized here in the House, this budget is the answer to the crisis in figures. It supports people in this country, especially the domestic economy as best as possible, so that a path can be found out of this crisis as far as possible, but – and that is important to me – it does not forget the international dimension of this crisis and that we must not lose sight of our international commitment, even in difficult times. I am therefore very grateful that a budget will be available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs next year, which, in the history of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, really provides a significant increase of over 51 million euros. That's, ladies and gentlemen, very well invested money. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has demonstrated at the height of the first Covid-19 wave in spring that when it comes hard, it is his wife, his husband, and that our network of embassies and consulates is not a luxury, but a life insurance for the people of this country in times of crisis. The corona pandemic, I believe, has emphasized to all of us the other day in all its clarity that we simply cannot fail to have an independent, independent, international red-and-white-red network. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Just to give a few numbers: We have organized this year the largest recovery action in the history of the Republic. We have over 7,500 people safe. brought home. We have helped that more than 1,100 people have come home by flights from our partner countries. We have had individual contacts with over 14,000 travelers from Austria. After the hotline in 1450, we operated the most demanding hotline in this country, and in times of crisis we have handled around 225 000 requests for information, which is a tenfold increase compared to the previous year. We organized dozens of export permits and landing permits at the height of the crisis when it came to bringing medical supplies to Austria quickly. And we helped the domestic economy quickly and unbureaucratically if it faced difficulties or if its employees had to be secured. The embassies have also provided urgently needed, reliable and up-to-date information on the pandemic and the measures in other countries as the eyes and ears of this Republic. How big the need for information was in this crisis has already been shown on our own that we have had more than 24 million access to our homepage since March. This is more than a fivefold increase compared to the previous year. On average, every Austrian has taken advantage of the services provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs twice this year. This was and is a logistical master achievement in my view, and for this I really owe my sincere thanks to every employee and every employee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And this is happening, as we have just heard from the honourable Member, with 0.6% of the total budget – these are already achievements that can be seen. That is why I believe that these additional funds are well-established money for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we are still in the crisis. The pandemic will accompany us for months, and a brief look at the world map clearly shows that beyond the Covid-19 crisis, we have a number of challenges that Austria will demand. If you look at the world map, you can even say that it is burning at all corners and ends around Europe: Mountain Karabakh, Belarus, Syria, Lebanon, Iran, eastern Mediterranean, Libya and, lastly, Ethiopia to mention just a few examples. There is also Europe everywhere and Austria is required. With the present budget, the Federal Government is responding very clearly to the worldwide increasing need for humanitarian aid and is sure that Austria will continue to be a reliable partner in the future. The funds of the foreign disaster fund will be more than doubled to a volume of EUR 52.5 million, and the ADA funds will be increased by almost EUR 11 million. I'm not going to let this go small, neither from the opposition nor from anyone else! An increase is better than no increase at all, and in the years before we had no increase. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I liked the following sentence very much: We cannot save the world by ourselves, but we must at least try it and make our contribution to it. In addition, as a minister, I am particularly pleased, and this is almost a preparation for the next crisis, because it is quite certain – we have almost 13 million euros available in the next year's budget for internal improvement. 7.7 million will be invested in the internal IT structure. This is an essential point in view of the cyber-attack we experienced at the beginning of the year. 5 million euros will be available to strengthen the security of the representations and the representation network next year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! With this budget for 2021, we can ensure, under the present circumstances, that our services for the Austrians in the country, but also abroad, are guaranteed that we can fulfil our mission as a representative of interest in this country and, in particular, the economy, that we can make a substantial contribution to the relief of disasters worldwide with the foreign disaster fund, with development cooperation, and that we can meet our commitments in the form of contributions to international organisations. And let's say something: Of course – that has been addressed several times – this budget also enables us – and I have repeated it many times in this House – to stand up for our values. Rule of law is not negotiable, neither within the European Union nor outside the European Union. In the last few years, Austrian politics has been particularly distinguished by the fact that it is highly value-based, and I can assure you that it will remain in the near future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28489	Mr Melchior has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with something that has already been done by Mr Brandtätter, thanks to the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I know that some of them will be watching – honestly not because of me now, but because, as I know, they have always been very happy to observe these debates. On this occasion I would like to recall a story that happened a few days ago. The ambassador in the US, Martin Weiss, posted a photo, and no, it was not about the US elections or the color of the US President, but about something that we decided unanimously here in Parliament last year, which I am extremely pleased to say: The first descendants of NS victims received Austrian citizenship in the Embassy in Washington and were delighted about it. I also received feedback, which was a very special moment for these people. I would like to thank you very much for allowing me to experience this and that we have decided this together and unanimously with all of you. It was a really great thing we did. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is really great. Minister of Foreign Affairs, you mentioned it earlier: The diplomats and the staff in the representative authorities have made an incredible recovery action. 7 500 people have been recovered from 29 countries. It is not a matter of course that this worked so smoothly – a really great action. A great action is also the fact that the representatives of the 600,000 Austrians are there for corporate services and support people as much as possible on the ground. In this global network of Austrian representatives we have, every cent is very, very well invested. I am pleased that there has also been an increase in financial resources for this purpose, as it is a great service for the Austrians. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] We have not only the representation network, but also the task of helping where we can. You mentioned it earlier: The foreign disaster fund has been doubled to over 50 million euros. The funds for development aid and the foreign disaster funds – now more than 170 million euros – are increased by more than 27 percent. That's really good news. On the one hand, it is our political responsibility as a Christian-social politician to help where there is a need for help, and on the other hand I am convinced that it makes sense to combat the causes of migration and poverty on the ground and to use the means to do so. – Thank you very much for this opportunity. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] Finally, I would like to say one more thing: It is not a matter of course that these resources should be increased in times of a corona crisis, but I am convinced that it is the right way and way that we should continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28580	Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28601	Mr President. Federal Minister! Corona 2020 not only slows the journeys of the Austrians, but also migration and refugee flows. However, the Federal Government should not rely on this, for it is crucial for the refugee flows to be aid on the ground, for development cooperation. On-the-spot assistance in crisis areas is in the government programme, but what is the reality of local aid? – In Moria, the help on the ground of the Federal Government has not worked. The offer of the mayor of Vienna to take in 100 unaccompanied children was indeed rejected by Turquoise-Green. Now there is a new area of conflict, its name is West Sahara. The Western Sahara is actually a classical colonial area. Although Morocco is the colonial lord, there are classic military occupations, military oppression, exploitation of land resources and exploitation of cheap labour. The Western Sahara is thus the last colony in Africa, and human rights are massively violated by the colonial lords. Austria must not look away – that is, the eyes open! The SPÖ has tabled a motion for a resolution which I would like to make known: [[Quoted print version removed]] In West Sahara there is also a foreign mission of the Austrian federal army, where soldiers and soldiers are stationed. Active neutrality and foreign policy is required. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28720	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Reimon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28745	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! From the point of view of development policy, this budget decision is very welcome. Austria has no tradition in the area we can be proud of. Three major parties in this House have been responsible for Austrian development cooperation for decades, and we have always been far below what we have committed ourselves internationally and what we should do internationally. This will change, we are on the way, starting from – from our point of view – much too low level, but it is doing something – and that in great steps. When we negotiated in 2019, the budget for development cooperation amounted to 92 million euros. We now decide 114 million euros – 20 percent on it. This is once an important increase in the right direction, and much more important I find the increase in foreign disaster aid – where we help and intervene when it has to be fast and urgent, as we are now looking after Ethiopia, Africa. As a green person, we took this over at EUR 15 million and increased it to EUR 52.5 million. We will try to bring a large part of it into medium-term projects to provide sustainable assistance. For the short-term, up-to-date aid, there will still be more left than there was. This is urgently necessary and goes in the right direction. I'm glad when SPÖLER goes out and says: You could do a lot more. - That's right. You had time for decades, we're doing it now. That makes me proud of this budget. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is almost even more important, however, in this political change that not everything we do about major developments is budget-relevant. Austria can't do everything budget-relevant, we know. We will vote against the EU Mercosur Trade Agreement. It is an agreement that European industry, in particular the car industry, would prefer to export, and this is what the EU wants against agriculture. Exchange imports from the Amazon region. This would be the world's largest deforestation agreement, the most ecologically disastrous agreement in the world, the most harmful one in the world. I have been campaigning against neoliberal free trade agreements for 20 years, and now the first one will fall. - It's wonderful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28787	Mrs Kucharovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28808	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We are celebrating this 75 years of United Nations. I think it's a anniversary that we can be proud of, even because a seat is in Vienna – an absolute rarity. At the same time, I wonder a little bit about it – when we celebrate in such a way – that the funds for international organisations are falling. By the way, I also wonder if I am thinking about the increase in the foreign disaster fund, why money is being made available to Greece – I have referred to it – and these funds on Lesbos have not arrived in Moria or in Kara Tepe. We know this about people who are volunteering there. It doesn't matter there. Everything disappears somewhere in containers, and children, women and men are still in the mud, now in the cold. To be honest, this is a very clear violation of human rights, and I expect the Federal Government to do what has not yet been done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are human rights violations – the colleague has mentioned it – in Lesbos, that is, in the middle of Europe, but of course also in our neighbouring country Hungary – quite, quite vehemently for some time. It's quite clear: We have been seeing for years a development that is directed against gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transients and intergenders in Hungary. The President and his policy are responsible for this. This is both dangerous to democracy and, of course, to human rights violations and to discrimination and maladministration of the LGTIQ community. The latest charge of Minister of Justice Varga, who wants to anchor in the Constitution that the mother is a woman and the father is a man, is an absolute discrimination and injury. At the same time, she also wants to send a simple law to enable the adoption of children only for married couples, which de facto prohibits the adoption of rainbow families. Mr Federal Minister, this is a celebration of homo- and transphobia in the Hungarian constitution against which we must act. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please agree, we will stop discrimination! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28937	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Engelberg is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e28961	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! My whole life has actually accompanied me that it has bothered me that Austria has always positioned itself between the fronts, between the camps, from a self-understanding point of view. Perhaps this was also the attempt, in the wake of National Socialism, to be there as far as possible. I always thought this was a big mistake. The first relief was, of course, the accession to the European Union. We now also have the flag here, which is always a great pleasure to me. That's what it's all There has already been a first clear commitment that we feel that we belong to the Western community of values. However, no government has so far made it so clear that we are part of the Western world, the Western community of values, the community of values such as rule of law, democracy, equality – and that in a close strategic and friendly partnership with the United States of America. That's a very important positioning, and I think we're right. I also think that our relationship with Israel has also become one that is completely different from that of earlier times. Israel used to be just a country of conflict, war, terror. Today Israel is a friendly partner to us, a country that has an infinite potential in all areas of science, technology, agriculture, water treatment, which is also part of our Western community of values. I'm very glad. One last word on development cooperation: It does not become more true if one repeats it a hundred times that Austria was not one of the countries or perhaps even the country that helped the fastest in Greece. As one EU Member State deals with the aid of another EU Member State, this is something that we probably do not have so much influence on. But fact is and remains: We have helped quickly and resolutely and now also equipped ourselves with enormously increased resources from the budget. I can only say: In this regard, we really need to congratulate the Federal Government, the Federal Minister, on taking these steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29003	Mr Strasser has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29025	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Only two good reasons why it makes sense from an Austrian point of view to engage internationally: One is the corona crisis. In the internal policy discourse we often give the impression that Austria would be affected by the crisis and no one else in the world. A look at Europe and a look at the earth, all the health systems in the world are fighting to put some sort of stability in the situation. The second is climate change. These uncertainties of economic, social and environmental nature need stability, which we can only ensure in the international context. That is why I am grateful, Mr Federal Minister, for the two projects that Mr Reimon has already mentioned and which I can stress. One is the foreign disaster fund, with which rapid assistance is possible, but I would also like to mention the development cooperation in which the SDG 17 on the global partnerships is a very important project, with which it must be possible to ultimately develop food security, the rule of law, democracy, health and education systems through regional commitment, but it is also necessary to draw lessons from the Corona crisis in the international context. To that end, I say: There is, on the one hand, a move towards more regionality, more national or continental independence, but also an honest discussion of how many international economic relations it takes so that we can finally keep our national and regional systems in balance. On the figures in the short term: External disaster fund: 2019 15 million euros, 2021 52.5 million euros – a rich plus. If this is the case, then the development cooperation will be added as follows: 2019 117 million euros, 2020/2021 177 million euros – this is a strong plus of 51.5 percent. Estimated Minister of State, the best greetings to your employees – we are on a good path! – and thank you for the heart blood and your commitment. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29061	I have no further comments to make on this subject, so the discussions on this subject have ended. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his coming. [[21:27:24]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29085	We now come to Division 13: Justice. I should like to welcome the Federal Minister, whom I have already seen. Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29110	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The minister is not in the room yet, but I still start with the positive. The budget for justice will be increased by 65 million euros in 2021. The focus will be on the execution of the sentence, and in particular on the execution of measures, the key word asten. Victim protection as well as adult associations will receive more support, and that is also good. – Hello, Mrs. Minister, nice to see you! [[towards the Federal Minister, Zadić, taking her seat]] As with the 2020 budget, this remains to be borne in mind: The increase for 2021 in the field of justice is sufficient just once to maintain the ongoing operation and to achieve minimum targets. In the core area of justice, direct judicial staff, however, it is still at the front and the back. I am thinking of the law firms, judges at the public prosecutor's office or the judicial institutions – there are too few staff everywhere. This is what the employees are trying to compensate as well as they can, but that can't go on forever. The tasks of the judicial system are increasing, and they sometimes become more time-consuming – for example, I would like to mention major proceedings or international economic procedures. As a further example, I do not want to mention the package on hatred on the network, which brings important improvements, but also requires more staff for justice. The judicial representations have called for more than 70 judges to allow the package to be properly implemented. In the 2021 budget, there is no provision for a single office for judicial staff in the ordinary courts. I find this alarming, Mrs Minister, with all the appreciation for your commitment to obtain more resources for justice. In addition, justice is heavily burdened by the corona crisis. It is very important, once again, to implement measures. He has been in desperate need of reform for years. The number of inmates has tripled over the last 20 years and the utilization is currently 120 percent. Now I am returning to the positive, and I would like to express my great appreciation to the Austrian judicial system in particular. It enjoys a high reputation in international comparison and, despite difficult conditions, delivers an enormously high quality. She's also left in times of crisis. In order for it to remain that way, it must remain strong and independent. So, Mrs Minister, let the justice work by also getting the human and financial resources! Make everything available to maintain this quality! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29155	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29176	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It is little surprising that I would like to stress at this point how much I am pleased about the increase in the judicial budget once again. Since the last budget already financed justice for the first time without recourse to reserves, 2021 can be invested with an additional 65.8 million euros in important and urgently needed projects. This is an investment in the digitalisation of the court, in the protection of violence, in the protection of victims, in the prevention of fraud, but also in the beginning of the improvement of the implementation of measures. There is a tremendous improvement in the field of victim protection, for example, by the fact that children who have had to watch violence in the closest social area have received psychosocial support, especially if they still have the difficult task of having to report on these events and experiences in court. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The law package against hatred in the network provides for the possibility of using the aid of the court in the case of private creditors in the investigation of the perpetrator or the perpetrator. This is exactly the area in which the injured have often failed because the providers simply did not want to give the names. Now they have to do this on court order. Civil law will have its own special proceedings, which will quickly allow the enforcement of an injunction order so that hate postings do not have to remain on the Internet until a judicial procedure has been disputed. This is also a huge achievement and something that will be financed by the new resources. At the time, in September, October, when the judicial budget was being negotiated, the Minister of Justice has already laid particular emphasis on the fact that the funds for parole aid and also for deradation measures are increased considerably. Both are measures that are immensely important to reintegrate offenders and offenders into society after their imprisonment, to resocialize them, to support them in finding work, and to lead a regulated, law-reliance life. Why are we doing that? Why do we invest money as a society in the reintegration of criminals? - We're doing it out of pure self-interest. We're doing it because it's an investment in our security. Another issue, which is very important in this area, is the law enforcement itself, and there is also a focus in the judicial institutions. In some, more and more short-term trainings are offered, in which prisoners acquire partial qualifications, even if they pay shorter prison sentences, So they have the opportunity to find a job right after the release. This sounds abstract now, but in reality it is so that they acquire, for example, from the entire teaching profession of a vehicle mechanic in a few months or in a relatively short time, those skills they need to work later on, for example, in a tyre trade. This means after the release: instead of social assistance, insecurity and intensification, a job, self-deserved money, the opportunity to show that you can do something, and an environment, a circle of friends that are completely different from before. That's exactly what happens when it's accompanied by parole aid, so that this person can find the way back into a regulated life. There will also be very targeted improvements in the field of action, for example by expanding the Forensic Centre of Asten, which will be increased by 100 seats. The recruitment of qualified staff already makes a significant contribution to a more quality support and at the same time also to a discharge of staff. The way we want to go is one that continues and leads in the right direction. The next step is to decide on this judicial budget now.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29241	Member Stefan has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29262	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there would be a lot to discuss in the area of justice, many problematic developments, such as the problem of hatred in the network with network barriers and similar, very problematic restrictions. [[Abg. Maurer: Net locks?]] – Yes, network barriers are also provided. [[Abg. Maurer: No!]] - Yes, of course! We will still be able to discuss the content. The latest measures provide for the issue of encryption for Internet communications up to preventive. So we will be able to discuss a lot, but today is not enough speaking time and the time is also very advanced, so I will confine myself to the budget. At the latest since the short-term justice minister Jabloner said that justice is dying of a silent death, much has been said about the financing of justice. That's where we've heard beautiful tones now: Justice is financially well equipped. In recent years, we have also noted that there has been a strong under-employment of the staff, especially in the judicial guards, in the judicial prisons, – and my colleague Lausch will certainly do more – and this, although the prisons are completely overburdened by the foreign offenders. But despite these great words, that there is now this budgetary equipment, disillusionment becomes widespread when you look at it in detail. In the field of judicial guard, there is no or almost no increase in staff, no more planning posts, no discharge for judges and prosecutors, since there is no increase in non-judicial staff. The increase in the budget of 65 million euros this year is very rapid when you look at what is foreseen in the budget by 2024. By 2024, there is actually an increase in the budget of 1 percent in total. In any case, this is below the expected inflation rates of 1.2 to 2 percent for this time, so the budget will actually be reduced again in the next few years, even though we already know how tense the situation is. Even in this tense situation and in this one-off budget one has to take into account what is involved in this increase in the budget: There are additional expenses in the field of victim protection, there are additional expenses related to hatred in the network. There is the acquisition of legal advice by the Federal Agency for Assistance and Assistance Services, the implementation of the innovative experts, additional expenditure in the field of probation aid, increased advance payments on special rate compensation at the Bar Association Day, cost increases and actual expenses in the execution of the penalty, the additional payments to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and much more. All of this is already included in this 65 million euros. That is to say, if one can now take into account the crisis and assume that revenue is perhaps lower and yet an even greater effort is being incurred, there is no relief at all. Therefore, my conclusion, all beautiful words and all the numbering games in spite of: Justice continues to starve.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29312	Mr Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29333	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated members here at the Hohen Haus! Citizens' values! With its 1.8 percent of the total budget, the judicial budget may be small, but it fulfils a major task in our state. The justice sector consists of four parts: This is first of all the area of prosecution, in which prosecutors and prosecutors ensure that suspected offenders are held accountable, second, in the field of case law, in which judges apply our laws and decide on disputes between citizens, but also on penalties for offenders. The execution of the sentence is the third area in which law enforcement officers, physicians, psychologists and therapists ensure that the convicted offenders in prisons do not pose a threat to the public, and in which efforts are made to resocialize the prisoners again. And the great fourth area is that of the judicial administration, an area that the entire organisation of justice needs, with the billing of fees, the accounting of personnel, the legal system, and the legal caretakers for the company's book and book. All these people who work for our justice are part of the foundation of our rule of law – a warm thanks to them all, to each one of them who gives his best every day in the field of justice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mrs. Yildirim and Mr. Stefan have just complained very much about what is bad about justice. In my opinion, in the boat with our Minister of Justice, I know that the development towards this budget has a history: first, the only continued budget from 2019, then the budget for justice created in May 2020 with a huge increase of 72.4 million euros, which has brought 4.4 percent more to justice, but above all – and above all, the colleagues of the Committee on Justice and the colleagues of the House – it has provided us with a large number of additional posts in the various areas: 40 additional prosecutors, ten judges, in The area of criminal enforcement 16 positions, 100 law firms and much more. That is what we need in justice, that was the follow-up, and of course we have to occupy in a first step these positions with people who can also serve justice well. What I am particularly pleased about is that we have now set up a budget for the next few years and, for the coming year, we will be able to achieve an increase in the expenditure framework by around 66 million euros. That's a lot of money! That's a lot of money for our justice. I may also mention some of the priorities of our government programme, which will succeed in implementing this judicial budget: One is victim protection. We want the victims of violence and hatred to be better accompanied in their procedures with professional psychological assistance, but also with legal assistance. For this, there are 4.2 million euros more, 44 percent more than last year. This is an essential step. I would like to thank you very much for this negotiation, Mrs Minister, because this priority for all of us is an essential one. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For the execution of the penalty: It is not the case that the execution is not properly equipped. 19.3 million euros plus 3.4 percent. We have ensured the necessary resources to ensure that the judicial institutions can be built up accordingly, and also that our judicial guard is equipped with all the necessary equipment. We are particularly concerned about the security of our judicial guard. Furthermore, there is money for parole aid so that the perpetrators can also be well cared for after detention. Another essential priority for the implementation of the Adult Protection Act, which helps better and more personal care for vulnerable people, is that the necessary money is provided for the adult protection associations. In the case of legal aid, which we are also providing, there is also a higher cost for lawyers. It is important for me to finally be able to roll out the project of the electronic file, so to speak, really Austria-wide. Justice needs digitization, you can see it in the Corona era. Where would we be if we had not already begun to create these opportunities? Thank God there is currently enough money available that the project Justice 3.0 can also be rolled out accordingly. I believe and am convinced that we will create a really good basis for the work of the next few years with the Justice Budget. I am looking forward to the implementation of the projects, I am pleased to be able to continue to accompany justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29403	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29425	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister for Justice! High house! Dear Seers! Over many years, Parliament has been presented with judicial budgets which have not brought any good to the rule of law and to the judicial system in that country. These budgets have put the judicial system under constant pressure, because at the beginning of each budget year it was clear that: Never mind. What was the result of this notary sub-financing? – Just because there was no money, we had temporary stoppages for legal practitioners. As that then to Protests led to a few billions of them being scratched out of office materials to maintain the judicial system in some way. With these constant savings, the judicial system had to fight massively with the staff, especially in the field of law enforcement staff. Judgments and charges have not been made. In addition, there are missing experts and interpreters. This still has an impact, even though we are facing the gratifying fact today – and I really want to congratulate you very much on the success of this – that you have made the change. The budget for justice is thus now so equipped that the ongoing operation can be financed without the need to resolve reserves without having to resort to external financing. However, the consequences of this notary sub-financing are still to be felt. I can report on cases – and these are not individual cases –: For example, a procedure for the appointment of an adult representative has been pending at a Tyrolean District Court since March 2019. Until now, it has not even succeeded in ordering a temporary adult representative – and this has consequences. This has massive consequences because in the case of creditors who want something from the data subject. As long as the procedure is not completed and no adult representative is appointed and this person has their full rights again or is ordered one, an execution ban is applicable and claims cannot be made. This is an unreasonable state, something has to change. Even if this kind of reform is currently being dissolved, it will be very important to pay attention to the fact that it remains the standard that justice really receives the funding it needs. Justice has a very important role for our society, and I would like to present this briefly on the basis of figures, so that the relations can become clear. In the media public justice is mainly condoned with criminal law; purely in numbers, and I would also say, from quality, but the civil sector is much more important. If you look at the cases that occur annually at the court, about 510 000 in 2019 are civil cases, 600 000 outlaws, and only 80 000 criminal cases. That is to say, this civil function is extremely important for the functioning of society. It is not for nothing that justice in the architecture of the Constitution is its own pillar next to the legislative and executive. That means that we must never again afford and allow ourselves to sub-finance justice. We NEOS are always available there, so that there is really enough money. However, it should not only remain with money – this is a requirement for us to be able to make offensive, active judicial policy in the field of content. In the budget hearing, it was gratifying to hear from Mr Kathrein, head of section, that a novel on child care rights is planned for the next year. This is very important because there are sometimes very, very complex and complicated procedures in which people have to wait far too long for decisions. You can certainly make this much easier. So there's a lot to do here. Mrs Bundesminister, we NEOS are ready. We help, we are active supporters of a modern, efficient justice. I hope you accept this offer, and thank you for your attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29480	The Minister for Justice has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29506	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! Justice is currently in a trend change. After more than ten years of saving, after more than ten years in which justice had to resort to setbacks, we finally made the turnaround. With the last budget, but also with the present budget, it is finally possible that we do not resort to the reserves that we can not only maintain the current operation with the Justice Budget, but also to the many long-term reforms and also to the many necessary projects. At this point I would also like to apologize for not being able to take part in the Committee's deliberations, and at the same time thanking the officials of my home who have been competent in the Committee and also for the figures you find in the budget. At first glance, when you look at the figures, you can see what a central role justice has in times of crisis. Justice is not just a source of legal peace. It provides for public order, it simples disputes, it persecutes offenders, it protects the weakest of society. She's here for everyone. However, justice can only function and fulfil these important tasks if it is sufficiently funded. The 2021 budget ensures a functioning judicial system. The Federal Ministry of Justice receives 65 million euros in additional funding for 2021. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] If you add this to the staff increase that we succeeded with the 2020 budget at the beginning of the year, you can see that this is a great success for justice. At the beginning of the year, in the spring, we were able to properly increase at the courts, the non-judicial staff, the prosecutors, but also in the execution of the sentence, because it was simply necessary to stop the savings and to take in new, additional staff. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this budget, we can also move forward some important projects. The associations that we have committed ourselves to in court, namely the adult protection associations and other associations, can also be further financed by this budget. For example, there are now 2.6 million euros in additional resources for the adult protection associations, to support adults who cannot arrange their lives alone. One point has already been mentioned today, namely the protection of victims. We also want to increase massively in the protection of victims. That's two reasons. On the one hand, with the package on hatred on the network, we have helped to ensure that people affected by hatred and violence can even seek psychosocial support, but also legal support. That is why we also increase this budget by 4.2 million euros. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] As the Ministry of Justice, we have also committed ourselves to the establishment of the BBU to finance legal advice in a second instance. At first, there was great concern as to whether the necessary resources will be available at all. I can tell you: At EUR 5 million we can also finance independent and professional representation in the field of tourism and asylum. The same applies to the data protection authority. How often have I heard this year that the data protection authority urgently needs personnel, and how often it has been said that in the many, many procedures pending with the data protection authority, Nothing goes on because just not enough staff is there? – I can tell you that in 2021 we increased the data protection authority’s plans by 15 percent. We have also increased the flat-rate remuneration of lawyers; a very important institution, as one finds when looking at procedural aid. The aid is for all those who cannot afford to claim a lawyer who cannot afford to enforce their right. This is where the lawyers are being used through the assistance of the proceedings, and for this they are paid a flat-rate remuneration which we have finally valorised after a long time and which increases by 3 million euros. Another important project, which has also been mentioned, is digitisation in justice. Justice 3.0 is constantly being put into the mouth, but everyone knows that the money will cost if we really look at all the justice, the prosecutor's office, even the district courts, the national courts, if we want to have a fully digitized act. I'll tell you: I am willing to invest this money because it is simply important that justice can work in full digitization. Especially in times of crisis, we have seen the enormous importance of digital justice. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now I come to one of my main tasks, which I have repeatedly announced since the beginning of my term of office: the implementation of measures. You know, the implementation of measures has actually been reformed for a long time, but it simply lacks money. We can now also take some important steps with this budget to reform the implementation of measures. The Forensic Center of Asten is expanded by another 100 places. That is why we need to do so because we have already already exceeded the capacity in the implementation of measures. There will also be additional support staff. We want to increase by about 60 people so that we can finally take further steps together to reform the action. In this context, of course, there is also the increase in the fees of the psychiatric experts. We know how important the quality of the psychiatric experts is, because they finally decide whether or not to take action. They decide whether someone is incompetent or accountable, or at least they prepare the basis for the court. A professional review is therefore essential, and that is why we will also increase the fees that have not been valorised since 2007. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It will also be increased in the field of probation aid. Ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned it, the parole aid will be increased by around 2.3 million euros, because professional and close-out parole aid, which helps to resocialise people, is essential and important for a secure society, but also for the relief of judicial institutions, because the lower the rate of retroactiveness, the more the judicial institutions will be relieved. Covid was also mentioned. We have already made available funding for Covid measures in this budget totalling EUR 4.4 million. But, of course, this budget does not cover all the areas in which the last ten years have been saved, it is not possible to cover everything you would like to move forward, and thus a drops of advertising is the lack of an increase in the Interpreting fees. I can only assure you that I know what incredible commitment the interpreters make and how important the use of interpreters in a trial in which justice is. That is why the interpreters deserve my greatest thanks, and I will certainly continue to work in the future to ensure that we increase their fees, as we have foreseen in the government programme. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: As you can see, there are numerous successes in the area of justice that allow justice to continue to play its central role in society. I am pleased that we have achieved an increase this year. I am pleased that each individual has worked for this, and I am grateful to the officials of my home, especially the officials of the presidential section, who have supported me in the budget negotiations, but also in the committee. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29631	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29652	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stefan was so kind before me to list many areas in which there have been improvements in the budget, and some where there might be more. The Minister of Justice has also been so open and honest to present where there have been improvements and where we still need reassurance. I would like to refer to a group in the rule of law today, which I am also listening to, namely the lawyer's office, which could be thought to be a good thing with this budget, is now the lump sum payment for procedural aid of 3 million euros. Now, first of all, to order this: The solicitorship now provides services in the area of procedural assistance of approximately 40, perhaps 42 million euros. For 14 years, these have been paid on a flat-rate basis with the unchanged amount of EUR 18 million, which is now EUR 21 million. So we have only half of the rate of payment of the aid. The rest, as it is so beautiful, we do pro bono, and that is quite out of conviction, because it is honorary in the lawyer's office that a procedurally-helped client is represented as decently, well and expertly as if he were to pay every single hour. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The solicitorship is often exposed to criticism, leading to longer proceedings; it is always so one-sided and always tolerated the evil offenders. In truth, however, it is like this: Free and independent solicitorship is a cornerstone of our democracy and it is our task to ensure that it remains. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] Where lawyers are no longer solely committed to the interest of their clients, but are bound by any objectivity or even state interests or state instructions, the democratic rule of law ends. I would like to stress this at this point because as a Greenman I will always work for this free and independent lawyership. We don't know how For a long time, we may be in opposition again in the next legislative period – and we do not even know when it begins, but I ask the whole House: Make sure that this attorneyship remains a bearing pillar! It will only remain if it is free and partial. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29706	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29728	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The budget in the field of justice is once again a stopping of holes. That would have to be better budgeted from our point of view, and that is not what the government is doing. But what the government is doing is an outdated rental law, which the ÖVP refuses to reform. This outdated rental right ensures that up to 20 different legal bases are possible in a single house, the tenants no longer know themselves, and even lawyers often have very difficult to look through. The award system is so bad that legal disputes pass through many instances; I know cases in which each instance decides differently about the rental height. Has this budget made provision for it to go faster in the future? - Nothing like it. This budget does not provide for any additional office for judges. The rental right does not fulfil the task of keeping rents cheap and low. Every fifth rental euro is a speculation euro, and it has been confirmed by the Austrian National Bank that much too high rents are taken up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many Members here in the House want to improve rental rights, encourage improvements, and the proposals are all for consultation in the Building Committee. But do you know how many meetings of the Building Committee we had this year? - Not one! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] There was no meeting of the Building Committee! The government does not work, but it looks at how the rents explode in this area. By the end of the year, people who have taken advantage of rent rates must repay their rents plus 4 percent interest on default. What's next, what's coming after the 31st? – Nothing; there are no measures to be taken. It is not the safe living fund that I have proposed, it does not come to the universal rental right that everyone understands and that would make rents cheaper and cheaper, and it also does not come to an increase in housing aid to build additional social housing through the federal government. This government is driving the Austrian housing market eyes against the wall, and I am appealing to you, Minister of Justice: Get active in this field! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29783	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29804	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stefan has already addressed the Federal Minister, apart from Clemens Jabloner, today. I should like to replicate his report on the level of expenditure on the subject of justice. I've done it. At the time, it noted in this report that EUR 1 732.6 million is needed for the year 2020 to finance the ongoing operation. I can say that this amount has been achieved by the Federal Budget for 2020 and I can also say that there is an increase of EUR 65.8 million for 2021 compared with the previous year. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What happened and what is achieved with it? - We know the numbers. In 2020, 295 planning posts were created, and with the additional amount of EUR 65.8 million compared to the previous year, a number of measures were budgeted, which I do not need to repeat – the Federal Minister has already mentioned them in detail. It is important for me, ladies and gentlemen, that all these measures ensure independent jurisdiction and strengthen legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, as construction spokespersons of the ÖVP, I can use the discussion on the field of justice to address also legal issues relating to the field of justice. We have agreed in the government programme with our coalition partner, the Greens, a modernisation and modernisation of the housing property law. I should like to draw up a few points, for example, that necessary conservation measures are better implemented. The issue of modernisation also has an important objective. Measures such as adaptation of the delivery rules and consent requirements or facilitating decision-making with the creation of new majority relationships, of course while respecting legitimate minority rights, but also, of course, including the reduction of costs, are planned. This will create reliefs for the individual owners. I am thinking here, for example, of the construction of private electric filling stations, photovoltaic systems or also of a suitable design for the disabled, which is to be made easier. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that in the foreseeable future, the novels of the housing property law can be added to the parliamentary process and that the modernisation of this law will soon be felt by the affected population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29853	Member Schrangl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29874	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to start with a quote from a speech that was given here a few years ago. Maybe you'll find out who kept it. Quote start: “Only one area did not get at all, and that is the execution of punishment. No cent of this security offensive goes into execution, although there is a massive need for action there. Especially from the point of view of Syria returnees and jihadism, there is an urgent need for action, because we have a group of people who need to pay increased attention – the word radicalization – by doing deradization work and prevention work, so that the prisons do not become a hotspot of jihadists.” Guess who said it? – It was not a freeman, but the long-standing green judge power. Albert Steinhauser to budget 2016. The quote continues: “You have completely forgotten that!” – Yes, you have forgotten. The consequences of this oblivion, I don't think, need to warm up here and today, we all know. The Minister responsible at the time was, like the Minister before him and the Minister after him, from the ÖVP, so this child-moving, which the Federal Government has made in the last two weeks, is quite ridiculous. The ÖVP is to blame for this mistake. The ÖVP is politically responsible for radicalising young men in Austrian prisons, and the ÖVP is politically responsible for not being or being prevented from doing so. Now, Mrs Zadić of the Greens, you are the Minister of Justice and responsible for this budget. That is why I would like to give you this quote from your group's longtime judge. Take care of it and get it. You have new expertise in this field – and by the way, in the action you have referred to, especially with regard to the Asten Justice Centre! The old ones of the ÖVP have done nothing, and in the future you will be measured by the acts of former prison inmates.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29916	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29938	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! This budget is a budget of the present and future and certainly not a budget of the past. I think we should see the power of the great steps and the power of the small steps. It is a great judicial budget as a whole: 65.8 million euros for justice. This is a great success in negotiating. Thank you very much at this point to our Minister of Justice. I am very pleased, however, that we have also provided for a corresponding teaching in the area of data protection. Almost 4 million euros for data protection means an increase of 35 percent. This is important because data protection is legal protection, is consumer protection. In my opinion, the successful chronology began on 1.1.2014 with the creation of the independent data protection authority, the former Data Protection Commission. On 25.5.2018 we implemented the General Data Protection Regulation. Yes, the topic now sounds bulky, but in reality we are all confronted with data protection every day. If we have problems, if we do not know whether our data has been stored, if they are currently sold, what confidentiality we have, what possibilities that data will be deleted, then a central body that works independently and where complaints can be treated accordingly. This budget is important for this. With this budget there are now 44 planning posts, which means more to the data protection authority seven planning posts. This is a great success. To take a concrete example: Perhaps everyone can remember the following – how do we describe it? –: Post AG took our data – that was the address, profession and other data – and they were resold for marketing purposes. This was, of course, not legitimate and 18 million euros had to be paid for it. We all had the opportunity to know whether our data was processed or not. Data protection is important in the sense of legal protection. It is a great achievement for all of us that the data protection authority is so equipped, because better Data protection is better legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e29980	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30001	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Without diminishing your success and performance, Mrs Minister, I would like to thank Dr. Clemens Jabloner for this perceptive report, because he has provided the basis for the fact that we have been able to see that there have been budget excesses of up to 92.8 million euros over the past two years, in particular in the 2021 budget. As already discussed, this total of EUR 65.8 million, which is now estimated in addition to the budget, means more than a few posts. It's a great success. It is also a success to say that something can really be done in the areas. But what I warn about is that sustainability is not secured, because in the years until 2024 smaller rolls will be baked. That is why I also believe that the budget is under the motto: Small steps, great hope! – as the SOS Children’s Village has – needs to be seen. I feel very positive from the point of view of the data protection speaker, as you have also noted that data protection has been strongly highlighted. You have increased by 15 percent, which you have promised me, as far as I am concerned. - Requested, delivered, I have to praise you. At the same time, you have also created legislative bodies, planning bodies in the field of justice, you have added up the number of administrative practitioners and teaching institutions. A criticism or challenge that arises is only: You should also look at the fact that this data protection authority and the data protection component in the Ministry of Justice are not seen as a foreign body, but are integrated so that there is no interlocutory but one another. A point of appeal: The 2.3 million euros increase in 2021 is a good measure. I think this will be important to ensure that the reintegration of criminal perpetrators is made possible. This is efficient and professional. I warn, however, that further steps must be taken in the area of action – you have described it. I claim that the current state is disastrous, I also claim that there is a risk of delay in speaking in the legal language. I would also believe that the reform is urgently needed. At the same time, a reform of the deradicisation is necessary. I would ask you to support these two projects. Feel mine and our back cover You continue, as do data protection – and I believe we can pack it together. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30039	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30060	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, Before I come to justice to make a few general remarks about the budget: The time is already advanced, but since we have heard emotional things here today, namely that this budget would be too slump or a farce, I would like to say the following: It is not only that this household is being set up in the federal government, but it is also in the rural days, in the communities the time when the households are created and decided upon. As correct and as wrong as this federal budget is, all the other budgets available to the local authorities for decision-making at this time are also. As Mr Kollross, whom I do not see now, believes that the budget would be reduced here, I would recommend that if he still wants to decide on his budget with a decent and extraordinary budget, he should put it back and think a little about it, because since the previous year the municipalities have submitted a financing and a result account. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is to say, the Federal Government has done the best possible in this difficult situation of the Corona pandemic. The Federal Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Federal Minister, has also done the best for justice, which was possible in this situation. What do I mean by that? . We have a budget increase which we have already discussed here and which my previous speakers have mentioned. Overall, justice is available for 2021 EUR 1.8 billion, which is around 66 million euros more than in the previous year and corresponds to an increase of 3.8 percent. In comparison, it is also necessary to take into account that an increase of 4.4 percent has already taken place for 2020. There is an increase by 28 planning points. All of this is something that supports jurisdiction. I would also like to say this at this point: This jurisdiction is in general and in the field of the entire work to be done, excellent work, both the ordinary courts and the prosecutors and the execution of the sentence. This budget ensures that justice is sufficiently taught in the future, so that it will not only die silently or otherwise, but will also be very vital in the future, especially next year. – Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30105	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30127	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The 2021 budget: Zero more law enforcement officers. I congratulate Mrs. Federal Minister! It's a disappointment, you can see what the meanings of black and green are worth. The Justice Department is important to you, and the Justice Department is being supported – this is not even worth the paper. There is no more planning site in 2021. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This, I believe, would be an important motion for a resolution, even for you, Mrs Federal Minister, because that would still save what is to be saved. If you say planning sites cost money – yes, that's right, we know that too – then we can give you a good tip where you can take the money from. There are already a number of press releases in this area: “Insurances for prisoners: [[Keeping papers in height]] “Plan of ÖVP-FPÖ, but also of SPÖ-ÖVP”; furthermore, we do not write, but the ORF, which was already on 17.1.2020: ‘Two green resorts responsible’. Now I wonder where the problem lies, that you and colleagues, Mr. Anschober, will finally start negotiations in this green matter, that the private patient, the prisoner, will finally fall away and that the inmates will be transferred to the Austrian health insurance fund. To solve this problem has never been so easy. Of course, the Minister of Health will not come to you, but that would be your task to approach the Minister of Health. Now it's in one hand, but it doesn't work either. We failed in those days at ÖVP Minister Moser. We wanted it very well, your predecessor Moser wasn't interested in it. That's why nothing happened and nothing happened. That would be quite, absolutely imperative. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This issue would also be important and has long been overdue, as one reads only “twist about high medical costs for prisoners”,“ prisoners: Costs for treatment on record high”, “medicine behind lattices increasingly expensive”. – Mrs Federal Minister, do something in this direction! Then I would have a central concern, because as a Member of Parliament you voted in favour: I am bringing you another motion for a resolution on ‘Ensuring access to the heavy-worker regime for law enforcement officials’ of 3rd reading. July 2019 in memory – you laugh, the judicial guards don’t think it’s so funny. Four parties and you, as a member of the JETZT list, voted in favour. There's only inside. ‘The Federal Government is asked to create the relevant legal framework as soon as possible.’ Mrs. Federal Minister, keep the time span of the 3rd. July 2019 until today in 2020 from your point of view for “fastest possible”? I'm asking you on behalf of the Justice Department. Zero more plotting is dramatic. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[22:29]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30350	The motions for resolutions are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Member Kugler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30374	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Two points – a lot of things have been said, but I can still stress two things –: Mrs Minister, you spoke very clearly in your speech about the reform of the implementation of measures, and I am very grateful to you for that. I think this is very, very important. You also mentioned that the psychiatric expert opinion should be better financed, but also better prepared. I have read a report from the public prosecutor's office in 2019 – so it's not that old – in which the problems are really well named. I'm just reading one sentence of it: The experts take “not enough time,” say the interested parties, “in a position once adopted” is “unreflected” and “news in the course of execution” are “not sufficiently appreciated”, “uncritically linked to preliminary reports” and “textual building blocks and phrasenous formulations from expert opinions” are taken over. – As you said correctly, life and fate depend on it, and that is why it is very important that we take it very seriously. Now there is a higher budget. Perhaps you can now also work on forecasting criteria – in Germany we have that. Perhaps you can also stimulate a forensic chair, which would also help in terms of quality. The funds available for this will certainly be able to make a substantial contribution. A second topic: We also have more money for parole aid and more money for deradization. It was discussed several times how important the role of prisons in deradization is and how dangerous the prisons are but also in radicalization. Both are issues that we must look at especially in the field of justice. There is also criticism of the work of parole aid associations and deradicisation associations: that there are sometimes beautified that one is doing very mildly. I think it is very important that clear guidelines and regulations are known and that everyone sticks to them. I am pleased that the anti-terrorism package also provides for very clear measures. Mr Schrangl, who has expressed a great deal of concern in this regard today, may be able to look into it, and he will see that what he wants is also very good and very intense in the anti-terrorism package. Perhaps one last thought, when we're talking about deradization: I have today been very shocked by a speech by a speaker from the SPÖ series. Two hours ago, when we discussed the UG 10, I was in connection with the terrorist attack of 2nd. It was said in November: We will defend our freedom and our democracy. As a result, Mr Yılmaz came out and said: Ms Kugler wants to educate people who are immigrating to Austria. That's not how it is. – If this is the access of the SPÖ and that is now the access of red pink in Vienna, then I am very, very worried about Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30429	Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30450	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! The right to a good interpretation of procedures is enshrined in the ECHR. There are currently about 4,000 interpreters who interpret and serve in courts, police, various authorities, expert procedures et cetera, and only a part of it is truly sworn and certified. The Fees Act regulates the Honors. For the first half hour, the interpreters can calculate 24,50 euros and for every half hour 12,40 euros, and I think that is certainly with a reason that there are too few court interpreters: that this rate of fees has not been increased since 2007, there is no index adjustment, and there is also a set of 20 euros for other packages, for example when re-translations are made to the police, where, before the protocol is signed, once again, there is a set of 20 euros, regardless of whether this protocol is two pages or 20 pages long. And a procedure according to the call: Well put it together!, then is no longer EMRK-compliant. Another problem is that, at the time of Covid, very many meetings, very many negotiations have been scheduled for the short term, and interpreters who have kept themselves free will then, at once, no longer have a mission, but no one else can accept, which will not be paid for. Another problem is that the interpreters themselves have to place their fees within 14 days, because otherwise they fail, but sometimes the payment of the fee can take time until the act is closed, speak until the process is finished – so it may be that they have to wait for years for their money. I think that if we really want to fulfil the EMRK, if we really want to do high-quality court proceedings, then the high-quality interpretation is also a part of which we have to accept, for which we also have to pay decent salaries or decent fees – I don't want to hire someone at all. I think it must be worth it to us. I hope, in this budget, that is not the case now, but it would be very time-consuming, that perhaps more money will be provided for this in a forthcoming budget. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30489	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30511	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers, who at so later hours still have the endurance to watch us! We lawyers are often told that we have a certain degree of infatuation and also a language of our own. We lawyers are also the interface between law, law and people outside. Some of you, ladies and gentlemen, know that I am currently doing my judicial practice at the Freistadt District Court – for the budget week I have taken a vacation – so I am concerned with the work of the district judges and the law enforcement staff every day. I can guarantee you that the employees of the judiciary really ensure that there is a low level of access to justice for citizens, especially in times of crisis, because Covid-19 has also brought challenges to justice and jurisdiction. I'll give you a few words: Home office versus IT equipment, video negotiations or negotiations via WhatsApp video telephony or also the control of the secretions – that was an inconceivable amount that came to the employees. These things have really changed everyday work in practice. It is our answer to the budget to ensure that you get out of the crisis and through the crisis well in this area, and I am convinced that one or the other has experienced through home office experience that digitization, this sluggish, heavy stone, is something important and that this bare stone may come into play faster than thought. It is great that online justice will be a focus in the future, that digital act will be upgraded and that will be found in the budget precipitation. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on the issue of adult protection, because it has now grown to my heart in practice. I am pleased that this area will also receive more financial resources, because through the reform of the adult protection law, man and his Self-determination has been focused. I believe that this is a matter of justice: that we bring the institution closer to the citizens, that we take care of people, including in justice and jurisdiction. We do this with more money for victim aid, victim protection, parole aid and adult protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30550	Mr Fürlinger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30571	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I can still remember how we have been sent on the journey before the coalition negotiations and have received clear indications where there is a lack of justice and what is necessary – and that is not legal staff, and it is a proper teaching for digital things. These were our essential issues. At that time, we have been clearly communicated – that is not so long ago – that there is not a lack of prosecutors and not judges, but especially in the non-legal and digital sphere – we were able to see that as a practitioner, I was able to see it there or there – and we really did it excellently, you have to say that. We have already fulfilled the task with the 2020 budget – in addition to the 2021 budget –. Mission completed, one can simply say so, so that today, as I believe, there can be no reason to complain. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] I also do not believe that there is still a need for large-scale new staff resources through various legislative packages, whose basic assets were in fact present in both civil law and criminal law. But I would also like to thank Mr Bürstmayr, and I would like to add the same horn to the stand of lawyers for whom I stand out. I am entitled to say that not only is the lawyer fully aware of the professional seriousness of the proceedings free of charge, he also makes some progress in the adult representation, where the cost coverage is often not given, no, she has also carried out many state tasks in recent months and years. Many things have been outsourced, especially in the digital field, and the lawyer has liked to make these investments, but this should also be honoured. Ladies and gentlemen, the state of law, of course, also regulates the rates and what lawyers can and can earn – they do so in many areas, with low values of dispute, which are our daily bread, not to an excessive extent – but, and that is the only thing I believe, to be able to say to lawyers: We will eventually valorize like all other things, and at some point we will need to index and adjust. That is what we would still be lacking in the legal budget above: if we manage to adapt the Law Law on Law Laws to the losses of value in recent years. That is why I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, and all of us. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30623	Mr Scharzenberger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30644	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we have to fight another virus besides Corona. Unlike the corona virus attacking the body, this virus attacks the thoughts of people and infects them with human contempt and hatred, with an attitude against democracy, against freedom and against a peaceful and tolerant co-operation. At the beginning of the month, this virus of radical political Islam also demanded the first human life in Austria – and it was not the question of whether this would happen, but when. radical political Islam concerns not only Vienna, but also Styria, namely Graz and also my home district, the district of Liezen. We also need to take measures in judicial enforcement agencies so that prisoners do not become extremists. We are also required to do so with regard to the objective of reintegration and the prevention of relapse. I am glad that we have such a well-organized police in Austria, so that it could stop the suspect within a few minutes. Sadly, for four people, even these few minutes were too many. We will not allow the young generation to grow up with Islamist-motivated terrorist attacks on innocent people or that it is normal for young people to be murdered in Europe every year by people of extremist ideology. However, we must also emphasize very clearly and clearly that this is not a fight against Islam or against Muslims. It is therefore important to distinguish political from radical Islam. Tolerance does not mean to be tolerant of the intolerance of others. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bürstmayr.]] Austria has reacted as quickly and determinedly as no other country, and that this is possible lies with our Federal Government, but above all with our Minister of the Interior, who manages to also eliminate the chaos that was left to him by his predecessor in some areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Only that a former Interior Minister reveals internal details of an ongoing operation, thus massively endangering the security and life of police officers, that is not to be surpassed by incompetence! [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] In the long term, we can only solve this problem if we stand together as a Europe and if we stand firm for each other and for our values. We therefore need legal bases to punish the perpetrators, the hazards and, above all, those who spread these ideologies properly and effectively protect people from them. The new package of measures – the implementation of measures, electronic residence monitoring and the recognition of Austrian citizenship – has already achieved an important step. We must not allow this virus to divide our free and tolerant society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30717	Mrs Reiter is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30744	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! There's a plus in the judicial budget. With the increase of EUR 65 million, not only the current operation can be covered, but also some additional priorities can be set, and the staff increase can continue next year. An effective objective is to ensure legal certainty and legal peace by making proposals to adapt and further develop our legal system in terms of social and economic needs. A measure to this end is the initiative against hatred on the network. The law package against hatred on the net will create opportunities for those affected to defend themselves. The Internet is not a legal space and it must not be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially the social media have changed our communication considerably. Soon at home in front of the computer, something has knocked into the keyboard, and the brake threshold and level are moving towards the second and third basement. It is insulted, exposed, harassed and threatened. Hatred in the net is real violence and unfortunately most of the violence against women. One third of women have already experienced this and the proportion of young people is even greater. I would like to mention the main points of the package: Online platforms are required to set up a simple reporting system, illegal content such as murder threats must be immediately deleted, and platforms must be accessible, a subcontractor with delivery address must be made known. The law package will provide opportunities for those affected to be able to defend themselves quickly and effectively. Violence, hatred and insults cannot be turned away from now on at the same time, but we can take measures to counter this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30787	There is no further word for this. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. I can thank Mrs. Zadić for her coming and wish her all the best for the next few weeks. If it were in normal employment, it would have been in Karenz for a long time, the more remarkable it is that it is still talking and answering at this time. – Thank you very much. [[I should like to congratulate Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[22:49:03]] UG 11: Internals UG 18: Tourism
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30832	Finally, we arrive at the 11th internal breakdowns and 18, tourism. The debate is under one. I still greet the Minister of the Interior quite warmly – I have not seen you before. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Einwallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30871	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Yeah, late in the evening, we're still getting into a budget debate about internal security. I have to say that our speaking time is already a little short, so you, Mr. Interior Minister, are now getting everything very compact from me. The internal budget is a matter in which there are figures and numerical material that allow us to talk about investment, that we talk about more staff. A number of projects are planned. There is a lot to be discussed about the interior area, but this evening we only have to focus on the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! The figures are one; Unfortunately, budget debates have always been quite similar for many, many years. Every year – for 20 years – an ÖVP Minister of the Interior has arrived and announces that there will be more police officers in this country. Every year, an ÖVP Minister of the Interior comes back and announces that there will be an improvement in infrastructure in this area. And every year, an ÖVP interior minister comes back and promises the police better equipment on the spot. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem is that unfortunately, too often it only remains with these announcements. And announcements alone are too little, Minister of the Interior, much more is needed. We have seen that there is a need for reforms, real reforms. ==References====External links== November; everything that happened in the run-up to this attack clearly shows the failure of 20 years of ÖVP's internal ministry policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Reforms are needed in several areas. It needs it in the BAT, but also in other areas. We have seen at present that it was also just an announcement that, in the private security sector, there is at last a need for uniform training and basic criteria. The law on this is announced, but it is not implemented. Now we see how necessary it is. Notices alone do not make our country safer. The people in Austria have deserved safety, Minister of the Interior, and you are still guilty of it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30914	Mr Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30935	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! This year 2020 will always keep us in mind – as much as you can say – a truly historic year, a year that has put everything on the head. But it is also a year that has clearly confirmed, security is the most valuable asset of people, security is the first priority of the federal government. And it needs continuity in terms of security. This budget confirms and secures security continuity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With about 3.2 billion euros, we are now creating the highest security budget in the Second Republic in 2021. Many thanks to our Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel and his negotiating partner, Mr Karl Nehammer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are creating good conditions for a modern police, ladies and gentlemen. We can continue the initial staff offensive with 4 300 additional posts and training places. Member of the European Parliament, who is rolling the wave of reception, is actually there. At present, 3,600 aspirants are already in the educational centers and are thus prepared for use on Austrian roads. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, we can also support the police in the most important cybersecurity and digitalisation projects. We can assist the police in redesigning, in further developing investigation and investigation work in the various areas, but we can also support them in the protection of violence and victims. We can also focus on the work of the perpetrator – especially important – with the legal innovation starting from 1.1.2021. Ladies and gentlemen! More than current is: With this budget, we will finance comprehensive measures against all forms of terrorism and extremism, and, most importantly, we will continue consistently the offensive, the equipment offensive, the equipment offensive of the executive. I believe it is also important that the budget for asylum and migration in the separate budget area of UG 18 should be allocated specifically, with EUR 315 million in 2021 in addition to the security budget. That's what's going on. Figures, data, facts, ladies and gentlemen, are always at the heart of a budget debate, behind the figures, data and facts, but people are. There are 37 000 police officers and security officers, whom I would like to thank together with you at this point for spending their lives around the clock for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, together: We always say in the political debates that security can only be designed together, security concerns all of us. Do you know what I'm surprised about now? I looked at the red-pink government programme for Vienna today. [[Call the SPÖ: Go, please!]] You know what's in there? - No, I'd better tell you what's not inside. It is no longer a word of security in the streets of Vienna, to what the city of Vienna can contribute to it. It's not a sentence about the local security police inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] There is no sentence inside how police inspections can be better equipped so that the tenant police can be accommodated at the landlord city of Vienna accordingly. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: Either I have not read the government programme well, or red and pink still have to work hard together to achieve what this Federal Government ensures: Security is the first priority for this federal government. Thank you, Minister of the Interior Karl Nehammer! I'm glad the Minister of the Interior is called Karl Nehammer in these times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e30999	Member of the Amesbauer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31020	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! To the previous speaker, Mahrer: I am not known to be a glowing admirer of red Vienna, but to shift the blame for the failure in security policy to Vienna now, which is yes. really just absurd, ladies and gentlemen, but be it. [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] To the budget: It should be acknowledged that the internal security budget is an ambitious budget, and it should also be acknowledged that the staff offensive, the Herbert Kicklim area of executives, has also been continued. I hope that this will also be done over the year 2022 – we will observe this closely – as many retirements are pending. But as a whole: The budget is in fact a fantasy budget with fantasy numbers, because of the second lockdown and the entire corona situation, which are not included in the budget, all of us here know that it will not hold that way. - That's one. The other thing is, of course, we're gonna need a lot of money. Above all, we will need a lot of money, resources and resources to combat political Islam in a sustainable way and to remove its breeding ground in Austria. Mr Internal Minister, you are now the last one in a series of black interior ministers who have ruined and ruined our constitutional protection in Austria for many years, almost two decades. It was the ministers of the ÖVP who brought the BAT to the brink of inability to act, as we have now seen it on the basis of this case, this disgraceful attack on the day of the Allerseellen, and we undoubtedly know – indisputably! – that the attack, if there had not been this failure for which you were responsible, should have been prevented on the basis of the applicable laws, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I expect that the BAT reform will be consistently driven forward and that attention will also be paid to the fight against political Islam and political and Islamist extremism. I've been asked for answers from your place of business these days. In recent years, there have been 143 criminal charges for terrorist financing in Austria. I also asked what it looks like with all the radical mosques and mosque associations and Islamic associations, and in response I got that Mr. Nehammer and the interior resort do not know at all how many such Islamic associations exist in Austria. So the BMI is on the way in the blind, and this is the real security threat to this country, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if we are already under political responsibility, I will repeat and confirm the call for withdrawal, because a Minister of the Interior, who bears the political responsibility for this failure, must withdraw! But it's always the other fault; first, the justice debt, then the kickl is guilty, then even the mobile phone provider is guilty. So that's just more absurd. If Mr. Nehammer were as consistent as he was in pushing off his responsibility, then Austria would be a lot safer. Step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31090	Mr Bürstmayr is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31111	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who believe they can make safety without police are on the way. A state without police is a failed state. But who believes in making security with police alone It's just as wrong to be able to. If we try to do this, we will throw our democracy overboard in part. Security needs more than police; it needs it, but it also needs a lot more, even if this is often undermined in the FPÖ. Let us take a look at the numbering work against this background. 3 172 million euros for internal security: At first glance, this sounds like a lot of money, but it's just 3.3 percent of the federal budget. That clearly shows: If Austria is not one, then a police state. There has been a significant increase in disbursement by around 7.3 percent, and at the same time three-quarters of the funds are in the personnel sector. In other words, we can assume that these police are not necessarily over-fitted, because there is, besides the staff you have to pay, also its equipment, its fleet, its workplaces, and, and, and. Is it too much? – I’ve been thinking about two things in the last few days that I’ve been thinking about around the 2. ==References====External links== One is that the members of the special forces who have been called to this terrorist attack are explicitly trained in it and have the requirement that they draw the attention of such amok runners, such perpetrators and, in the worst case, the fire that these people have opened so that civilians are no longer at risk. There are already a lot of things to do, and that is what it looks like, at least in concrete use, relatively quickly. What has led to the need for this commitment has been discussed more often, and we will look at it intensively. But the second thing that almost impressed me more than that is the fact that on the 2nd. November after 20 o'clock several hundred police officers – we do not know exactly – have put into service in Vienna. What does that mean? - They would have been free. They put on the uniform, they may have hopped into the car or into the subway and went to their service shed and said: Here I am. They didn't know where to use them. It was clear that they are not immediately sent to a fire fighting, but that evening we all did not know what was going on in Vienna. This evening, as a police officer, you didn't know if you didn't risk life in the worst case if you were in 6th. District of Streife – and yet several hundred officials have been employed. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That is why I would like to conclude with the sentence: We can argue about whether it is too much or too little budget, but that three quarters of the payouts go to the staff, which has a good reason. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31159	Mrs Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31181	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the budget for the BAT. We have already received the annual high-gloss brochure published by the Ministry of the Interior in a nice corporate design and will discuss it again in 14 days in the Committee on the Interior of this House. The brochure then reads again what you already know about medium-term media consumption, even less exciting, less concrete, more superficial. I am speaking of nothing other than the Constitutional Protection Report of the Republic of Austria, which was about 20 loosely printed, from the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, then in the Media Department the BMI's smooth-polished net site, which from the legal mandate should actually deal with the most existential threats to our democracy and liberal fundamental order – should! Already a look over the border with our German neighbours shows how a constitutional report, which is more than a mere superficial compilation of security-political general places, looks and can afford. On the nearly 400 pages of the German Constitutional Protection Report there are clear situations and analyses of everything that the Federal Republic threatens from within. There, concrete groups, including structure, ideology and threat assessment are described. Chapter only Islamist extremism is 70 pages long in the German Constitutional Protection Report, as extensive as the entire Austrian report. 50 pages stand alone with various Turkish and Kurdish groups, 50 pages deal with cybersecurity and espionage defense, 70 pages left extremism, 70 pages right-wing extremism, and so on, and so on. All of this testifies to a high level of analytical ability and the will to deal with these phenomena actively and, yes, in the public. As a member of the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on the Interior, I ask myself: Why is there such a difference here? Is that not a topic for us? Are we an island of the Blessed? – After the unrest in favorites in late summer and the attack 14 days ago, it is probably clear that this is not the case. I do not hope, however, that because the BAT is so low, we are an island of the Blessed for jihadists who seem to have met with us very much, and especially for one of whom has now become known that he loved to move from Austria from the threads. Why don't we have a serious report? Is it because one may not wish for an objective debate on these issues, because it is better to introduce populist anti-terrorism packages together with the Greens? Or is it because one may not be able in this country to produce as comprehensive analyses and situations as our German neighbours do? – Probably it is a mixture of both: conscious ignorance on the one hand and inability, negligent inability on the other. Both call for a thorough system cure, Minister of the Interior, and you know that too! This means for us from the perspective and perception also from the investigation committee on the BAT: ÖVP out of the BAT, more competences and more resources purely into the BAT; away from the party-political playground to a strong, efficient Federal Office that is there for the security of Austria! This, of course, will cost something, and we have to let it cost us a little bit. We have often discussed this enough: The budget can also be debated publicly, including in the Committee on the Interior, and much more precisely in the Committee on Secret Service. We NEOS will support such an undertaking, but there is also a need for strong control, and therefore we will not be able to do so without stronger supervisory and control rights for Parliament. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31226	Federal Minister Nehammer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! At an advanced hour – me As a former Member of Parliament, I know how demanding the time of the budget days is – thank you for your attention on the important issue of security. Yes, the police, police officers in this country were massively demanded from the beginning in 2020, in the most diverse special functions and units. Once it began, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was handed over to a cyber-attack with spy software. It was necessary to quickly limit, identify and combat this attack in the cooperation of all forces – including the international level, the European level. This was achieved by the employees of the constitutional protection at the time together with all other experts in Germany and abroad. Then it did not last long, and the migration crisis and increased migration pressure at our external borders came. And then, after just a short time, what the Austrians and the people who live in Austria have been massively moving and straining: the effects of the corona virus. The police also play an important role as a partner of the population to accompany them at the same time in implementing the measures and regulations of the Ministry of Health, but also to be there if it is necessary to intervene after the dialogue, after de-escalation. Not quite two weeks ago, the dramatic terrorist attack in Vienna was with all its disastrous consequences, with the committed and hearty intervention of the police officers, the special forces. And only by this intervention – we have already heard from the previous speakers – has it succeeded quickly to turn off the perpetrator and prevent worse. We are not afraid to consider where mistakes have happened and where possibilities of improvement have been given so that we can become more efficient, better, safer when it comes to counter-terrorism. That is why the Commission of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior is here to clarify. Moreover, while clarity is created where mistakes have happened, so that they no longer repeat, it needs the determined fight against terrorism, it needs the determined fight against extremism, no matter which side it represents. This was also achieved by the police, the employees of the State Constitutional Offices, the Federal Constitutional Protection Office, the police units. There was a massive blow against the Muslim Brotherhood and against Hamas, who would have been almost threatened. Hamas brings blood and terror, and the Muslim Brotherhood finances it. Despite all this, despite betrayal, it has been possible to carry out this action with the full commitment and commitment of police officers, the State Constitutional Offices, the Federal Constitutional Protection. 25 million euros and more in assets were secured, hundreds of accounts frozen, masses of cash that traditionally serves to finance terror was found in mosques near Imamen. This is a matter of laying down the craftsmanship, and the investigations are carried out with emphasis. And while that happened, at the same time, the blow against right-wing extremism, against hatred in the web was led. All of this is one of the tasks of the police, the employees of the State Constitutional Offices, the Federal Constitutional Protection and dedicated prosecutors, such as Graz and Vienna, so that the fight against terrorism, the fight against extremism, the fight against political Islam can actually be waged. – All those for that a great thank you from my side! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Today, however, the discussion is also about the foundation for all this doing, and the foundation is the budget, the possibility of using financial means to enable police officers to actually do their dangerous service, their complex, intensive service. And this has been achieved with 7.3 percent more budget, 215 million more – for the staff offensive, which was launched in 2017 with a more of 4 100 planning posts, then the turquoise-green coalition has been extended to 4 300 and is on the right track. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important message for you, who are fighting in constituencies and associated with the mayors on the ground. This staff offensive, this success means that there are indeed more police officers in Austria in 2020. On the one hand, we have the challenge of having to replace many exits with retirement, and the inclusion of police officers and the provision of planning posts will actually secure more police officers in police inspections, among the local citizens. This is an important measure, and the budget ensures that we can move it forward. To give you a sense of the numbers in which dimension this represents: There are currently 3,600 police officers in training at the police's schools. We are going to take in another 900 students this December, and 1,600 police officers have been evicted in 2020. In other words, the way will continue here consistently – for greater security, more police presence and, above all, what is so important to mayors in cities, more police officers on the ground. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This reflects the statements of colleague Bürstmayr, who referred to the fact that a large part of the budget of the Federal Ministry of the Interior refers to effort for police officers. This is our highest, our greatest asset, our strongest capital when it comes to the fight against organised crime and terrorism. In addition, it also needs equipment for the service itself. The budget ensures that we will be able to acquire another 4,000 ballistics of protection. This also means that for all students in the future, if they are sent into the police inspections in the active service, they no longer only need the district commanding responsibility, whether there are sufficient protective vests. No, there will now be sufficient protective vests for the students, especially for those who already need to be replaced. In total, well over 22,000 ballistic seat and protective vests were delivered – next to the storm rifles, next to the helmets and next to the stronger fire class for the protective vest, which is carried in the service vehicle. However, there is also the great security and regulatory service, which serves to ensure that the right of assembly in Austria can be exercised freely and approximately. It also serves to ensure that, when a congregation takes place and there comes an escalation, it can be done in time. This requires a modern and adequate equipment for the police officers in operation there. This is a impact protection equipment that is renewed in the number of 5 500 – an investment of over 6 million euros, so that even the service, which is difficult enough, can be used at least in such a way that there is no additional burden on the forces. The terrorist attack has also shown one thing: Weapons, technology and ammunition are an essential element for the rapid fight against amoks or terrorists without presenting an additional threat to the unparticipants. This is the biggest challenge in such a commitment. For this reason, the use ammunition of the police forces is completely renewed; 1.5 million pieces of ammunition, which has a completely new effect compared to now, are acquired because it has a lot of effect on the perpetrator who needs to be switched off. This means a faster shutdown of the culprit, but by being a deformatory story, this also means less danger to the surrounding. It has already been referred to today in terms of constitutional protection – a very essential point – the protective wall of the Republic, which is now in the phase of the new direction, in the construction of the structure, and it also needs more resources. There will also be enough resources in the budget for this, because if we say that we separate the state police part from the intelligence department, rebuild the intelligence complex in the protection of the Constitution, then it will need financial resources exactly for this area; and they are guaranteed. The intelligence section always concerns the investigation of the dangers, the state police's defence of danger. In the old form of constitutional protection, both were always in a civil servant, an official, and that means that one or the other has always been too short. The reform of the Constitutional Protection will make it different, more efficient and better. Because Member Krisper has spoken about this: She would have to know because she was always involved in the information about the transformation of the whole process. It was also the subject of – ladies and gentlemen, you know – that the question of the reports you referred to so critically at the speaker's desk just before, is particularly taken into account so that there can and will be more and higher-quality reports, especially for the decision-makers here in the House, for Members who, in turn, can give us new opportunities to fight terrorism and threats of extremism of any kind – religious, politically motivated – because of better information on the question of legislative matters. It is important to fight together, and I therefore ask for this budget to be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31351	Mrs Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31372	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! After your speech, I can only say more: Thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Minister of State, for your commitment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Federal Minister, for ensuring security in Austria. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] Thank you, my dear Austrians, for being the police officers on the 2nd. In November, this terrorist attack ended in 9 minutes, thus supporting and appreciating. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] We thank the police who really did incredible things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Many of us in Austria are on this 2. In November, it became aware that we are not on an island of the Blessed, but that it needs a large group of people who are always working on safety, always working for it and guarantee. This Ministry of the Interior with Minister of the Interior Karl Nehammer is responsible for this, and for that we say once again a very, very great thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is why, Mrs Krisper, it is not about what is in a brochure, even if I would like to discuss it with you and we can count pages which is more important. Rather, it is about correcting the mistakes we have recognized in such a commitment and setting things up again. The fact that the BAT, if there was an interior minister before that, who even made a house search in the BAT and thus turned it into a bad light throughout the world, has to be re-set up today is clear to everyone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] We have to end and change what Minister of the Interior Kickl has done today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore: Yes, it is true that we are giving more money to the Ministry of the Interior – more than 200 million euros – and making a reform because we are not on an island of the Blessed. Other countries invest a lot, a lot of money – billions – in an ordinary intelligence service and in an ordinary state police force. This is the task we have done, so we take care of it. Ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure: Security is our top goal. Thank you very much for this corps spirit, which is present in this police, in which police from free parts, even if they do not have service, decide to appear at the service. You've proved that. Thank you very much also to my colleague from the Greens, who mentioned this so praiseably earlier. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31481	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31530	Mr President. Federal Minister! I wouldn't have thought that there would be even more embarrassing speeches today. Mr. Gerstl, why didn't you get your ass right now? Then at least the next day we would have had beautiful pictures. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ as well as with the NEOS.]] Mr Federal Minister, I am taking you to the floor because of the police who are now in training, are soon to be assigned to the service and so on and so on. The question is: How many will go into retirement, and who will get these assigned police officers? Vienna has been waiting for 1,500 policemen for years! We have recently learned that with the same population, favorites have half as many policemen as Linz. I'm curious if Vienna will benefit from it when the police are finally on duty – that's one thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The other is – ladies and gentlemen, you have noticed –: Until the election there was Viennabashing – Vienna goes down the stream, everything, total – then the Vienna election was, then was peace. Then the Wiener ÖVP believed or expected it to apply Mr. Blümel. Now it's been safe for two or three days. He's staying there. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] Now Mrs Kugler, Mr Mahrer and Mr Taschner are worried about Vienna – the tears come to me. [[Cheerfulness of Mr Loacker and Mr Krisper.]] Blümel stays with you as Minister of Finance, and you have to deal with him yourself. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] We have very capable people in Vienna who have worked out a coalition. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You'll see how all this will be. So, my time's almost over. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] [[Abg. Zarits: Will you step back?]] - Who should step back? You don't step back when the time is over – I mean, is it still going on? There's no such thing as that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Hanger: That would be the best!]] I am also concerned, Mr Federal Minister, that rumors about pushbacks are getting louder and louder. You will have heard the media reports: At first it was just a suspicion that there was Pushbacks at the Slovenian-Austrian border, although the people sought asylum. I know there's been a lot of reports – it's suspicious. The EU Commission will accept this. I very much hope that our police officers on the border are not involved because the border police are also there to comply with EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31639	Mr Amesbauer referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31664	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gerstl has earned a co-operation increase by the Minister of the Interior due to his overwhelming praises. He has also made allegations against the facts by saying that Herbert Kicklhabe made a house search at the BAT. I'm actually correcting: Due to the division of power, an Interior Minister cannot do or order a house search, but only the prosecutor's office, and so it happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31707	Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31729	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann Kickl has failed when you, honourable Member Amesbauer, said that he is not here with this chapter, otherwise he should have listened to what he left behind – especially in the BAT. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's a failure when you're silent on the subject. What we need – the Federal Minister has already mentioned – is a functioning constitutional protection, we have seen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Who destroyed the BVT?]] - That's right! Federal Minister Kickl left it the way it found Minister of the Interior Nehammer: in a state that is not satisfactory. We know that, and that is why the reforms are now under way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Lausch.]] Col. Nurten Yılmaz, in our culture it is nothing inappropriate to say thank you. The Minister of the Interior has deserved a thank you – I tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Yılmaz:... Culture?]] Your colleague Yılmaz, thanking you is nothing bad. [[Abg. Yılmaz: How often? How often...?]] - It's enough, good. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, exactly!]] [[Call the FPÖ: You're here!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Nor would it be bad for you to appreciate this work objectively and not always to see the failure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's all I want to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this terrible terrorist attack on 2nd. November has shown two things: On the one hand, that, of course, with all that we do here, Austria cannot give absolute protection to our fellow citizens. The second is that terrorism is a Europe-wide, global problem. If we want to achieve sustainable results, of course we also have to proceed internationally. It was not only the Minister of the Interior, but also the Federal Chancellor, who took an important step. – And so that you don't blame me again for saying too much thank you: The “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” – because media promotion has already been addressed today, it does not receive any media promotion from Austria – took place on Monday, i.e. yesterday, on 16. November, rightly stated that in this anti-terrorist strategy that Europe is seeking, two politicians are moving forward in Europe, namely Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and the President of France Emmanuel Macron. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] In addition to what we are doing here in the country, it is important that we take action against terrorism worldwide, because this Islamist terror is the bloodiest and most violent one we currently have, and it is connected worldwide. This terrorist, who became active with us, also had contacts with Northern Macedonia, had a visit from Switzerland and Germany, and he was in Slovakia. We can't be naïve! The first thing we need to do is to fight against the underlying ideology. Therefore, it was 100 percent right to go against the feeding ground, these cellar mosques. The second thing we need to do is to work together across the EU. We still have a lot to do. With just one sentence: It's a hundred percent right what we're holding in the government programme: The fight must be lifted to the international level. The proceedings belong, as with war criminals, to The Hague, ladies and gentlemen! We must work together in Europe. Austria is well equipped to do this and will contribute 215 million euros more in the interior for staff, for modern infrastructure, but also for joint international cooperation in the fight against terrorism and anti-Semitism. That's what we need, and not a small-scale party-political hack.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31879	Mr Ries is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). . I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you only have more than one minute and perhaps should be able to accommodate the motion for a resolution. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e31901	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, we welcome all the measures to make Austria safer, and a budget of more than EUR 3 billion is certainly suitable for this. It is gratifying that you improve the equipment and continue the staff offensive of Herbert Kickl. If it had not been a so-called expert minister for two weeks in office, we would have been much further, because this one apparently had only the task of stopping everything Herbert Kickl had begun. I close my speech something unusual and probably first and last time with a little thank you to the SPÖ Vienna: They removed the Greens and Mrs Hebein from the state government; she wanted to disarm the police in September. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many police officers would have become helpless targets of the terrorists. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Do you believe this?]] In order to improve the financial performance of the executive, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[23:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32010	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Jachs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32035	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of today's meeting just before midnight, the security budget is on the agenda. I would have liked a more prominent time because it would have deserved this security budget. There will be a plus of 215 million euros. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I would now like to write you one in the main book, namely: It's probably everyone's strategy. You are here in your speeches with nebula grenades, just so that you can divert from the real problem, and you are the ones who have already shown all day long what the FPÖ stands for. Mr Klubobmann Kickl, who is not in the hall right now, has shown very strongly that the FPÖ probably stands for a lot, not for level, because the N does not occur in FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Go, please!]] Last night I walked along the side street around 5 pm. It is really a strange feeling to go along 14 days after the terrorist attack on the perpetrators: the lights that shine there, the people who still demonstrate their participation. This is through Mark and leg, and it is sad that it takes such events so that everyone can make the confession again that our police must be equipped with more financial means and more personnel so that it needs such events so that we can see how important our police officers are to security in Austria. We are also concerned with strengthening the subjective sense of security, and I therefore thank the Minister of the Interior for the fact that there will again be more staff at the services in 2020. We will not only need these additional staff in the fight against terrorism and not just on the street on the ground, but also in the fight against Internet crime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] The cyberdefence will be a real challenge in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I appeal to you – I think it is really time: Let us stand together as politicians on the side of our police – with the budget we create the conditions for it – and let us finally stop changing our police officers, dear FPÖ, political little money on the back of our police officers!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32086	Mrs Schatter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32108	Mr President. Minister! Last night the sad news of Aba Lewit's death reached us. Aba Lewit was the last Austrian Jewish survivors of the Mauthausen and Gusen concentration camps. I would particularly like to point out one point at this point and remind you that Aba Lewit has been very successful at the European Court of Human Rights against an inexpressible statement in the extreme “Aula”, namely that camp survivors would be a country plague. Today, however, Aba Lewit's commitment as a Mahner and contemporary witness is also a very clear signal to us that anti-Semitism has not yet been banished in the history books, but is still rooted in our society. Anti-Semitism, and I say that quite clearly, is to be fought in any form in which it appears! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] That is why we also welcome the National Action Plan against Anti-Semitism announced in summer. However, from the anti-Semitism report of the Israeli Cultural Community and the Anti-Semitism Forum, we also know that 83 percent of the associated anti-Semitic incidents have a clear right-wing background. It is therefore clear to us that the NAP against anti-Semitism must come hand in hand, quickly and together with an action plan against right-wing extremism, just as it is provided for in the government programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since 2015, we have experienced an extreme high level of right-wing crimes in Austria, and we have been warning against impoverishing right-wing extremism for years. They also announced in the budget funds for an action plan against right-wing extremism, Minister. When can we expect the presentation and implementation of this urgently needed action plan? – There are measures that are really urgently needed, such as the preparation of an own right-wing extremism report or the establishment of advisory bodies against right-wing extremism. In this respect, we are urgently required to act. But above all, what we need – this has already been mentioned several times today, and that has been the terrorist attack of the 2nd century. Also clearly presented in November –: [[Abg. Hafenecker: If you are Islamism and right-wing extremism..., then perhaps! And that at the time!]] We need a functioning BAT and sufficiently occupied planning sites in the extremism department. In this regard, you are required, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32154	Mr Stögmüller spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32184	I would like to make a very brief correction to the statement made by Mr Ries, who claimed that the Greens of Vienna wanted to disarm the police. [[Abg. Listen: Well, they want...!]] I am actually correcting that the Vienna Greens have called for a differentiation of the police, that the police units are urged, for example, that transport politicians should not necessarily carry out their activities with the weapon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ries.]] This, for example, works great in the UK, and I think that is also useful and worthy of discussion, so there is a real correction here. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Yes, they are now starting again with the armament!]] It wasn't about the whole police. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Police horses also have them there!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32264	Mr Stocker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32296	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Security is an essential basic need for people in our country, and I really regret that we are in so much disagreement on this issue. We are not in agreement with Mrs Yılmaz, who is very much in favour of a single thank you in this area. I say quite frankly to you: That's not enough, and I'd like to say thank you several times: Thanks to the Federal Minister, who has a very difficult task to deal with, thanks to the police and also thanks to all the staff in the Ministry of Interior. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] One thing I must also say to the FPÖ at this late hour: Mr Amesbauer, are you concerned about who is delegating responsibility, and are you actually correcting that Mr Kickl has nothing to do with an illegal razzia in the BAT? [[Abg. Amesbauer: Well, who arranged it?]] Who's taking responsibility here? You have every reason to say that you have every reason to do so because your Minister of the Interior, Kickl, destroyed the BAT with an illegal razzia, which is equivalent to an invasion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ries: Yes, yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: The problem with the ÖVP is that you really believe what you say!]] The problem you have with the ÖVP is that we ensure security that threatens your Minister of the Interior – and you have heard that – by carrying out police actions from you and your Minister of the Interior outside. That's something the FPÖ has to answer, and you might want to think about it. [[Abg. Listen: The problem is that you're talking nonsense!]] Yeah, I know you don't like to hear that, but it's just that it's the truth, too. You don't get over that, I said it last time: You have to wait a little bit, the truth is reasonable. And to this budget I also say thank you to the Minister of Finance for providing the budgetary resources to ensure that the fight against political extremism and terrorism can be ensured. [[Abg. Listen, uh, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! Thanks to Slovakia! Thanks to ……]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: We even held our colleague Gerstl in front of him!]] [[Abg. Lausch: But it is reasonable for you too!]] I do not know what budget you have read, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it cannot be that which is available here because almost 900 additional executives are employed with this budget. In this sense, thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, the security of our people is in good hands, and the budget is also provided accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32430	Mr Keck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32486	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a staff situation in the Ministry of the Interior, which is partly really devastating, and I am not blaming Karl Nehammer for it because he is only a short time in the interior ministry, but the interior area has been in the hands of the ÖVP for a long time, and there have been many mistakes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] When I went to this house today, I met two officials I know; of course I talked to them, and they complained about the additional benefits they have to provide because there are many appointments because there are many trainings because of the fact that there are, of course, officials in Karenz because there are Covid. We discussed the budget debate: 10 percent of executive officials are currently either positively tested, in quarantine or otherwise it's anything; and because of course the pensions are also falling, that's to say, we have an under-retirement. If we recruit 900 additional officials, these missing posts are in fact not covered, Minister of the Interior. That's the situation. One thing I know from my work as a works council: Of course, I can turn on the screw for a long time with people, I can lay it out for a long time, I can demand the most massive achievements, but at some point the whole thing breaks in, and I think we're in a situation where we need to be careful that this doesn't happen. Your bill, which you made with this 4 500, refers to the entire legislative period, that is, per year 900, five times nine are 45, so we're with the 4 500 people, but that's too little. In the executive field, we have to recruit far, far more staff to reduce the massive burden of these officials due to the extra burden – but if I look at the increase in the amount of additional services for 2021 from 291 to 303 million euros, I also know that the burden of these officials will rise at the same time. I think they should be lowered and not increased, and therefore it is urgently necessary to ensure in this department that not 900 but 1 800 officials are admitted. If you know that the school lasts two years, you know: If currently 900 are added, they will only be free in two years, but until then 3 200 will go to pension. So you really have to look to get more into the training courses so that the officials can also be relieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32525	Mrs Minnich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32554	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Dear colleagues! Believers at home! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] You have already heard from my previous speakers and our Minister of the Interior: The internal security is one of the Federal Government's budgetary priorities next year. First of all, this is because it is the highest security budget in the history of the Federal Ministry of the Interior: There is an increase compared to the 2020 financial proposal in the UG 11 by around EUR 215.3 million, which is 7 percent more. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Secondly, with the continuation of the BMI staff offensive next year, 1 054 additional planning posts will be created in the interior, including 897 in the Executive Service and 63 in the Education Centre, the Security Academy. Third, 30 million euros are spent in the development of cyber security, the further development of IT applications and the modernisation of police infrastructure. Fourth, a BAT secret service reform is planned in the fight against extremism and terrorism, the further development of measures against violence, burglary, theft and the continuation of the joint initiative safely in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Together, cooperation with NGOs and communities is safe for a clear commitment to the Witzel politician and a clear sign of greater security for our people. Dear Opposition, you too have a political responsibility whether you want it to be true or not. If you are insecure every day, fear and ignore the efforts of the Federal Government and the police, then this is not responsible and not in the sense of the matter. Finally, it is still a special concern to say thank you to all those in the security field, starting with the police, the police, the personnel in the security administration, and our Minister of the Interior Nehammer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The times are not simple, not easy, and we know your professionalism and your use very much appreciate. We're proud of our police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32622	No one is reporting on this. The discussions on this subject have ended. I would like to thank the Federal Minister and may the meeting be held by Wednesday, the 18th. November, 9:00 a.m. Negotiations will be conducted with subheadings 21: Social, 22: Pension insurance and 21: Consumer protection continued. The sitting was suspended. [[23:50:57]] [[The meeting would be held on Tuesday, 17. November 2020, at 23.50 p.m. and on Wednesday, 18th. November 2020, resumed at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:54]] Continued the meeting: 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32671	I'll start the interrupted session again. After a short night, I can welcome you back here in the plenary room. I can welcome journalistics and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions. First of all, I should like to point out the following: We have today a irradiation action by Parliament. The Hofburg is irradiated in red in the course of the Red Wednesday, where persecuted Christians are commemorated worldwide. This is an initiative of the Church in Emergency, in which today, among other things, Stephansdom and 50 other churches and monasteries and institutions will shine red in Austria. ==References== November – this is more intense in these winter months – is to strengthen awareness of the initiative of the International Day against Violence against Women. ==References====External links== In November, the Hofburg in Orange illuminated to raise awareness of violence against women in the course of Orange the World and to draw attention to it with actions. On the World AIDS Day on 1st. We would like to draw attention to this topic by attaching the red loop to the Hofburg. In addition, the Hofburg will last two days, 2nd and 3rd. ==References====External links== Purple Light Up is a global campaign to raise awareness for participation and, above all, inclusion of people with disabilities. I have also been asked to address the request to colleagues that if you take the mask at the speaker's desk, put it in or hold it in your hand, instead of putting it on the pult, because the mask is still damp and the pult cannot be disinfected after every speaker – if you would please use so much thoughtfulness. For today's session as prevented, MEPs are reported Franz Leonhard Eßl, Mag. Michael Hammer, Klaus Köchl, Bedrana Ribo, Maund Süleyman Zorba. I am allowed to announce that the ORF will transfer the meeting as usual, live until 1 p.m. in ORF 2 and until 7.15 p.m. in ORF III and then in the TV library. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32735	It was decided yesterday for today’s session day a day-block time of 9 “Vienna hours”. I can recall the speaking times: 176 minutes for the ÖVP, 122 for the SPÖ, 99 for the FPÖ, 90 for the Greens, 72 for the NEOS and for those ladies and gentlemen who do not belong to any political group, 36 minutes and 5 minutes for each debate. The breakdown of consultations is known. We continue the budget consultation. [[09:08:42]] UG 21: Social affairs UG 22: Pension insurance UG 21: Consumer protection
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32786	We start with subheadings 21: Social Affairs, 22: Pension insurance and 21 consumer protection, on which the debates take place under one. First of all, Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs have reported Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32810	Good morning, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of State! High house! Yesterday we started to discuss the hacker scheme, better told that the fees should not get away, and the women's pensions have always been put into play. I would like to draw attention to this again today. We know it's still the sad truth that women on average receive only half as much pension as men, and we all know the reasons for that. It is the outdated role models that lead to the fact that women are still mostly caring for childcare and care. This leads to women working in part-time, poorly paid jobs, but it is precisely those women who receive a low pension, which are the so-called system holders – who work in care, who work in commerce – who are now again the heroes in this lockdown crisis. However, the abolition of the discount-free hacker regime does not alter the injustice that women still earn less than their male colleagues and therefore receive little pension. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Women receive no more cents due to the abolition of the hacker scheme, the discount-free pension, but we as SPÖ want a real improvement in women's pensions. We want to offer a comprehensive childcare, we want to offer an improved billing of child rearing times and we also want women who are already in retirement to receive 50 euros in addition to pension per month when they have child care periods. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, if you really want to contribute to making pensions more fair for women, then today you have the opportunity to agree to our motion for a resolution, as well as the ÖVP, which has always claimed from the very beginning – which is absolutely wrong – that the non-returnable hackler regime would affect women. There is also the opportunity for you today to vote in favour of our motion for a resolution. We made this motion for a resolution in September 2019, and it was decided at the time. I will bring him in again – let us see how the vote will take place today. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. – I hope we vote in favour of higher women’s pensions. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[9:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32943	The application is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Schalmeiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e32968	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Under normal circumstances, we would probably be sitting here today and talking about a care reform – a care reform as the core of the current government agreement, a care reform that is supposed to bring this much-quoted big throw on this future theme of care. Why we don't do this today is probably, I think, here everyone is clear: This is due, among other things, to the issue of Corona, as well as to the commitment of resources and capacities that we currently need to combat pandemics. We need to be clear about this – and we should be aware of it – this care reform needs to be very, very urgently, and it is about very, very big issues. It is about ensuring decent remuneration for the caregivers. It is about creating incentive systems such as a reward already during training, similar to the model of the police. It is about creating a training that is so modular and so permeable in all directions that it is attractive that it is aimed at quality that people like to train and continue training. It is about creating incentive systems for new professionals and new professionals. It is a question of facilitating the recognition of training. The example is always: What do nurses who have been in the rescue service for many years and then perhaps out of this rescue service? and want to go to the care service, for example? In fact, from my point of view, they are far too little. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] But it is also a matter of ensuring sustainable relief from caring relatives – and if we are already talking about caring relatives, we also need to talk about caring for minors. Even here, it is important to accompany these people accordingly, to relieve these people or, of course, to ensure that they do not get into the situation of caring for older people. There is a need for clear answers to questions such as those relating to Communitynurses. It is important to discuss once again the carefree day and to consider how we can anchor it, but it is also about implementing prevention measures and prevention concepts, as well as how we can ensure decent monitoring through the previous mentioned community training or through so-called ANPs. We're in the middle of a trial started in January. It is certainly one of the largest participation processes that are currently taking place in this country, where thousands of practitioners have also been able to contribute to digital participation models through platforms, digital participation models, where people who really come from the middle of care have their opinion, their expertise, and it is now important to implement this expertise, all of which is steaming and in a decent, very targeted reform. Under normal circumstances, we would be discussing this today. I hope that we will then sit in here at the very latest in a year and finally catch up with this discussion, and then we will be able to launch this care reform. Then the whole thing will also appear in the budgets accordingly. In this budget, it cannot be illustrated, because, as I said, the care reform is not on its way – next year it is all the more secure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33022	Mrs Belakovich is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33043	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the topic of social security, pension insurance and consumer protection is a very large area. My predecessor has now been thinking about the care reform. The message I'm hearing is that it's not shown in the budget what you've told me here, and that's exactly the problem: In the whole social field, it is not, in fact, financially at all that there should now be more money for any areas. The so-called "Poverty Law" should now come alone – the poverty law is intended for families, for minimum pension families, who are now to receive 100 euros a year. Get this through! This is about 8 euros a month. That is to say, this is the very big social policy of the Federal Government, which is what we give to these people in addition. At 8 euros a month, families living at the poverty threshold can think about what they do with it: Do you buy something for the children or buy fuel for heating? – Quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, this is really a plant that you could actually save yourself. On the other hand, we see a planned massive social reduction, which we discussed for a long time yesterday. The so-called long-term insured pension should be removed. The money should now somehow be redistributed – or not. There were not even the two government groups that agreed with the Federal Chancellor. Apparently, Wöinger and Maurer have not read the small print. This too will not come as they tried to explain it to us yesterday. So here you take away the money from those who have really worked a lot, and then you probably try to do the next harvest of pensions in the future. We have already seen this during the special care periods: They were originally decided; now they should not apply because they say suddenly with a pocket player trick: Well, the schools are open anyway, all children can be cared for anyway! - All this happens. That is, big announcements are made, great promises are made, but if the citizens outside actually insist that they would like this, it says: Well, we're sorry, it's not now! Because the money is not there because of all these funny programmes that you are here for the large industry and for multinational corporations – these are those that actually got money from these various aid funds. This must now be brought back to the Austrians, to the workers, because this must be paid by anyone. This usually does not pay for the policy that taxpayers pay, and therefore is precisely the reason why you are trying to save here now, and why you are now getting the money back through the social benefits from the people. I say quite honestly to you, ladies and gentlemen, that is a shame to this country, because what you have said to the people would cry out that there is also a massive increase in all these social wells, including the pension stopper, because it has earned the citizens. Because Mr Wöginger made himself here yesterday and said that this was the greatest pension increase of all time he has ever experienced, I would like to remind him of this: It hasn't been that long since, because it happened a year ago that she was still a bit higher. So obviously you try to use any superlatives here all the time. What people actually do stay in the wallet in the end then looks quite different – and that is what the citizens feel outside. Therefore, I must tell you that I think this social budget is a very imaginative budget. Shorting is always easy to promise anything and then not to keep it is always easy. But if you sit down and really deal creatively with the reality of the lives of the citizens outside, then, ladies and gentlemen, it looks a bit sad. We would have expected a lot more, including you, Mr Minister, that you would spend a little more money for the citizens there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33095	Member of the Wöginger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33116	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply not true that there is no more budget in the area of social affairs, in the UG 21. It will be more than 200 million euros for the coming year, even because we are already providing initial funding for the care reform process. The funds for the valorization of the care allowance as well as the abolition of the care rule are also secured by the year 2024. So we have 200 million euros in the budget, plus 100 million euros, which is finally covered by the Constitutional Act. Yeah, we're in the middle of this process. The Federal Minister has set up a very broad discussion platform with us, as I believe. Care is all about us: We have around one million people who are directly or indirectly associated with care, there are 460,000 care professionals in Austria and we are also very much concerned with the support of family members at home. After all, up to 80 percent of those concerned are cared for and cared for at home, as it also applies to those who perform these great achievements, mostly in the family community, - it is mostly women who take it - to pay the necessary respect and recognition. This will be a priority in this care money reform, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies of Disoski and Ernst-Dziedzic.]] Secondly, we are trying to pool the financial flows. Care is a matter which is not just a federal matter; it is about the countries, it is about the communities, about the associations in which the communities are involved in structurally responsible matters, and we should do everything we can to make these funding flows more efficient. We need to make them clearer and, just as in the health system, we need to create a clearer responsibility through a federal government target management committee, a clearer competence. I'm here for good, but we've got a few other topics to deal with this year. In addition to the pandemic and the biggest economic crisis, we are trying to move forward. I also thank the Minister! To the area of pensions: If you are now putting support measures for women into the debate, I advise you to simply agree to the early starter bonus on Friday. That's the best means there's ever. There are up to EUR 840 per year, in particular women who have started working soon. You're free, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] You are free to do so because you do not have to do anything else in the system, which will be clearly presented and you can give your consent. Overall, I am glad that we have a good pension system in Austria. If you compare this with our neighbouring countries, you can see that the situation looks much different there. For example, I live on the Bavarian border and I do not want to exchange with the Germans as far as the pension system is concerned: You just come to a good thousands when you've worked 50 years – 50 years! – and that twelve times a year, not 14 times. So, as I believe, we are well positioned, but we must bring sustainability back into the system. It is therefore important to screw back sugar and install a just solution, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're going to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] I would like to mention the pension division. We are in discussions to reach a solution. Willingly, this is already happening, but it is supposed to be a commitment if a partner is committed and takes care of in particular. This should then also be expressed in the pension. This is where we are negotiating, and there are solutions in the government programme. In conclusion, however, I would like to mention the alleged progress coalition in Vienna. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] Although I have not been able to read progress from this coalition programme – as far as I have now come with this programme, I do not see anything pink red. [[in documents]] I thought it had to be at least pink. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger enters the hall and goes to their seat.]] . Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger is now coming, which is very good, because I brought you something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[The speaker places a large, red glazed punched with a cherry on the speaker's desk.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] - No, that's all right, Beate, that's all right! You can still divide it in the club; all 15 members may not get something, but some may be able to bear it. I have not yet read the programme completely, but I have looked through the social area and above all the chapter Pensions. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: (on the way to a table near the speaker's desk, on which there is a bottle of disinfectant) I just disinfect my hands!]] – Food form – yes, right. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I have looked at the area of pensions – I have it, it is a proud half-page in this coalition paper – and I know very well the statements of NEOS. [[Keeping a sheet of paper in height]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] Mr Loacker, who is a profound expert in matter, does not leave a meeting and then beats us every time with the abolition of luxury pensions and with sustainability in the system. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be right in the city of Vienna, since something has finally to be done! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There we have the earliest age of entry with the parish staff. Now you can say: You can afford that to anyone, my God, it's up to them. – I say something else: I am Upper Austrian and I do not understand that the other eight federal states actually implemented the federal reform, but who did not do it? - Vienna! [[Call the ÖVP: Uh!]] In Vienna it takes up to 2042 until this reform is implemented! That's the progress coalition? Transitional periods up to 2042? Well, if it's what the NEOS bring together in a coalition, then: Have the honor! [[Complementary and intermediate calls to the ÖVP.]] I'm not that good, but it seems that the red bulldozer has gone over the pinks. You always call for the end of the luxury pensions. I don't have much time now, but you can say it with just a few sentences: In Vienna there are hundreds of approaches to clean up luxury pensions, at least with the special pension limitation law, which is still criticised, which we have at the federal level. However, this is not implemented in Vienna, it does not even apply to the Vienna pensioners. [[Abg. Hear: Ah!]] Please! I also deliberately chose these cherrys in red. I wanted to have a pink cherry first – with food colors it would have gone somehow – but I don't find anything pink in this program! Therefore, a red wrench for the NEOS.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33275	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33301	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! A small cabaret of colleagues Wöginger as a great distraction maneuver, for who has been responsible for everything that happens in the federal government since 1986. – The ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Many young people in Austria – and not only young people but also middle-aged ones – have never experienced a government without ÖVP in this country. This ÖVP has broken the pension system, and the green minister is now continuing to do so. In addition, only a small neckline: If you look at the Federal Financial Framework Act on this budget, you can see that in the breakdown pension insurance the hole goes from 10 to 14 billion euros – by 40 percent. That doesn't matter to the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then one rips up the sleep and pretends to be committed to solid finances, and in reality the money is peppered out with both hands. This year we have an extra-tourist pension increase of 3.5 percent. The working people who, with their contributions, finance the system, the metallurgists, for example, who are represented by colleagues Wimmer and by other trade unions, get 1.45 percent increase in wages, but the pensioners get 3.5 percent. Last year it was 3.6 percent – with both hands out! A pension bonus has also been introduced. The farm pensions are very important, we have improved them, and now comes the early starter bonus – another bonus! What money we're paying for is meat. We also abolished the waiting period for the first pension increase – and now the hole stops by 40 percent. What's 40 percent? I ask the entrepreneurs: Will you earn 40 percent more over the next four years? I ask the employees and the workers: Will you earn 40 percent more over the next four years? - I don't think so. However, it is spent 40 percent more on pensions. There are these Clugdings – you can't say that without getting a call for order –, Clugdings like my colleague Ottenschlager, who made an broadcast yesterday, in which he said: [[Abg. Kassinger: Smart-pep-piep!]] I call for the NEOS to be liberal in economic terms. The Chamber of Commerce – this is not exactly liberalism, but economy – has made proposals to improve the pension system. If we propose the same as the Chamber of Commerce, even the economic allies in Parliament are voting against it, so, under quotations, these are “economic liberalisation”. But always tear up the panties! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Worm.]] If the ÖVP were an animal, it would be a crocodile, because the mouth is also the largest. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The experts are even ignored. Mr Kocher says that what Mr Badelt says, it does not matter what the chairperson of the Pensioners' Commission says. You ignore the experts and make your policy. Why? – There are more voters who are over 70 years old than there are voters under 30. The fact that the voters who are under 30 have losses in education that will also be reflected in loss of income; that they will have a more difficult career entry, because they are based on your chaotic corona policy; that, if they are already in the job, they have fewer opportunities to rise, it does not matter, because there are fewer voters under 30 anyway than there are voters over 70. So if we thank you again and say how great we are in the care: Of 4 euros spent in addition for work, social affairs and pensions, 3 euros go to pensions – and that is what you think is fair over there. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is only about the voter voter. You don't even care about the old people, because when it comes to the old people, you have to think, for example, about why a 24-hour caregiver doesn't get the corona test paid before she goes back to her caretaker at the three-week shift. This must be paid either by the caregivers or by the caregivers themselves. The old people would have something of that, of which the health system would really have something. But it is not about the good of people, but only about the voices.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33384	Federal Minister Anschober is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33405	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! As the debate here has begun, I would like to take the opportunity to make a few fundamental comments on the chapters under discussion, because it is particularly important for me to clarify a few points in this context. On the one hand: At the beginning we heard a speech on women's old-age pensions. I very much welcome this, because the number involved is one that is really embarrassing for Austria from my personal point of view, because an average age pension is EUR 1 035. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that is where the Republic has the most acute need for action. That is why it will be a primacy for us and for me in every single measure in the pension area that we want to achieve significant improvements. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wöger.]] 1 035 euros, tens of thousands of women in poverty – that can't be so, that can't stay like that! This is the legacy of many previous governments, including many ministers of social affairs – a few people will now feel affected here – as we have something to do, quite consistently and honestly. That is why we have started the increase in the pension system, i.e. by staged it for the coming year and as part of the current pension increase. You know, we have increased the compensation allowances to at least EUR 1 000. Who does that benefit? – It is precisely these groups of people who are currently in a very, very difficult situation. Mr Loacker, it can be argued, from a very wealthy situation in which we are all, fine to people who do not even have a thousand euros per month to live. [[Abg. Loacker: Number...!]] – Where else, if not, should we act if we take social policy seriously! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] To go here, Mr Loacker, and to divide the people in voters' votes and voters' votes there, cannot be a serious matter of politics. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, on which you ride all the time!]] We do not have to use vote maximization, but a reduction in poverty – that must be our goal. [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, you do! You make vote maximation without regard to the boys!]] That must be our goal, and that is why the increase in the pension rate as we have implemented it is staggered – much stronger in those who need it, and much lower in those who need it less. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] The same goal has the early starter bonus now anchored. I'm proud of it, and we've been getting congratulations for days. [[Abg. Belakovich: Take away the money from people!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Well, please...!]] – Mr Wurm, I know you won't get any congratulations. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] You probably don't know what that is, that's the problem. [[Abg. Belakovich: Go, please...!]] Yeah, I'll tell you later in the bilateral dialogue, which is a congratulation. I don't think you know that. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich, Mr Worm and Mr Lausch.]] So we get congratulations from the trade unions, from the Chambers of Workers and especially from the area of women's organizations – and they know what is necessary in this country, who know what to do. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If we achieve a clear improvement for all those who have at least 25 years of contribution and who have made the corresponding contributions between 15 and 20, for this area, for small and medium-sized pensions, then this is a significant second step towards greater justice in this pension system – in favour of women and in favour of small pensions. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! – Listen, Mr Worm and Mrs Belakovich! [[The Belakovich and Wurm MEPs are talking to each other.]] Well, if you get back in the morning, that's good. That is why I am always very pleased about such debates at this morning. – The second area is the care. Listen carefully! There have been previous governments, as well as your government involvement, which have announced a comprehensive care reform for decades. What has become of it so far? - Zero, nothing has become out of it. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, what have you brought together so far? Nothing!]] We do not announce, but we are implementing this care reform and we are in the middle of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, when? Where?]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have three specific goals; and these are important for people who are now considering how it should look at old age, for people who know – great! – they will live longer than their parents than their grandparents, who know that there must be plans now. That is why there are three priorities in this government and for me as Minister of Social Affairs: Firstly, we want to guarantee security. That means we also need a lot, much more employees. That means we're going to start a program and are just at the beginning of it. Especially the Corona Labor Foundations will have a central focus in this area. We need more than 100 000 new employees by 2030, which will be the largest job engine in this Republic – for very different areas. I already apply for this area, for example for young men – that is quite, very important – that they also go to care. The Boys’ Day, which we have just had, is at the heart of this motto to convey: That's a great job for you too! – Security is thus the first premise. The second premise, ladies and gentlemen, must be varied for us. It cannot be that an elderly person has no choice, and therefore we will also put very strongly on new models, on additions, on alternative models, for example on cross-generational forms of housing. This is about opening up this area, about bringing creativity in to regional planning approaches, about giving architects with new ideas a forum for them to act – that is diversity. The third, based on this diversity, will be to go very strongly towards self-determination of the affected elderly. Every person in this republic who comes into the situation of a need for care must have a real freedom of choice between the different forms of care. This is a further way, this is a huge goal that we have set ourselves. We are currently working on this in the largest participation process in this Republic these days. For the first time, this will not be a care reform from the desk, not a care reform that invents politics, but we work with those concerned and based on their competences, their assessments, their know-how. They are involved in all areas, and I believe that is already half the guarantee that we will achieve a good result in this area. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! How does the schedule look? – He is very, very ambitious: We want to complete the package until January, so finalize it in the course of January. There are now several thousand people involved in this reform process in terms of content development. We have had over 3 300 participants in our digital participation process. So, January – and then we will gradually go towards a target control committee in order to create the grand thing that we are trying to achieve, for the first time, a truly common action of municipalities, cities, countries and states. We want to act together, with the aim of gradually moving towards common standards, with the aim of common funding, i.e. unbundling and improving efficiency, even in the financial flows – that is a very important part – and with the aim – that is the absolute priority, I have already said – to win 100 000 new employees for this great profession, for this future profession. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Third point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Of course, this most severe pandemic for 100 years, this most severe economic crisis for many decades also leads to our social and health systems coming to their limits. We must be extremely careful, careful and secure. That is quite, very important, and I think there is a fundamental consensus about this objective in this House. We have therefore commissioned a large, comprehensive study at the Economic Research Institute, the IHS and others with the aim of presenting a witness about the social situation in Austria after the outbreak of the pandemic, and I can tell you that it is very, very revealing results in this study. The pleasure is that, obviously, we have achieved a stabilisation in the area of vulnerable people – but we must not give in to it, because you have to constantly re-adjust and stick to it – in the area of vulnerable people, and in recent months we have not had a bad situation, despite this serious crisis. That's good, but we have to keep working on it. That is why I very much welcome the fact that this Federal Government will also increase unemployment benefit in a second tranche. This too is an important contribution in this direction. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this study has shown, I believe, 200 pages that we already have areas of population that are particularly affected. These are areas of population such as single and single parents who have come to a very difficult triple burden, which is also particularly affected financially and economically. We also need to take a number of additional countermeasures. That's what we're working on. Even in the area of smaller self-employed, individual entrepreneurs, who have often come into a very precarious situation, we are working towards countering. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As much as the challenge of the pandemic in the health field is – we will, I think, get into this debate intensively, and I am looking forward to it because it is currently an extremely acute debate and problem – the impact in the social field is so great. It remains the concrete and great objective that we want to avoid that this serious health crisis will also be a serious social crisis. This must be our common concern in this House and in the Federal Government. We're working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33636	The next item is Mrs Fischer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33657	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Consumer protection is particularly important in a crisis especially in difficult times. It is important to be there for those people who cannot help themselves who call the Consumer Information Association and ask for advice, for example, if they do not want to take or can take a long booked trip and have to cancel or withdraw it and ask how it works. I am particularly pleased here today – here also a warm thanks to the coalition partner and to the Federal Minister – that we have together made a good consumer protection budget. Especially in a crisis, it is important to be there for people who cannot help themselves in every situation of life. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I am not used to paying attention to consumer protection, because we normally talk about it at 10 a.m. in the evening, so thank you very much for your attention. I bring a few figures, data, facts and then a few practical examples. On the balance sheet of the Consumer Information Association: 70,000 consultations are carried out each year, 1,500 interventions and 290 procedures, with a success rate of 90 percent. That is, the Consumer Information Association works very efficiently. There is a new managing director, and for next year we launched a VKI financing law. However, it is important to ensure medium-term financing of consumer protection and thus also of the Consumer Information Association. We're working on this together. In the area of consumer protection, the balance between economy and consumer protection is also important. In this respect, it will also be very important to implement the two Directives in the field of guarantee and in the field of associations of action. That's what we'll do next year. The question was raised during the last plenary sessions: Is there money for the debtor's advice? – Yes, there is money for the debtor’s advice: 500 000 euros. I This money is well established in this difficult time. Of course, there has to be a signal effect from the federal states, because debtor consulting does not only work through federal support. It was also possible to reach a good agreement with the countries. I believe that consumer protection concerns all of us, and we can only do it together. Finally, I would like to mention – I see, the lamp is already red – just one example: data protection. Post AG had to pay 18 million euros because it used data unlawfully. This money has only been paid together with consumer protection organisations. Another example is the breast implants. They all know how terrible it was when silicone came out in the body of 7,000 women. It was successful to help these women through a European collective complaint, in which the VKI was also involved. Often you can only create these things together, because alone you feel affected, you have the feeling that you can't, but together we are strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33712	The next item is the report by Mr Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33733	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Let's talk about justice at the pension! I've prepared something. [[a table with a column diagram showing the state-funded share of pensions of different working groups, pointing to the speaker's desk]] How does justice look at the pension? Workers and employees receive 11 percent of their pension from means of taxation, officials receive 47 percent of their pension from means of taxation, self-employed people receive 54 percent of their pension from means of taxation, and farmers receive 95 percent of their pension from means of taxation. [[Abg. Zarits: Always the same!]] Now I have nothing against farm pensions; the SPÖ has introduced them. But you have to look very carefully: What are you doing now, Mr. Anschober and the party? – The game says: Although that is the reality, we still take away something from those with the least tax resources inside. [[pointing to the column diagram]] That's politics. If we look very closely at the financial statements in 2019 – which we decided yesterday – we will notice that we had provided more money for workers and employees in the budget. We needed 900 million euros less in pensions for workers and employees than was actually foreseen in the budget. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you are workers and employees, you have paid it and have returned it, we have not needed it at all. What do Anschober and Co? – You are now taking away a pension benefit from us. Dear Rudi! Very simply, if you have paid the workers who have spent a long time - we have a principle of performance: Those who pay long, pay high contributions, will also receive a higher pension. By the way, if you take this away from men, you'll take it away from married women, because they can't go on vacation either. I'm just saying: I would have liked to see your form of justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] I say that now in simple language, quite simply [[a panel entitled “Whoever chooses ÖVP will be poor!” on the speaker’s desk]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Amesbauer]] Whoever chooses ÖVP will be poor! - You can see that now. [[Abg. Worm: Not everyone! Not everyone!]] – Not all, not a few empires, but those who choose ÖVP as workers will be poor. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] You can see this by the pensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] And once again, even in simple language [[a board with the title “Whoever wants to live well in old age must choose SPÖ!”]] If you want a pension – and you can prove it in history – you have to choose SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33862	Mr Stöger, you should have read the whole text. I can ask you to speak again. [[Abg. Hear: Can you take your Taferl with you right now!]] You only read the first sentence. Read the whole text!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e33889	I will continue to read: "In addition, the Federal Government is invited to adapt the existing non-refundable pension at 45 working years to include: - all occupational groups receive this pension, - a recalculation of all pension and rest benefits of 1.1.2021, based on § 15 APG (account credit) or granted with a deadline from 1.1.2014 and before 1.1.2020, thus carrying out reductions of up to 12.6 percent despite 540 contribution months, in order to ensure that these benefits are paid without deductions from 1.1.2021, and - periods of presence and civil service as a contribution month of employment for the pensionable pension of 45 years of work are recognised.’ Thank you very much. [[9:54]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34023	The motion for a resolution has now been properly tabled, sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Weidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34047	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians and all the people who live in this country! First of all, I would like to refer to Mr Stöger's speech and would like to oppose it clearly, because the facts are, of course, completely different. Firstly, the compensation allowance will be increased by 3.5 percent, so from next year there will be a minimum pension of 1 000 euros. The small and medium-sized incomes or pensions will be increased so that people in old age have more money in their pockets, we strengthen purchasing power and we also express our respect and appreciation for the mature generation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] To Mr Loacker: So, Mr. Loacker, that you do not enjoy standing out here – now you are in a government for the first time and in this coalition package you have forgotten all the purposes and all the data and implementations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] That proves you're just making populist opposition policy here. The NEOS are hardly in charge, there are no implementations of their full-bodied promises, not even in the form of a purpose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They did a comparison with the animal kingdom that was totally inappropriate. As you have done this, I would also like to make a comparison, ladies and gentlemen. The NEOS went pink to the Vienna election and came out red again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call: That hurts you]] The government's policy, ladies and gentlemen, clearly builds on the fact that we are there for people. Social is what makes people strong. We support with the children bonus, with the family bonus families and children in Austria. We have introduced the Family Hard Fund, where there are payments for families in difficulty. We create social participation for young people. We provide support for clubs that are very essential in the sports and cultural field, especially for our youth. We are doing this by taking a decision here that financial knowledge in all areas as lifelong learning is introduced as a principle in order to prepare young people for the challenges of life and the economy. We have launched a process to secure the VKI permanently. We support debt advice. With the short work, we create a chance that people who now have the right to worry and need will have a chance to get through the crisis in their businesses in the next weeks and months. We have introduced a work foundation of 700 million euros so that the people who will then be in training can continue to learn in the field of care and digitization. This is the policy that we, as a government, are pushing for the majority of parliament here. I invite you – that is especially the address of the opposition – to: Stop splitting the population! Stop playing groups against each other! Work with a red and white-red shoulder closure – in the interests of the Republic and the people in our country! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We believe in the people who trust the government – and so we will cope with the crisis together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34111	Mrs Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34132	Mr President. Estimated Minister! First of all, before I talk about care, I say, I have to It's easy to smile. Once again, you can see how incredible it is to break the ÖVP internally in view of the fact that there is finally a federal state that is not ÖVP-dominated and governed. [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] It is really good that a social-liberal coalition will begin in Vienna for the first time. This all-power idea should eventually be turned back by the ÖVP. But: I stand here again after a year and think that a year has passed in the care, for a year nothing has happened. On the one hand, I understand the system brakes from the ÖVP that they don't really want to go on here, so that they can cover their lofts, whether auxiliary or other, but on the other hand I don't understand the greens at all, because it's the command of the hour to take care of them. We can talk about agriculture, we can talk about education, we can talk about many areas – that is macularity compared to these two major topics, namely care and health. If you do not recognize this, the Austrian Federal Government and the Austrian Parliament will never bring together a structure in the budget. To make people understand this outside: What is this essentially about? On the one hand, we have the content structure – how is maintained today –: In addition to many people who are watching today, her grandmother or her mother is looking at her hourly, casually, as they, like 90 percent of people, provide for her at home. We have created many, many possibilities so that this care can take place at home, because man also deserves to grow old in his well-known environment, to be cared for and to live in his residential area, to have his family there. We need to build up these possibilities. We need to see that we provide more at home. We need to see that we guarantee this supply. This brings me to the second point, namely the human approach: We have been talking about personal care in this area for three years, and the Wöginger is sitting there and if it does not fit him, then he cries in and makes everyone down, but he ultimately does not bring it together. We have proposed it a dozen times: Let's start with a systematized care teaching according to the Swiss model and slowly expand it – degrees as caregivers, qualifications as qualified staff. What did you do? - Nothing because you want to slow down! You are also not interested in the fact that we implement the care in any form concretely, otherwise you might have thought about the fact that there could be a relief for qualified staff if someone else carried out the list, such as the Swedishs have been doing for ten years and the Germans for 15 years. They have thus achieved savings of millions over millions of euros, because the diplomats no longer have to take care of the box with the medicines for the old people every evening. All these are system approaches that you just leave out. The third point is financing: They talk about financing and know very well that we have hundreds of different payment flows. It might be a small contribution to consider how these payments flows can be coordinated by federal, regional and local authorities. The people who have earned their well-deserved money – also due to the hackler's pension – ultimately need it at the end of the day and also in the care. Therefore, we make the following request again: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that the reading was correct and that the request was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34221	Mr Ragger, I would like to try to read them out. It won't help.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34236	Then I read the lung version: ‘- the system in force at 1.1.2020 is basically maintained as a basis and in § 236 para. 4b ASVG and the analogous provisions in the GSVG and BSVG times of the presence and civil service are recognised as the contribution months of employment, - non-retirement in respect of 540 months of contribution, analogous to the provisions of § 236 para. 4b ASVG is regulated for officials as well as for permanent post and train staff; and - the recalculation of all pension and rest benefits with 1.1.2020, which are based on § 15 APG (account credit) or which have been granted with a deadline from 1.1.2014 and before 1.1.2020 and thus have deposits up to 12.6 percent despite 540 contribution months. These benefits shall be paid retroactively with 1.1.2020 without deductions.’ [[10:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34322	Thank you. The motion for a resolution has now been properly tabled. If we find a new opportunity in the Rules of Procedure, I am immediately ready to shorten these reading exercises. I hope that this will be possible with the electronic Parliament. The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Grebien is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34350	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear Colleagues! Appreciate sisters at home! Yesterday I was able to talk a little bit about the budgetary successes in the Social Ministry in the area of people with disabilities. The compensation tax fund, ATF in short, was increased by 40 million euros for 2021 and 2022. I will now tell you what we can do with this additional EUR 40 million, and what we want to do. On the one hand, we want to cover the expected collapse in the ATF's revenue. As we know, the declining employment rate and the financial difficulties of individual, small and medium-sized enterprises are expected to fall. In 2020, the deficits of 1.11.2020 amounted to around 4 million euros. For the years 2021 and 2022, higher failures are expected, and we want to compensate for them with the corresponding increase. Secondly, we want to maintain and develop support structures for people with disabilities. What does that mean? – A number for you: In 2019, 92 000 young and older people with disabilities received support from the ATF in Austria. We will, of course, continue to support these people. The support structures include project and individual support. I would first like to address the promotions of projects, such as the vocational training assistance, the Young people with disabilities are accompanied by a part-qualification teaching or extended teaching so that they can thereafter take a good professional footing. Part-qualification teaching means, as the word already reveals, I learn a part of a teaching profession. In my example, Ms. Superwoman makes a partial qualification teaching as a cook and does not learn the contents of the entire cooking doctrine, but, for example, places a focus on breakfast. Your degree in partial qualification is recognised by the WKO. The extended teaching, which also betrays the word, means that one can extend the teaching time by a maximum of one year. In my example, Mrs. Superwoman decides to teach a cook; in order to learn the whole content, she needs longer, and she does not complete her teaching after three years, but after four years. After that, she has a recognised and full degree in teaching. Another project, for example, is the work assistance that accompanies people on their way to the labour market and when they get into work – it supports very people-centered, targeted and, so to speak, on the Job. This means that the job itself is supported and not in a pre-arranged training facility. That is to say, another example, after her successful degree in teaching, Ms. Superwoman is being helped to get into a fixed job. The work assistants help them to carry out the processes optimally in their job and accompany them in the first work steps. The third project funding is job coaching. This is a measure with a focus on people with learning difficulties and people with higher support. Job coaching is a very close support network compared to work assistance and professional training assistance. It includes the support in the job – whether it is internships or slippers – then an intensive accompaniment at the workplace itself, by training people with disabilities on the one hand, but on the other hand also raising the awareness of the employees in the enterprises to the needs and the necessary adjustments of work structures. This is a very essential contribution. These were the project promotions, now I go to the individual promotions: There is, for example, the promotion of inclusion, which in the first years takes over a wage subsidy for the new employees with disabilities, so that businesses also have an incentive to hire people with disabilities. An individual promotion to bring more women with disabilities into work is, for example, the promotion of inclusion for women. As you know, women with disabilities in our patriarchal society are repeatedly discriminated against. We would like to achieve an increase of 42 per cent in the proportion of currently 37 per cent, which would be about 375 more women receiving a training place. Summary: A total of 7 000 new places will be created, both in projects and in individual funding. There will be more and better accompaniment of young people in a part-qualification or extended teaching by creating 300 full-time equivalents in integrative establishments, so there will be more staff to support more young people. Finally – because the lamperl is already flashing –: Some already know that we will start a big project on personal assistance. To regulate personal assistance in a uniform manner and thus also to enable groups of people who have not yet been entitled to personal assistance – these are people with learning difficulties and people with mental disorders – to have access to them is very important to us Greens. They all know that personal assistance is essential in order to be able to participate in society in order to participate in the labour market to attend political events to raise the voice to be able to inform themselves, and yes, to protect themselves from abuse. Quite simply, ladies and gentlemen: to live self-determined and non-violent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34413	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34434	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! Inclusion is only very superficial in the current government programme. Paper is patient, and so there are classic tags waiting for them to live. However, in the budget, UG 21, Social Affairs, I was actually able to find a few figures that make me think that the government is slowly awakening and that there is an urgent need to do something in this area. For example, 40 million euros are spent in addition to the compensation tax fund. This money, according to Austrian disability council, unfortunately only stops the holes that Corona has eaten in the pockets, but it was at least recognized that it is necessary. For pilot projects in the areas of care, dementia and disability, another 40 million euros are envisaged – so far, so good. What these 40 million euros are exactly thought of was not so clear. Personal assistance is probably one of these projects, just like a dementia strategy; but how much exactly is planned for this, one cannot say exactly once again. It is worth mentioning the fact that the action target 2 "Extensive, barrier-free participation of people with disabilities in all areas of life" as an associated measure provides for the implementation of the National Action Plan, because I cannot often say enough how necessary it is to act at last. 1.4 million people have a right to social participation and a self-determined life, and politics has to ensure that this is possible. Recommendation 11 out of 27 recommendations from the National Action Plan on Disability states: ‘Finally financing measures to implement the NAP Disability 2022–2030’. Yes, inclusion is not a cheap product. Inclusion costs a lot of money, but we invest this money in our fellow human beings and in an inclusive future that benefits us all. That means for you and the 2022 budget: Stock up, enough and targeted! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But now to another focus, UG 22: Pensions. Yesterday we discussed long and detailed discussions on the discount-free early pension, but these answers to my budget questions deserve mention. My question was how much disbursements in the UG 22 would be reduced if a pension was to take place a month or a year later. – A one month later pension would mean a savings of around 172 million euros in 2021, and a one year later retirement would reduce the payment by around 2.4 billion euros. These are the debts that our children will not have to repay in the future, and we cannot defend ourselves. If we had been able to ask our grandparents, they would also have wanted it to be their children and Enkern's going well. And so I come from the grandparents right away to the old and nursing homes. Nowhere have there been as many announcements made in recent years as in the field of care. But what is happening is nothing at all. Numerous press conferences under Beate Hartinger-Klein, even more press conferences by Rudolf Anschhober, and many more will follow. Konstant is also the high rate of increase in demand for the Nimmersatt national leaders. Because of the complex, inefficient and ineffective care structures, these never get over the rounds with the money. That is why, this year, additional EUR 300 million will be thrown down for the countries in the context of the abolition of the care regime, but without providing countries with specific targets for care and quality. Mr. Health Minister, that can't go on! On the one hand, you flood the federal states with money, but on the other hand you do not control what the federal states do with it. That is why the answer to my budget question about Covid deaths in old and nursing homes has shaken me so much. In Austria, 1,945 people are currently dead in Corona, including, according to Minister 607, in nursing homes and old homes, and 323 of them – half, more than half – in the last month alone. Apparently, the risk groups were not adequately protected, and this shows once again that even since the summer was falling asleep grandly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We are now living with this pandemic for eight months, and neither the government nor the Heads of State were obviously able to take appropriate protection measures for the old and care homes. And precisely these country leaders who have been asleep in the whole crisis and who are too incompetent to take protective measures for nursing homes, will throw three-digit million sums – completely without targets. Minister, this is negligent! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In your home country of Upper Austria alone, 76 care homes have died at Corona, 62 of which have died in the last month alone. Even worse, it is only in Lower Austria and Burgenland: In Burgenland, all the nursing homes who died in Corona died only last month. The tragic thing about this is that many older people are obviously no longer able to be treated with the usual respiratory methods, because for them the breathing is often even more powerful than the corona disease in itself. If they can be breathed, on average they need a longer intensive treatment to recover half-way, and then, of course, there is bottlenecks on intensive care stations. Dear Minister, it is just inconceivable how They watch as the national leaders completely fail in crisis management. Bind the care funds to performance, quality and better care! We have too many corona deaths in nursing homes and too little protection in the countries. Come on. Please do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34520	Members of Parliament have been told that Scheucher-Pichler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34541	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members, but especially dear listeners! Allow me to begin by thanking all the health, health, health and social professionals for their great work in this difficult time. They do great things! For this really from the ÖVP Group a very special thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And I reject what my previous speaker said about NEOS – that we have forgotten the people in the nursing homes. On the contrary: This government has always put in place measures that focus on health. Every human life is worth a lot to us. Allow me to make a few comments from the point of view of the seniors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] – Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, you can still call in so loud, that's the reality. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] On the one hand, you criticize the measures, and on the other hand you complain that they are too small. It somehow doesn't fit in. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But, that fits wonderfully together...!]] But allow me to make a few comments from the point of view of the seniors. We are getting into quite a field of tension. This has been noted yesterday and I am aware of it today, because we, and I believe that all the groups of seniors were of equal opinion, actually wanted to draw a new picture in this society for the seniors. It is very bad when we are again presented as so sick, foldy and old and are reduced to a cost factor. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's what the ÖVP is doing!]] We want to have a new position in this society, because today 60 people are in the middle of life, ladies and gentlemen, and we are making an important contribution to the creation of value – to which I am still speaking, Mr Loacker – in the economy. [[Abg. Belakovich: Eh!]] [[Abg. Loacker:... the pension?]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... in the ÖVP-Senioren-Blow on the road!]] The seniors do important child care work, family work, but also care. I just made a phone call with an 80-year-old Klagenfurt, who told me – and who also asked me for support – that he was just organizing the care of his 98-year-old mother. That is the reality of today, and that is a good thing. Thank God we all get older, and thank God, and we all know that the pension system in Austria is set up in such a way that it is assured that it is correct and that it is social, and we are working on it. They seem to be against it – that's what surprises me. They seem to be against it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Loacker.]] Yesterday, Mr Pakolm of the Young ÖVP said quite correctly that we have this unwritten generation contract in Austria. Thank God we have that. As seniors, we have worked out our pension, but we also take responsibility for our children and for our grandchildren. Therefore: I don't understand everything that's being discussed yesterday and today. [[Rejoicing with members of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Loacker: What?! ...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Please be nice if you don't understand!]] Yes, it's over with reality. We want to support the low pensioners, we want to support those who often do not even have 1 000 euros. We want to raise the small and medium-sized pensions. We are increasing the compensatory allowance, and this is a very important aspect for women as well as for women's age poverty. The SPÖ and you from the opposition always demand this to vote on the other side But you're not with this. I really don't understand, because that's unrealistic! [[Abg. Belakovich: You don't understand anything! You always say you don't understand anything! You don't understand anything!]] We will decide on Friday a bonus, namely the early starter bonus. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] You're against it, too. This is up to 840 euros more especially for women – yes, up to, but again: [[Abg. Belakovich: See you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We want to secure the pension system in the long term. [[Abg. Loacker: Secure long-term with extra editions?! Think about it!]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] We want to make it safe and above all we want to strengthen small and medium-sized pensions. That's our goal. I would like to speak in another area, because it is also very important to me, namely the Corona Labor Foundation. It has already been said a lot about care reform today. Mr Ragger! In this context, I strongly reject: You also know that it is not true that we are blocking the care reform from the relief work, quite the contrary Much that is now to be implemented is in line with our long-standing demand – more support for the caring family, more durable care at home and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] But I do not want to deal with the care reform in detail now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I would like to stress that the Corona Work Foundation will train particularly practical care workers, and I think that is the right approach. [[Abg. Belakovich:... false resort!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Belarusian: Incorrect resort!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner]] I motivate the young people to look at this, because in the care there are many job opportunities and career opportunities, it can also become a vocation. Unfortunately, many have lost their jobs, and I think there are many opportunities to refocus and see if one might find a new task in the care and social field. In any event, I will continue to work to ensure that the framework conditions continue to improve, especially for caregivers and for people working in the social field. [[Abg. Belakovich: How do you use it?]] Again: I would like to thank all those who do very good work in the care and also in all other social areas during this difficult time. I don't think we can say thank you often enough. I am with you that we need to further improve the framework conditions, and we will do so. I hope and invite you that you will all be involved in this care reform and that you will also be involved in further reducing the lack of caregivers. A big thank you again, Minister of State. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Call the NEOS:Thank you!]] A great thank you to all those who work constructively in the social sector and in the care sector and thus also to the people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34839	Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34861	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! All of us who work in politics are confronted with some probably also legitimate accusations of the population, that politicians often talk a lot, that then it somehow happens when implementing, and that words often do not really follow concrete actions. Now we all have the opportunity here in Parliament and also the people at home to check all that we have heard about the care today very concretely, because today we decide on a budget for 2021. In the middle of the biggest health crisis for 100 years, of course, no one will say: In the field of care we must save! All parties today have said how important it is that we should now give proper gas in the care and not let people down. However, the tension is: The budget, which is to be decided today and which we are now discussing, is nothing. The Federal Minister has received a few small projects so that he can say that he does something too. While money seems to play no role in other areas and, when it comes to Mr Kurz's large donors, the millions and billions of people are present again and again, nothing happens in the care sector. We have enforced the valorization of the care money, which is also paid more every year and the inflation adjustment is made, against the will of the ÖVP. We have said that it can't be that you always go to politics every year and ask, please say how the ÖVP likes to see. We have said that there must be a legal claim. But, unfortunately, there is nothing in the budget for all the care measures we are discussing today. From my point of view, it is a shame to all the people who are working on the sick beds and in the mobile care sector on a day-by-day basis, to the doctors and all the people in the health professions who are doing their best every day, that politics is no longer clearly performing, but that we are now taking the Corona crisis as an excuse and saying: It's got to wait, we can't do anything in the care area. Every day we lose people who simply say they can't, because they do their best in a difficult area, and politics says: You just have to wait, but nothing specific happens. At Rudi Anschober I recognize a pattern: He has learned a lot in the short time, very much from Sebastian Kurz. For Rudi Anschober, the very first step is to take action, not to consider what should happen, but it is either an advertisement or an advertising link. If it wasn't so tragic, you'd have to wonder about it: Last week, Minister Anschober gave a press conference – this is nothing special – he does it anyway, I think, eight days a week – but he introduced videos. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Amesbauer and Mr Loacker.]] He introduced videos and said: We also need to lift the image of care. - That's not a bad thing in itself. Faith But do you really want any Sunday speeches and image videos to be enough without any specific data? We need to do something to improve the working conditions in the care sector as well! How should people have confidence in politics when we spend money on videos, but say that concrete measures must be taken to improve the working conditions of people who are now there for all of us 24 hours a day? That's a policy I can't take seriously. One point only, because now everyone is talking about appreciation: While we are all discussing, Mrs Schramböck is secretly planning the introduction of a nursing teaching. – The question is: Why does the Minister of Economic Affairs do this? One could say, since it does not do much in the economic field anyway, that it may have time to do so. At any rate, Mrs Schramböck, as a professionally uncompetent minister, is now in the process of introducing the care teaching, against the warning of all the people who are also working in this field. Everyone thinks that's a stupid thing. Why is Mrs Schramböck doing? – This is also about wage dumping, because it says: If you put 15 or 16-year-old boys and girls to the hospital bed, it might be cheaper. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] This is not the appreciation we need for the care profession. Unfortunately, the money and courage to do something here are lacking in this area. Therefore, I really ask that the words of all the parties that have been claimed today that care and appreciation for people are so important also finally follow actions and not just advertising videos and advertisements.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34936	Mr Litschauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34957	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV and via live stream! I would now like to devote myself to another subject, but, I believe, very important, namely consumer protection. If you are shopping on the Internet, then the PayPal payment function is certainly a term for you. There is, however, also a function called “Send money to friends and family. ” This also seems to be a very practical function. But if you are asked to use this function when shopping the Internet, I would be more advised to be careful because this function does not provide the protection that PayPal normally provides, and allows fraud to take off money, and the money ultimately does not matter. These tips and much more can be found on the homepage of Watchlist Internet. This project has been in place for a number of years, and it will again be supported by a total of EUR 20 000 from the Consumer Protection budget in 2021, as well as by the Internet Ombudsman, which will be supported with EUR 140 000. – I think that’s in total very well invested money. Last year, the Internet Ombudsman has dealt with 4 762 complaints and 5 584 requests from the field of right of withdrawal, in particular problems with the purchase of goods, with data protection, with payment on the Internet and also with copyright. This shows that this project provides very special support, which, as I believe, is also necessary in many areas. This is how the Internet Ombudsman helps, for example, if someone uploads a picture of you, so that you are not quite satisfied, but the one is not quite ready to delete this picture again. In this context, there are sometimes quite challenging situations, and the Internet Ombudsman also helps in these areas. I am very glad that an independent but state-recognised conciliation body has been created here and continues to be financially supported. Finally, I would like to start a call. In times of lockdown and restricted shopping opportunities, a lot is ordered online, and I would call on you to perhaps do so with regional providers. That is, I think, important for our economy. This ensures our jobs, but I think it also helps to prevent problems in the purchase of the Internet, because if the local providers are more or less tangible, it is certainly much easier to handle than if the providers are scattered around the world. Finally, I might also want to pay attention to the need to make the purchase a little more sustainable. At my last smartphone, for example, I have made sure that the battery is interchangeable and that every single component can also be re-ordered as a spare part. These are things you can look at. For example, the VKI also helps us with various product tests to find the right products, so that perhaps in the future even a little less waste can be generated and the products are used longer. I think that these are very important points in consumer protection, and I am already looking forward to if we can, together with the Ministry, implement some of them in the field of consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e34999	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35021	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, we have today a block of consumer protection, pensions and social security. You could probably talk about it for a day now. I'll try to get relatively short. First of all, on consumer protection: Yes, and every day the marmot greets. In recent years, this area has always been a stepchild. For information only: The consumer protection budget is 0.1 Promille of the total budget – so that you have about an idea of what dimensions we are talking about here. That means it doesn't matter in the budget. I'll give the Minister the right to: Consumer protection has always been a stepchild for the past few years and decades, no matter in any government constellation. However, I can tell you that, Minister: Under your rule, we have reached a new low in consumer protection, and that should not make you proud! Consumer protection in Austria has never been so far behind and below. I would like to give you a few examples: The Minister has managed to disband the consumer protection department in his own ministry, in a green ministry. That's really what the history books are. I'm excited how the Greens will ever argue. Whatever you have to say: In the VKI we have not brought together long-term financing again. This again means financing for a year and after that the VKI hangs back in the ropes. Whatever you have to say: Last week, there was another low point in consumer protection, when the Minister for Consumer Cooperation, which was given to us by the EU, agreed to give it to the Federal Office for Emissions and Surveys. He actually managed to do this – away from the competition authority, from an independent competition authority that has controlled that this is going to happen properly, to the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying under Minister Schramböck. That is to say, he has passed on this very central issue from consumer protection to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I think everyone who has a little idea about consumer protection knows what that means. The Eich- und Vereichungsamt has neither competence nor expertise, but is bound by the Minister of Economic Affairs. So there you make the bock a gardener, and more clearly, I believe, you can no longer make the failure of the Greens and the Minister on the whole level in consumer protection. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ]] The Minister is responsible for three ministries – more or less –: Consumer protection, social protection – both are not at all visible, feeling, quite the contrary, it goes steeply downhill, downhill – and health, and we can discuss our services in the field of health later today, and everyone can take the same picture. Maybe a short while to the area of pensions: Mr Minister, I find it shocking that you are really here and are talking about this arrangement, i.e. the abolition of the hacker's pension. I know, in a coalition you have to swallow bitter pills and sometimes you get overrun, but then I better not say anything about it – but also try to talk it beautifully, because I'm really unscrupulous, and I'm used to a lot now. [[Federal Minister Anschober: Then you did not understand!]] – Mr Minister, for you to explain once again, if you have not understood: They have managed to steal those who work 45 years in about 300 euros gross a month. [[Abg. Disoski: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] I should like to point out once again: The life expectancy of workers is six years lower than that of academics; and I should like to point out once again: The life expectancy of men is five years shorter than that of women. – As far as basic history is concerned, and we will discuss this week and in the future on this subject with certainty even more often. I was already aware that the ÖVP is heartless and has no understanding at all for social justice. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is not new in Austria, it will not surprise anyone, even the ÖVP itself knows. But with what brutality the Greens go into social affairs and really nudge that down, in this speed, brutality and heartlessness, and then even try to speak that up – that's really just more to shake the head. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tomaselli.]] But I believe that your electorate groups have also heard what has happened in a year of green government participation. If you look at the forums of various newspapers on the Internet, you can see the statement of green voters relatively clearly: They now generate for giving the Greens the voice, and I can't imagine them doing it again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski]] They will probably give us less, but probably more of the SPÖ in the future. But we also like to use green voices for ourselves. [[Abg. Fürlinger: The cut quantities will be...!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] - Yes, it will happen. [[Call the Greens: It certainly does not happen!]] You're gonna laugh, it's happening. [[Abg. Tomaselli: Well!]] Once again on social matters: I think it is obvious that we have a social crisis, caused or more or less indebted by this government. We have already tried several times to improve this social crisis for the people by expressing our support for a voucher for all the Austrians who are supposed to redeem them in the local economy. I shall now make this request once again. I might also expressly remind the ÖVP once again, especially some Tyrolean Members, that the Tyrolean Chamber of Commerce is calling for this again today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] Their President Walser, who is very reasonable and has now taken over a lot of liberal positions, has seen the consequences of this – buy power out, Amazon as the great winner, and the Tyroleans and the Austrian economy are suffering. He is also in favour of supporting the local economy, so please focus on your decision on the President Walser of the Chamber of Commerce, a deserved ÖVP official! That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35228	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35253	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary! Dear listeners! As part of this chapter on social and consumer protection, the issue of care is also discussed, and I should like to express my thanks again to those who work in the field of care, either voluntarily or professionally: in the field of health care or in the many care facilities, in the 24-hour care, as a family or in the mobile services – all of them are doing an incredibly valuable and expensive work at this time of the Corona crisis, and this should also be particularly thanked by Parliament. - Thank you. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] What is not true at all – what some have mentioned, for example, also Mr Ragger of the Blues – is the claim that the topic of care would have been somehow neglected. The last government, the turquoise-blue government, has had the topic of care at the latest since the abolition of the wealth rule also at the top of the priority list. The Minister of Social Affairs, Hartinger-Klein, has even submitted a score on behalf of the government. And this new government, when it took office in January this year, has also written and launched a comprehensive care reform at the top of the list of priorities. Then came this corona pandemic, which unfortunately has shifted a few things. But this reform process – and you know it very well – has started. I would like to expressly refer you to the Federal Minister responsible for Care, Mr Rudi. On the one hand, on the other hand, but also on our truly strong social politician August Wöginger, thank you very much for putting this issue so broad that many can form and speak with them. A care task force is set up, the working groups are set up and are already working on this reform process, and this should be particularly emphasized. Yeah, here's something in the river. However, if I look, ladies and gentlemen, for example, at the government programme of the NEOS and the Reds, at the red and red programme in Vienna, then in the table of contents I would like to say the following: Although care from the distribution of competence falls within the competence of the countries, Mr Loacker, in the overview there is no death word on the subject of care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] You can look for it with the magnifying glass in the government program, then you can find two pages with general places without any future agreements. The theme of care is thus neglected in the new so-called future program of the red-pink government or – can almost be said – the red-red government in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, all the considerations in the field of care must focus on the needs of people, and from practice we know that these needs are really very different. Many people, as long as they go, want to grow old, live and live in their own environment. There are various support, on the one hand caregivers as informal care, then, of course, the 24-hour care as a possibility, the mobile services and the like. And then there are other forms of support, such as day care facilities in the communities and, of course, stationary care. There are also these special needs in the field of care, as I would particularly like to mention the word dementia. By the way: This was a serious derailment of Mr Kickl yesterday when he misused the word dementia in a different context. The dementia strategy, the support of families dealing with those affected, requires very special attention and strengthening. The whole area of palliative and hospice care should also be mentioned. So there are very, very many aspects to be taken into account here. On the other hand, from my point of view, there are three major issues, on the one hand: How can we better support caring relatives? A carefree day is remembered that, for example, caring relatives can go on vacation and their relatives can experience a care by someone else during this time. In many areas, we also need to find new models. The second complex includes the care staff: How can we make this profession more attractive in the future? Where should we make changes in training? We need a comprehensive staff and training offensive. And last but not least, of course, the very big question of financing: How will this be financed in the future? What should be the level of own contributions? How high should the contributions of the municipalities, the countries, the federal government be? How can we better pool the financial flows here? Mr Kucher has said that this budget, which we are debating here today, is nothing of it. – We have said that in advance: In this budget, the status quo is set out with the necessary increases, for example in the care allowance, which has been increased by 4.5 percent to almost 3 billion euros, due to the demographic development and the valorization that we have decided here in Parliament. Then, of course, there are these flows of payments to the countries and communities. The the care fund and the replacement service for the abolished care regimen. This is all pictured in this budget, but of course some kind of status quo. What we need to work out next year is the new care concept for the whole of Austria. There we are in the middle of the process, and I am very good things that we will bring together a great throw at the end of the day, a reform that really needs to be oriented to the needs of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35337	Mr Eypeltauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35358	High house! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the first place, I would like to say something about care, because Mr Gödl wanted to give us a lecture on our Vienna coalition programme. Mr Gödl, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Calls You may be at the head of state Stelzer or the head of state Mikl- Leitner or read our answer from today: 82 percent of those who died in Upper Austria of Covid in the last one and a half months, 91 percent of these people died in Lower Austria. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] Perhaps you should call your country leaders and explain to them that they need to implement safety concepts for exactly those groups that are particularly susceptible to the corona virus. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I now come to my real topic: Consumer protection. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! The social, health, care and consumer protection sectors include a huge budget of 18 billion euros, which Minister Anschober is responsible for, a quarter of the total federal budget. The UG 21: Consumer protection – Mr Wurm has already done it a bit – accounts for 6.4 million euros, which is 0.04 percent of the concerns of the Minister, in normal times, in other words with an emergency, with a pension hole, without a health crisis, without the economic crisis, without the social and labour market crisis and without the unprecedented set of regulations from the Ministry of Health. 0.04 per cent of the Minister's attention in the normal state also corresponds to the sensibleness of the division of the department in this government as regards consumer protection, because financially – that is clear to all of us – Bartl gets the most from the Ministry of Finance. The Bartl gets the most from the Ministry of Justice. The Bartl takes the most from the Wirtschaftsbund and from its workbench, namely the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So what remains to be done by the Minister in the field of consumer protection is to defend the institutions which ensure that compliance with consumer protection rules in Austria is enforced. There are two of them in particular, and both of them have already been talked about today: This is, on the one hand, the VKI, the Association for Consumer Information, and on the other hand, the Federal Competition Authority. But even there, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP rides the green sleds according to all the rules of art. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Worm.]] As we are, we have seen in the last committee: As a result, the entire area of consumer authority cooperation is moving from a strong, non-profit-making and independent Federal Competition Authority. Federal Office for Eich and Surveying. – That can't be your serious, dear Greens and ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's the big "interest conflict" on it. . Dear Members of the Greens, how can you overlook this?- Oh, my God! Thus, while the ÖVP brings the institutions for fair competition and consumer protection under its party policy control, the VKI receives its pre-Christmas grant injections of grace and continues to be under the control of the Chamber of Workers. This is great for the Turks, of course, because the fears of independent institutions like the devil are the holy water. You keep the VKI in hand with financial assistance, the greens don't lose their face completely, because it gets 250 thousand more. No, ladies and gentlemen, in the budget itself, not much happens as far as consumer protection is concerned. The topics that really count, what really happens, are happening in the background, for example in the klandestins and in the really brutal depowering of the Federal Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35438	Mr Fürlinger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35459	High Bureau! Mr. Minister! Since some very humorous colleagues here have talked about taking people away or reducing pensions – they were the most humorous contributions – I quickly got the analysis of the pensions from Parliament's budget service. I would also like to thank the staff of this service, who are always preparing very profound information for the Members of the House. It reads that pensions are increased by up to EUR 1 000 and the compensatory allowance rates are increased by 3.5 percent. In the case of pensions between EUR 1 000 and EUR 1 400 per month, the increase rate will be reduced linearly from 3.5 per cent to 1.5 per cent, and the relevant amounts for a pension bonus will continue to be increased by a few per cent. The particularly humorous colleague Stöger turns out here and says that the ÖVP does not provide pensions, and then explains to us with this strange early retirement privilege proposal, which he introduced for electoral reasons shortly before the 2019 National Council election, and which he has also formulated a little sluggish – he has forgotten a few things that one wants to constantly correct now – that this is, so to speak, a robbery to his friends who get a high pension and are about the same age as he is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] He forgets, as did many of his friends and comrades sitting in here, that it was exactly they who, together with Mr Rudolf Hundstorfer, and us, introduced a bonus malus system that had its accuracy. That and nothing else we are now bringing back to life, ladies and gentlemen, that is the only thing we are doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP, as well as on Mr Ernst-Dziedzic and Mr Fischer.]] It is difficult if we have to correct your election sugar, which, by the way, you have not used anything. Dear colleague Worm – you smile anointedly in front of you – you have, of course, very convinced me with statistical figures. I'll give you one, too. With this discount-free early pension of 62, someone will pay around 270 000 euros if he has a permanent contribution year. He reaches the age of life that is supposed to give us according to statistics is – what I wish everyone – he takes out the double, namely, 540,000 euros. It may therefore be that this may not happen again sometime. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it can no longer be possible to retire at a time of our life expectancy at 62 years of age. I am just telling you as an example that a lawyer – you should not link his own destiny with it, so to speak, but Mr. Bürstmayr is unfortunately not there – my age is allowed to retire at 68 years of age – every year before means 5 percent, and the board board is clearly away from those high pensions that you have decided and decide here. Finally, I would like to say one thing – Mr Lercher told us yesterday that we should not take Rudi Hunttorfer in the mouth; nor do I understand to take him into the mouth, but I may quote him: He said when the ASVG-pension system was introduced, the average life expectancy was such that someone was in retirement for 7 years. – You know how many years you have now, so we can rightly think about how we can secure the pension system. In any case, this Federal Government is taking the right social measures, but also the right ones. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35522	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35544	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Budget is a policy cast in figures. – Mr Federal Minister, I miss your handwriting in this budget when it comes to social policy. I see only a template, a cover that is not fish and not meat. It is not tangible to me and to many others. This is also seen in the care reform – Mr Kucher mentioned it – which is simply not found in the budget. The care reform, which has been issued by you as a central topic, is not possible. I think you're gonna think about it because you're saying you don't want to make care reform out of the desk. I'll take it from you, just: Those who are now waiting for answers, the caregivers, the caregivers, but also the caregivers, cry out that they receive answers. The implementation you have promised for months is all the more important in times of the pandemic, and that is why I say: It's a danger in delay! If you look at the care payments, you've probably pictured the valorization, the demographic development, but you can't expect that to happen. Is it perhaps planned in the background to make a change in the law regarding the care allowance, in particular in view of the fact that the burden supplement is removed? What are you going to do when it comes to the staff and training campaign for the caregivers? - I don't see anything, I don't hear anything. Also on the topic of caregivers I find no answers from you to the question of what measures you want to take. Why don't you take the Burgenland model of employment, a service relationship? 170 are currently employed, and this project has also been marked by the EU Commission as a good project. I think there are many answers, and this area is screaming for answers. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] As far as poverty is concerned, you have mentioned a few figures, only nothing is recognizable to me. We have a child poverty with 400,000 children who are vulnerable to poverty. In pandemic times, parents are concerned about healthy nutrition, tooth health, which can no longer be made possible. They themselves have mentioned that the women are affected by poverty. I think that is why they are at risk of poverty, because there are very, very few disability and incapacity pensions in this area. What are we gonna do about it? – I find no answers in the budget. The third area concerns people with disabilities, the most socially vulnerable: I do not hear from the Inclusion Fund that there is also the possibility of harmonising the same performance across all federal borders. I also do not know that you are transforming employment therapy into a real service relationship. All these answers are missing, and I would really ask you to give timely answers in these difficult times of the pandemic. We are cooperative, and I offer you to continue this course in the future. If you are already taking the road tour all over Austria, you can also invite us and me to prevent social reduction in the future! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35595	Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35619	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! We are all parents, children of parents, uncles and aunts, or perhaps even grandparents. Through all this we have one thing in common: We are people who are responsible to the coming generations. This week we will decide on the budget for 2021, and my previous speaker has already said it: The budget is cast in figures policy. Our task as a politician is to create a legal framework in this time marked by the Corona pandemic, which guarantees maximum security. With the topic of pension insurance, we even go a bit further. Pension insurance is a generational contract, now workers pay partly the pensions of today's pensioners, as they have paid for the pensions of their parent generation. In return, however, everyone in employment must now be able to rely on the fact that their age insurance is also guaranteed by the next generation. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] In the coming years, a huge wave of pensions awaits us, and it comes to the fact that the Corona pandemic has brought us into a precarious situation. Dear SPÖ, the Rudi Hundstorfer, mentioned several times in the last days, was in my trade union Federal Chairman and then Social Minister, he was one of the most important social partners and thus one of the fathers of the original long-term insurance scheme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] This package was mostly good. Too bad that this great thought in SPÖ is no longer much left. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When I hear the statements of the FPÖ and their claims in pension matters, I wonder: What did you do when you were in the government? Did you deal with the facts and facts? - Well, it's not. I assume that otherwise you would not have distributed this reckless electoral sugar. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In increasing the minimum pensions of farmers we are subject to client policy, but in fact it is necessary to avoid poverty of old and not to build the prosperity of today on the shoulders of the children of tomorrow. Only a high number of employees and a secure labour market are the basis for a functioning pension system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are now, together with our government partner, creating an incentive system for workers, the early starter bonus. He supports those who have started to work after compulsory school, the apprentices, all those who have learned a profession and between 15 and 20 years of age. In the case of an occupational activity, the age of one is determined by the age of one or more of the employed persons. Unlike percentage supplements, with this bonus everyone and everyone gets the same, no matter what he or she has earned. Dear SPÖ! In practice, this means that an actual contribution is made to the closure of the income shears you so often mention, for: Whether lockers, office merchants, hairdressers or masons – all who work in young years get the same thing. With the budget for 2021 available to us today, we have achieved a good and balanced step into the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Work is worth it, and it's up to age.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35704	Next speaker: Mrs Rosa Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35725	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! One of the effective objectives of the budget approach for pension insurance is to increase the proportion of those women who receive their own pension on their own. And: The Minister will try to implement this objective with notices from the pension account. That's good and nice and right, politicians often like to say, it only has a hook: There is no annual pension notice from this pension account, but the insured person has to access it online. But that's what the least women and men do. I even discussed this week with a colleague here in the house – not from my group – who must have never looked into it. That is to say, this written communication was needed. I also asked the Committee: What strategic plans, measures, projects, campaigns – no press conferences – are otherwise made to achieve this goal? - None. The Minister answered my question: No plans have yet been made. I then suggested that on these pension account extracts, which often include several pages, one could explicitly draw out the times for which one has pension gaps in the insurance run, so that one may also be able to submit times – times of child rearing or others. The objective that 75 percent of women should receive an independent pension in 2030 is, Mr Minister, a very moderate objective: an increase of 3 per cent in 10 years – and that is why all political groups come here this week and say that women need higher pensions! In view of the fact that Austria has reached the fourth highest level in the EU with a pension gap of 40 percent, this is also a particularly important goal. Women have the right to be properly charged for retirement, and younger people also have the right to a fair pension system. When we consider that in 2060, 62 pensioners will be employed in 100 – that is twice as much as today – it becomes clear that this will be particularly exciting. Many people, whether younger or older, are also concerned about their evenings. Domestic care is mostly provided by women. This will also be exciting, since, as you know, in foreseeable time women will be up to 65. I have to work for a lifetime. It will be even more difficult to ensure home care, because nursing staff are hard to get. Every sixth man, every fifth woman, lacks help in basic activities, i.e. when shopping, when visiting a doctor, in the household. The construction of the so-called Communitynurses, the 500 parish nurses or sister-in-law – that was also a term mentioned yesterday – will be just a drop on the hot stone, as one realizes, considering that we have almost 100 districts or cities – that is, three for a rural district; this will also be exciting. The admission to a senior school is almost everywhere bound to the care level 4, i.e. for the transition periods up until then it takes short-term care beds, of which very few are available. We expect costs of EUR 3 000 and more that are to be voted in private. This does not give rise to the pension increase at Weitem, Minister. Apart from this, there is still no complete care concept available to date. Today I have heard of goals of finding new models, of “we will need” – so many speech bubbles, because it is not a budget approach for the care reform in the budget. Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz has once said that care reform is a chief concern, and I hope that does not mean that for people in our country, the care reform has come from the rain.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35773	Next speaker: Mr Josef Hechenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35795	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) But very special: Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Before I deal with my real subject, I would like to say a few words to Mr Stöger: In itself, it is okay to criticise government action from the point of view of the opposition, but in the same breath it is always reflectively the agriculture, the peasant families to mention, I consider absolutely not okay, for indecent or for a more backward policy, and in fact should strengthen us in the process of bringing society together and we should not fall into a column and separation as it is very much operated by the SPÖ. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view of the consumer, of course, health is our highest good, and health is a healthy diet. That is why I am very, very glad that the European Parliament has recently succeeded in strengthening the protection of designations for milk and milk products with the support of the votes of the ÖVP. I am not at all concerned with saying that soy or oat products are worse than milk, but the consumer should have the opportunity to look at and see which products he buys, which products he takes, because we know that milk production in Austria is based on very strict standards, for example 100 percent free of genetic engineering. Unfortunately, God has not succeeded in making the appropriate decision for meat, and I think that in this area we must inculcate or also work to ensure that the powerful consumer can really see whether he buys meat from animal production or a substitute product. So far, the multinationals have survived. In this context, I would like to mention positively our project, which we have started in Tyrol. Economy and agriculture together will mark in the future in the gastronomy under the project name I'll tell you where it comes from. In future, the consumer will have the opportunity and the opportunity to recognize: Where do food come from, how were they produced, or what do I take to myself? We have already tabled a motion for a resolution and we are working hard on it – our esteemed Minister, Mr. Anschober, is on the best way to do this – that we ensure the mandatory designation of origin in public kitchens, but also in food processing, and thus take another step, a milestone to make more transparency, more comprehensible in the field of food. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in this difficult time my appeal: If we stand together, we help together, we keep the hygiene measures together, then we will be able to get faster and easier through this very, very difficult time and fight the pandemic faster together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35855	Next speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35876	Madam President. Minister! High house! I think that if you heard the speeches of Klubobmann Wöginger today and yesterday, then you slowly hope that the Covid restrictions will stop, because these speeches fit into the beer tent, but, I think, there is very little lost here in the high house. If he's already moving at this level, I can only say one thing: I think the size of the punch scratch can be seen who really has something left for the people. He should look at Michael Ludwig's photo with his punch scratch – on the other hand, he looks a little ridiculous. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is quite exciting that we have been discussing this for an hour and a half now, I believe, here in this House and the Minister has not yet spoken. [[Abg. Gödl: Oh, he did!]] - Did he? [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] - Okay, sorry, I didn't take care of that for a while. [[Abg. Gödl: Did you sleep there?]] - Excuse me, match it. But I think something hasn't arrived with us yet. It may be that this has passed us, certainly not passed by us, but that the early starter bonus is discussed all the time: World class, great, insanity. When will this insidious invention see the light of the public? When will the House get some text in which we can read what is actually planned? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I know, I know Friday is still far away, but quite honestly, the show must go on is great, but a bit more fact-based discussion would do us quite well in this house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the subject that I'm actually standing out here: This is, of course, consumer protection. It has already been mentioned: 6.5 million euros for consumer protection, which is by far the smallest detail budget, but not the most important, because of course there are many important things inside. Now I am a bit divided, because on the one hand, I am trying to bring something forward in the field of consumer protection, quite respectable and recognized, but of course many things are also critical, which have already been addressed by my previous speakers. Positively, we have taken up the issue that we raised this spring, that there is a need for a donation for debt advice, that these 500 000 euros are available. Only by knowing why this topic is so important to me: There was a main requirement of a shipping trade of 128 euros, paid 680 euros and it is a residual charge of 552 euros open. We have the demand over 705 euros of a gym, now the total debt is 3 382 euros. We have a main requirement of a bank of EUR 4000, less payments, this sum is now EUR 23 853. We've just done a lot of support in this year, and these lessons will be due at some point. I think with these sums you can see that you don't get out so fast on your own, and you can see what happens if you don't respond. That is why debt advice is so essential, which is why reasonable financing of debt advice is so important, and it is good that there is this support. However, we will also need them next year, but find nothing in the budget. Therefore, from this point of view, my request to make additional money available next year. We have already decided on these 5 million for the VKI yesterday. This is a real step in the right direction. What it will still need is additional resources to invest. We know that the CCI is in urgent need of recovery in terms of investment. But now on the issues we are saying: That's not how it is! We have experienced that the section on consumer protection is dissolved in the Ministry, which certainly does not strengthen consumer protection in the department, but rather goes into the background. We have experienced that certain matters, instead of the Federal Competition Authority, a non-profit-making authority, are now, at one time, subject to the Federal Office for Eich- und Verwertungswesen. The chuzpe is really that at the end of the budget negotiations last Friday at lunch, after we discuss the entire budget for hours, ask what's going to happen – an amendment will come across several sides: It's going to be 1. In January 2021 an Office for Consumer Health was created. In the participation report, one finds a single small sentence, that there should be such an office in 2022. For next year, 6 million euros are budgeted in the Ages, but supposedly for new testing capacities and not for the Office. So there's something coming, in the law there are additional planning places inside, but there's nowhere to be found in the budget, and no one in this House tells us something about it. I mean, I'm sorry, how do we deal with each other? - With 1. A new office will be created by January and we need to find out about it somewhere in a two-liner. You're dealing with an opposition like that? - Apparently, yes. We must not be surprised, however, if the opposition does not take action by this government, and especially if we do not understand such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35962	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ries. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e35987	Madam President. Federal Minister! I don't want to talk about your bad starter bonus now, because it's a wrong start in the pension for me if I win 60 euros on one side, but on the other hand I lose 300 euros. What I want to talk about today is the VKI. What the German Foundation Warentest is, is the Austrian association for consumer information. The VKI has been responsible and independent for 60 years in the service of citizens. It examines competent and objective goods, services, insurance, contractual conditions and so on. He conducts consultations and also complains in the service of consumers if the individual consumer would not have grown in this case because he looks at an Armada of lawyers. In 2019 alone, there were 287 court proceedings with a success rate of over 90 percent. I think that speaks for itself. The further activity report 2019 is also quite impressive: Nearly 70,000 consultations, 1,500 interventions, 136 tests, over 100,000 times the trade journal “Consumer ” has been sold. Millions of visitors on the homepage also confirm that the VKI is on the right track. In the Corona crisis, the VKI was particularly highlighted by the travel hotline, and this without any budget overruns. The VKI's financing contests 75 percent from its own resources through the sale of its printing works and through consultations. I too have been a subscriber of the “consumer” for over ten years and am very satisfied that I could not get this performance anywhere else in Austria. The rest of the VKI's budget is spent by the Chamber of Labour and the ministry responsible. We are already at the starting point now, because this funding from the budget has to be re-adopted every year – every year, that is, there is no permanent financial security that could be used by the VKI in the long term, as it would be necessary to say. In a consumer society where we live today, the VKI, I think, is simply irreplaceable. I don't know any other institution in Austria that could take the place of the VKI. In reply to a written question, Mr. Anschober, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, assured that next year a VKI financing law would permanently provide financial security for the VKI. Federal Minister! We take you by the word, we will see with Argusaugen that it is not forgotten and does not fall into a Coronabudget hole. And one more request, Minister of State: If you have overcome your corona shock and the permanent press conferences are a little relaxed and stop, please try to apply more for consumer protection. The Austrian population deserved this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36027	I now have no more words on this subject. I therefore declare the deliberations on these issues terminated. [[11:18:13]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36050	We come to the next sub-division, namely sub-division 24: Health. First of all, Mrs Verena Nussbaum is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36075	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Never before in the Second Republic was our health system so demanded and claimed as since the Covid crisis at the beginning of this year. Now our strong, solidarity-funded health system is proving itself, through which all people in Austria receive high quality care. But this pandemic has torn a big hole into the health care budget, which now needs to be stuffed. Health costs money, and if we continue to have good services, we must act now. That is why I see it as negligent that the 2021 budget provides less money for health. For the coming year, 170 million euros are estimated to be less than this year. Due to the increase in unemployment, the Austrian health insurance fund lacks 200 million euros in contributions. In addition, the Damocles severity of the contributions amounting to EUR 1.8 billion depends on us, because if these companies were to go into insolvency, these contributions would also have to be written off. However, there is no money to compensate for these losses in health insurance. Therefore, we fear that the insured might experience deterioration in performance, reduction in performance or even further self-maintenance or increases in contribution. This should definitely be prevented. We, as SPÖ, are vehemently opposed to the fact that losses are financed at the expense of the insured or turned on their backs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second health crisis after the end of this pandemic due to the lack of financial resources that could result in under-supply and high health costs for patients is urgently to be prevented. Now we need the billions promised by German Chancellors to compensate for the losses by pooling the health insurance funds. As we know today, however, this has never occurred, but was also only a PR-gag of the ÖVP again. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36225	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36252	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Every day, the Murmeltier greets: We are discussing this very issue, namely the question of financing, both as regards the ÖGK and the hospitals in the countries, for a few weeks or even months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] And for weeks and months, social democracy has obviously simply ignored the commitments already made or the process we are currently in. First of all, on the subject of hospitals: Ladies and gentlemen will hopefully know that there is an automatic approach which is good if the state is more This is because, by means of this automation, the financial compensation between the federal government and countries automatically also has more resources to pay to the hospitals. In a crisis, this automation is less successful because, if there is less revenue, it can also be less money. But now I come to the point: If I have it right now, the Federal Minister has clearly expressed his position on this matter in the last Health Committee, and he has also said quite clearly and clearly – just as in the case of EGC funding – that the federal government will be in the right position here, and that it is necessary to negotiate these funds between the federal, state and local authorities, which are also in play there. Let us, however, come to the question of our health care in general: I think I'm known to be a defender of robust health care. Robust health care means: decent equipment for beds, decent local care for people, for example through primary care units, by established doctors. This also includes a modern system that focuses on digitization and shows modernity. On this point, I am very close to the colleagues of the NEOS, who constantly and constantly criticize that we are not yet in the field of health care in the 21st century. Arrived in the 20th century that the fax machine is still much too often rattered and much too rarely used the Internet or digitization. We will have to set the same priorities next year. In my opinion, the funds for this are shown in the budget, and we will have to implement it. In the same way, however, we must also consider why, for example, the funds made available for primary supply units, for local health facilities by countries, by municipalities, have not yet been collected by municipalities. There's still a little bit of a boost here. Last but not least, on the somewhat debilitating question of personnel: What always bothers me a little personally is: We're always talking about a alleged medical shortage, and we're always talking about that we're supposed to have a lot too few people in education. On the other hand, it must be noted that, for example, the training places for general physicians at hospitals are only 30 percent filled. Here are definitely the countries in debt. Countries must be careful to fill precisely these already existing training places, and they must ensure that we have more people in medical education. In conclusion: However, we do not only have doctors in this country, we have very, very much non-medical staff – we have top-trained nurses, midwives et cetera. These people are appreciated, these people are more at the centre of our health care. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There we should take a model for Scandinavia, see how they handle it there. I think that's also the mission for the coming year. These are things that don't cost much money now, but at the end of the day the doctors can also relieve and improve our entire health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36316	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36342	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! We are in the budget debate on health, breakdown 24. At first glance, the figures in this detailed budget do not look so bad at all: Nearly 1.8 billion euros of expenditure, almost 600 million euros more than last year, are budgeted for health, and the 425 million euros for financing and payments in relation to the measures to the Epidemic Act are a large and relevant item that makes a certain focus on addressing the current crisis. Also 150 million euros as a covid increase for test measures, protective equipment and the like, which the federal government has acquired and refinanced, are quite a step in the right direction and can be found in the current budget. In addition, it will provide EUR 120 million for the acquisition of a Covid-19 vaccine, plus the EUR 80 million already planned in the current budget, EUR 8.6 million for an Influenzaimpfprogramm 2021 and EUR 6 million for the Ages that really did great in this crisis. But let me interpret these numbers a little! Let us start with the target grant for the countries: You know that, at the beginning of this crisis, there was a major problem of competence and cost-taking, and that a great many things in the resolution, especially in the health authorities of the countries, to the districts, have been very delayed and delayed, because this funding was not clarified. Tests were not carried out as quickly as it would have been necessary, staff for contact tracking was not set up because no extra money was provided for it. It was only when the commitment of the federal government to take over costs was made, which I believe was very late, that it was also invested in these areas. Even now, from my point of view, it is still not in the order of scale that we would need to prepare and deal with the crisis for the next year. I am still lacking courageous and committed forward-looking planning in the budget area, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I also find it sad if you buy over 200 million euros of vaccine – I just want to remind you: That's more than 10 percent of the total annual budget of the Ministry of Health! – but at the same time does not have the courage to establish a verifiable target for these vaccination programmes. If one spends more than 200 million euros on vaccinations, one should also have a clearly defined objective, which can be verified afterwards and on which one must be measured. You, Mr Minister, have formulated your statements on this and your personal goals often enough. I cannot explain why this is not reflected in the draft budget. Last but not least for Ages financing: The 6 million euros for the Ages are a very, very important contribution so that this important authority, this important institution in Austria, actually works smoothly. It has done us a very, very great service in the crisis. However, the prospect of long-term financing remains missing. I know it's a lot in preparation, but of preparations and announcements this authority has nothing – it needs planning security. This planning security is needed in order to build up additional capacity, especially in the personnel sector, and this planning security is with the Current budget is simple and not given decisively. So we continue to leave this important federal institution uncertain as to how much money it actually gets in the future. This could have been done better, Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to make another overall relation to the health budget, because the figures I have just mentioned may sound very impressive to the individual, but in reality they show how little de facto the entire health sector in Austria is budgetary. The total annual budget does not even correspond to 1.9 percent of federal expenditure – not even 1.9 percent. Or to formulate it differently: Only the agreed compensation for the closures during the first three weeks of Lockdown light from the beginning of November to today causes costs of more than double what we have available for our entire annual health budget. We are talking about costs of 2 to 3 billion euros for compensation for loss of sales only through the Lockdown light compared to 1.8 billion euros we have in the health sector. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a prioritization that I cannot understand. I thought we were in the biggest health crisis since the Second World War – this is not shown in the budget. The Federal Government is obviously not willing to provide health care directly financially. There is little money spent on health, and there are twenty billion spent in order to eliminate the damage caused by the measures of the Federal Government. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the wrong way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36400	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36425	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, you hear and see us! It has already been said a lot, and I agree with what Mr Nussbaum meant at the outset: how valuable our health system is. Yes, I fully agree. Especially in times like this one, it is very impressive to demonstrate how much people living in Austria can rely on this health system. Unlike many others, I don't like the crown when I thank the people who put this health system on solid legs. These are the people in the hospitals, in the medical ordinations, in the pharmacies, in the care – whether stationary or mobile – in the rescue organizations and in the laboratories. If we express our appreciation to them, then I find nothing objectionable, but that is a duty that we have to fulfil – and that is what we are happy to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many have probably read the story about intensive care in the early days of the “Kurier” – which means for people who are currently working on intensive care stations. The creation of protective equipment alone, working there under difficult conditions conveys a very impressive image. It is also the talk – because it was often asked why you did not provide in summer – that this training takes a year and a half and a half, and that is not about the summer. However, it will be certain that we will do a lot in this area, including in the care sector, and in addition to doctors. Example Surgeons – to stimulate the recovery of intensive medical training in order to be better equipped. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I can take care of the concern that the Austrian health insurance fund will fall into the abyss and that there will be performance reductions and increases in contributions. There are, of course, discussions with the Federal Minister for Health and with the Minister for Finance. This will not come – quite the contrary – because of course we share the challenges faced by the Austrian Health Fund, the countries and the municipalities. It is also about being prepared for the future. We will surely strengthen this solidarity system instead of weakening it, even in times of the Covid crisis. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We all know that this time for all people living in Austria – and not only here, but also in Europe and internationally – is a terrible burden. It's about minimizing contacts, we're wearing masks, we're holding back, we're washing our hands more often than usual – and that's good, because together we can do it. It is also a mental burden: for children, for people my age, for older people. There are many at this time who have also volunteered with psychologists and psychotherapists on the phone to provide valuable help and continue to do so – that is also not high enough to appreciate. We are also strengthening this area by providing more cash-financed treatment sites in psychotherapy. This is part of the plan, which the Federal Minister of the Interior will thank God, together with us and all stakeholders, make out of these professions. There was a first big round of talks, and everyone agrees that there is still a lot to do about mental health. I am pleased if we can carry out this plan together and ensure that not only physical health, but also mental health in Austria has enormous importance. Thank you. Stay healthy, keep your distance! Together we can do this!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36491	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36512	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The audiences will probably think that if the health division is now in place – and the speech by Colleague Schwarz would suggest it – it is about the hospitals. Unfortunately, it is necessary to explain to taxpayers: No, the hospitals are almost nothing to the covenant, they are essentially in the hands of the countries. What we are discussing here is also a small part of the whole health system – which does not mean that nothing can be done. The Federal Minister has been in top positions in politics for 30 years and knows how the business works. Not all the pans that have happened have been able to gain this impression as it corresponds to the facts. What is the balance of this Covid crisis that has called for quick action? – We still have the patient data in the settled area and those in the hospital area largely separated and not merged. This has, for example, resulted in Charité Berlin asking the Ministry of Health if one could not work together for research purposes, because the Austrians have the patient’s drug data via e-medicine and look at them. certain medications may have affected the course of covid disease. What made the disease milder, what more serious? Charité Berlin has not received an answer from the Ministry of Health. Then I asked a parliamentary question whether, when and how, it was answered. We had two months to answer my parliamentary question, and the Ministry did not answer even in these two months the question of Charité Berlin. This is the seriousness of this crisis. We have experienced – roughly estimated – 120 press conferences. If one had spent the time that was being fried with it working behind the scenes, then there would have been more inside for the citizens. If one had looked at these patient data, which are there, it would not have been like a pallawach around the risk groups, as we have experienced. Then it would be much better to find out who the risk groups are. Today we know: The risk groups are mainly at home in the old-age and care homes. The problem is: We know, but nothing happens, because the financial flows in the health care sector are largely out of control. In other words, annual payments will be made to the countries, because they were always the same and once they have been agreed in snow, but they are not bound by the achievement of target or quality criteria. This is, of course, highly inefficient. The Minister would have control lever: In the field of prevention, there are competences at home at the federal level. This is not only about precautionary investigations and their financing, but also about the taxation of structured and integrated care, which is much announced and many papers are found, but not comprehensive implementations. Then there would be the control lever of Österreich GmbH, which makes the health structure planning, but we even have to observe a slight budget reduction at GÖG. The regional structural plans for the federal states could have been influenced as well. Then there is the Federal Health Agency, which controls hospital financing with the State Health Fund. There it was necessary to control these rivers of financial resources with measurable criteria. Unfortunately, this has not happened either – everything without targets, without control. But I'm sure: At the next press conference, this will be explained again with beautiful words.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36558	The Federal Minister has now spoken. - Please, Minister Anschober.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36579	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It fits well if I follow colleagues Loacker. Generally formulated: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing the health budget in these days of the most severe crisis in the health systems of Europe, the most serious pandemic for 100 years, it is, I believe, the right time to address the situation – a situation which is very, very, very serious, very serious, with dramatic figures, as we have had in recent weeks and which we unfortunately continue to have – I will then address it – and with a very, very difficult phase at the intensive medical care stations. We now have 682 patients in intensive medicine in Austria with severe covid diseases that need to be cared for there. This is a further increase of 24. That is to say, the situation becomes more serious and serious and exactly what we have been warning about for weeks, namely that this strong increase in the number of new infections leads to a massive problem in the intensive medical departments, becomes reality step by step. I telephone – this is not an exaggeration – every day with several of these doctors and nurses. On the one hand, we get the reporting, like the utilization situation and also the use of the caregivers and doctors, how many diseases we have in the area and how large the resources are still, every day on the table in the early days, on the other hand, it is much, much more informative if you talk directly with individual department boards, for example, with professors who work in the field, with the people who do the work on the ground and do them great. It is a very special stress situation that the physicians and nurses currently have. Many, many, are afraid that in a few weeks, they might get into the situation that triagens are needed in the hospitals. Making this decision is pretty much the worst thing that can happen to a physician, a physician, and all of us – especially those affected on the ground – are doing everything together to ensure that this situation does not become reality and that there are no triage situations in the Austrian hospitals. To do this, all solidarity work together in the hospitals. It's great how it's done here. We have now again flexibilization possibilities, which can be created in addition to resources, keyword: Use the awakening rooms for intensive medical care and much more, clarified, so that everyone is in a legal security when they go to the borders. I believe that all of us should send together a very large, clear thanks for their commitment to these physicians and these caregivers. [[General condolences.]] I also say quite openly to you: What I hear again and again is first of all that the people involved in our health system who have this activity are happy – even if it hurts us all, even if it is for all victims, even if it means for all of us to abandon what we experience in these 20 days, today is the second day – that there is thus a prospect that their situation is still relaxed in good time. That is why I ask all those who live in this beautiful country to contribute with the consistent implementation of the reduction of contact, because only in this way can we actually reduce the number of new infections. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What the interested people also tell me is that no one understands if we criticize each other in such an acute crisis, partly insult each other and if party hack prevails. I believe that this is really the day, the situation, the situation, these are the weeks in which we stand together, and have to do everything we can to get through this serious crisis together. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I therefore come to the answer to some questions and to the opinion on a number of points which, of course, have to do with this crisis and which you, ladies and gentlemen, have addressed here: One was the financing of our health system. It fits very well, very well to what we said before, because we in Austria can be really proud that we have a strong health system, and we benefit from it now incredibly. We have a completely different situation when you look at the intensive bed capacity and compare it with our neighbouring countries, because we are better prepared for it. I thank all those who have made these wise decisions in recent years and decades. These were not my decisions, but we benefit today from a very strong, very dedicated health system, and I very much hope that in the next few years there will be no longer any debate in the policy that we need to reduce the number of beds we need to save in the health system. Our consequence must be that we continue to strengthen this system. In this way, the question of financing: The question of the financing of the health insurance fund and the financing of hospitals in Austria was raised – both, of course, Covid-condition, keyword: Where do we have the main revenue in this system? – It is the workers, and the more the difficulties in the field of employment, the greater the gap. That's a completely logical story. We have therefore had very good discussions with the health insurance fund for weeks, and I am very confident that in these discussions we will have a good outcome, ensuring that the political commitments that we have made and for which I am right now – there will be no loss of quality, no deterioration of care and no additional self-maintenance, and therefore no cost increase for patients – will be maintained consistently and up to 100 percent. That is what we want to achieve, and I am very confident, as has been said, on the basis of the previous discussions, that we will do well. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Second point: The question of the financing of hospitals is equally important. I know that some who started the alarm four weeks ago are now a little calmer in this discussion because the facts are now clear. We have a 15a agreement on the financing of hospitals. This means that payments from both municipalities and the Länder as well as the Federal Government are linked to a certain key to the tax revenue, and if, unfortunately, the tax revenue as in these times is falling significantly, we have an open financing agency both in the Federal and in the field of the countries. That is why the discussions are now starting in order to reach a reasonable common solution. We will all have to help together, and we will not have to make savings in hospitals with a 100% security, but we will provide them together – countries, federal and local authorities – with what our great health system needs in order to be fit and to meet the requirements of the coming weeks, months and years. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It is important to me in this context that it is not only a matter of ensuring quality, but also of improving quality, especially in those areas where we still have gaps – and indeed, we have gaps in this great health system – that we continue to improve gradually. An example is the psychosocial situation in Austria. It is simply not acceptable that in some areas waiting periods of half a year or more exist. Imagine that this would be the case in physical diseases! Everyone would rightfully say: I can't! And we want to improve this step by step. In addition, the preliminary work has been very extensive – by the way, also with the health insurance fund, where we work very, very well with the representatives. There will be significant improvements in the supply situation. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Third point is the current Covid situation. How does she develop? – I have the latest information for you, ladies and gentlemen: Today, we have a new number of infections that are not pleasing. It is a stabilisation, But it remains at a dramatically high level. In the last 24 hours, we have had 7,091 new infections that have been registered. I always say the weekly comparison; since the development is different on the basis of the registration structures in the system, this is the best comparison. Last Wednesday it was 7,514, that is, but clearly more. That means stabilisation is taking place, but we are not yet at the necessary turnaround, which we need for a drastic reduction. The situation is that we have to mention 6 251 new genes at the same time today. This is the current data situation, for your information. By the way, we now have the emergency situation in intensive care stations across Europe. That is not a comfort for us – quite the contrary. I make a lot of calls with the health ministers in other countries. Switzerland is now in the field of intensive care at the limits of its capacities. We have the same situation in the Czech Republic, France, Spain, Italy – health systems are everywhere at their borders. This is currently a challenge in every country. We also have calls from other countries, whether we can help and support, but at present the situation across Europe is extremely tense. It is a really difficult situation, which we are currently facing in the area of our health systems in Europe; I hope I can say soon. Our forecast is that we will be in the most difficult phase in the field of intensive medical care in the coming week. There is a difference between the time of re-infection and the delivery and also in statistical consideration in the field of intensive care medicine – a brake effect so to speak – of about ten days. Therefore, it can be expected that the high figures will be made clear again next week. The forecast institutions that we have commissioned assume that if we can gradually reduce the figures at present, we will achieve a relaxation in intensive medical care at the beginning of December. I hope that by then all of us, especially the people in the hospitals, are still doing well. The last two points from my side: We are currently working very, very intensively on the question of how it is after 6. December, after which Lockdown can continue. We have a comprehensive programme in preparation for this. Among other things, it will be the strengthening and acceleration of contact person management as the first top priority, it will also be additional protection measures for seniors – and I am therefore not referring to the area of old and care homes as a priority, but also to people who do not live in old and old care homes, but are still part of this so-called risk group. I don't like the word at all; no human being is a risk, so I call it the group most vulnerable. These are people over 70, we are currently developing additional protection measures for them. It will also be more testing, yes. We are already expanding the testing possibilities and the capacities massively. There are currently between 30 000 and 40 000 tests every day. No one could have dreamed of this number a few months ago. 30 000 to 40 000 tests per day are currently included in the statistics, and it is becoming much more evident that we have integrated the established doctors and now also the pharmacists into the testing. This should once again allow for strong dissemination and improvement, simplification of access to testing for all. That is, I assume that these figures will rise very quickly to 40 000 to 50 000 tests per day in Austria. The second is: We look at screening options. At the end of the lockdown, how can we personally meet and touch certain target groups, which have very frequent customer contacts, better integrate them into the test programs? That is an essential point. We also look at where and especially when and in what form mass testing makes sense. We work together with the Federal Chancellor on appropriate concepts and are now also very, very far. Last point: Our hope perspective, the vaccination. What's up? – I remember saying two months ago that it could be that far in the first quarter – and I even dared to call it a month, because the dream would be that in January we will be able to bring the first doses of vaccination to Austria. At that time, I saw that a few heads were shaken and that it was not believed so properly. If you read the international agency reports of the last days, you can see: This can really be very, very soon realistic. France reported yesterday that the vaccination programme was launched from January and prepared for it; the same is reported in Great Britain, Germany is also in the same preparation. I can tell you: We are very, very good on the road to prepare it professionally – with the aim of motivating as many Austrians as possible to protect themselves by participating in the vaccination programmes, which are of course voluntary and remain voluntary. We have achieved very, very good negotiations with the European Union and through the European Union with the producers of vaccines. This is proof of how Europe works, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Just imagine that we had negotiated this resource struggle – and that is really it – as a small Austria alone! We are much stronger together, and this is evident in a crisis situation. There has also rightly been criticism of the role of Europe in the crisis, but this is really a great testimony to how Europe as a whole strengthens us by having these negotiations together and having achieved three major conclusions, that is, that we will have enough vaccine. The vaccination strategy is ready. We finished her last night. The logistics strategy is being finalized. That means we are very, very well positioned. We know who will receive a vaccination offer, and we expect to be able and allowed to prepare for a start in January. – Thank you, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36727	Next speaker: Mrs Faika El-Nagashi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36749	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! For a long time, I have been warning, like many others, of the connection between pandemics and mass animal husbandry. [[Call the FPÖ:Ah! Bats were there!]] As long as we keep animals in such a narrow space, pandemics will be a constant threat. These are loud warning locks to end conventional livestock farming as soon as possible and to turn it into a sustainable form of agriculture: small, regional and biological. Many people have hoped that the time has now come for the paradigm change, that we will now go a new way in agriculture, to switch to self-sufficiency with food such as vegetables, of which 40 percent are currently imported from other countries, while we produce meat and milk in abundance – surpluses we export across the globe. Many people have hoped that mass animal husbandry will end now or that we will at least discuss it. The risk for the next pandemic from animal farms is too high, the suffering of millions of animals in this system is too cruel. The price of our health due to antibiotic resistance, which arises because we will somehow keep the animals alive in the factories with our medications until they reach their slaughter weight, is also too high. Zoonoses such as Covid-19, but also Ebola or the bird flu are mostly transmitted to humans by eating meat from animals. The outbreak of a mutated form of coronavirus in a Danish fur farm, however, opens another dramatic chapter of the pandemic. The fact that the Danish pathogen was able to spread in mere contact between the marten and the human being is worrying. All 15 million nerves in Denmark are to be killed to stop the spread of the virus. I am also affected by the images from the mink farms beyond the health hazard aspect. In Austria, for ethical reasons 15 years ago, we banned the attitude of animals for fur extraction. The exit from fur production must become the goal of the whole European Union, and I am pleased that the Minister of Health has also promised his support in this matter and thank me for this support, because we only create the big changes together. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] One of these changes must be the end of European fur production. Animal torture, pandemic risk – this industry has no place in a modern Europe. The Green Group in the European Parliament has long opposed this practice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, far too little has happened in the last three-quarters of the year in order to stop creating pandemics like the current ones in the future. It is particularly disappointing to see that at the European Union level there is no excuse for an agricultural turnaround. Two weeks ago, a vote was taken on the future CAP strategy, i.e. on what form of agriculture in Europe should be supported by subsidies in the future. Instead of giving this support to those farms that are based on the European Green Deal, conservatives, social democrats, liberals and the right parties for maintaining an agricultural support system that is playing with the future of our world. More and more people are disappointed by this ignorance and responsibilitylessness. We have expected a wide-ranging discourse, which strengthens us and provides us with innovative Ideas will lead from this crisis and can pave the way for sustainable, plant-based agriculture, a reasonable and responsible agriculture that saves billions of animals from the suffering of mass animal husbandry, which protects us from pandemics and deals with our drinking water resources that protect the climate and nature. tonnes of meat landed in the waste in the first lockdown, tons of meat will also be landed in the waste in the second lockdown. That's not the way it should go. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Smolle.]] Society has long been ready for a turn. There is evidence from science, there is support from NGOs. I shall speak here for so long and so often until we take this debate seriously. We have a responsibility to the people who live in this country, but also to all our fellow human beings, whose livelihoods are destroyed by our way of life. Of course, we also have a responsibility to the animals that pay for our lifestyle with their lives. It doesn't have to go that way. Every day, we have the opportunity to make a different decision at European and national level. Take this step with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36803	Next speaker: Mr Philip Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36828	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! One would not believe that today, in the biggest health crisis for 100 years, we are discussing a budget for health where hundreds of millions of euros have been forgotten, although everyone is saying how important the health is. You have to say, positively: Let us all be grateful that in recent years the EIA has not enforced itself and that the Economic Chamber has not enforced itself, which said: Let's privatize and remove beds! We must also be grateful today for having a strong health system, but at a time when we are really saying that we should now take money into our hands and make the health system better, we should decide today a budget that has forgotten hundreds of millions! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Blümel has already managed to forget six zeros inadvertently. We would like to assume that Mr Blümel learns from it and then carefully see if he has not forgotten anything again this time, and then in the middle of the major health crisis he has forgotten such little things as hundreds of millions of euros for hospital financing. You have to imagine that the insurance of hospitals in Austria is not covered in the budget. [[Call the Greens: A fool!]] Hundreds of millions of euros are missing from the Austrian Health Fund. When we came up with hundreds of millions of euros missing, it said: Yes, in the middle of the crisis, there are all the time to hold a philosopher with Mr Blümel, you can calculate and take quite a lot of time to get the necessary funding for the hospitals and for the Austrian health insurance fund sometime. I asked the Minister for Health in the Committee: Can a financier in a hospital rely on words, promises from a politician, or does he have to make a budget based on figures, data and facts? I do not know how the colleagues from the ÖVP are responsible for managing the company, but to build a budget in a hospital on sand and to say that Mr Blümel has said that we are already going to find a solution – this is not how it works in practice. What would that mean? – If the funding of hospitals is not covered by the budget, this would mean: Reduced performance, fewer beds. We're really talking about health care. Federal Minister! I think it's good that you're getting up there now and getting more active and fighting. That's good for me. It would have been important if you had finally actively also said to Mr Blümel that he should ensure health funding. I'd expect that to happen with one another. We cannot decide a budget for 2021 in which the entire financing of the Austrian health insurance fund and the hospitals in Austria is not covered. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl:...! What you're talking about!]] I'm really asking: Let's fix this together! This is not just a question of security. Actually, we should take more money into our hands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gödl.]] What about mental health? For example, what about digitization? We'll see that there's still a note-keeping business. We have heard, Minister of State, that faxes are sent across Austria. It can't be that in the middle of the crisis these things don't get better. That would be the health resort's task. Mr. Federal Minister, you really have us at your side. I know how hard you've got it. The hacking of the ÖVP and Sebastian Kurcin in your direction we get all medial with, this race if he absolutely wants to announce the mass tests in the “press hour” on Sunday. [[Abg. Gödl: A fairy tale hour just now!]] We get all these jealousys from Sebastian Kurzmit. You really would have us, I think, all-party as a partner when it comes to improving the health system. I ask you again: Let's fix this together! I see here the budget speaker of the ÖVP, Gabriel Obernosterer. Maybe you can get Gernot Blümel under your arms again. Last time he forgot six zeros, this time all hospitals in Austria. Unfortunately, it is getting worse and worse with Mr Blümel.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36915	Next speaker: Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36936	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Health budget in the Federal Budget, increasing from 1.2 billion euros to 1.8 billion euros, about 50 percent increase – this is very, very important, especially at this time, but we do not forget one thing: This is only a part of the health financing in Austria. We spend 11.2 percent of GDP on health in Austria. More than three quarters of them come from the public hand, and that's good. Within the federal budget, the health budget is a part of the heading “Work, Social Affairs, Health and Family”, which in turn accounts for almost 48 percent of federal expenditure. There is a lot of work to do to support health and to ensure the health of people in our country. In the health budget, of course, increases are largely due to the Covid-Pandemy – that has already been mentioned –: Vaccines, protective equipment, upgrading of hotline 1450. But there are also approaches that go beyond the pandemic. I am also very happy and grateful for that. I am thinking of the beginning of the construction of a system of Communitynurses, the further Expansion of primary supply centres or also digitalisation, the introduction of the e-mppass or the integration of radiological images in Elga. There's a lot going on, and this is also happening in the face of this truly global pandemic. Over the summer, some have hoped it would be over with the pandemic. This would not have been so bad, it would not have led to some evading any reference to caution and care as panic machinations that largely rejected health regulations or made it ridiculous to masks. In the meantime, we know: The situation is serious – we know it from the intensive stations – it is really dramatic. Those who still ignore this situation do not oppose the government, but rather the reality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The situation is really serious. We have to stick together. There are always two very wild arguments. One thing is: People don't die of Covid-19 at all. The other thing is: It only hits the old and the sick anyway. There are obductive series: Around 90 percent of these poor people died of Covid-19. The second concerns the elderly and the sick: First of all, it is not just this group of people, second, the concept of predisease is very broad – you already have a blood pressure in this group – and thirdly, what is quite, very important, in our appreciation also to live the old and sick or especially the old and sick a right and a right to our support. I hope we all see this like this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are fighting for human life and its preservation, for quality of life, for jobs, for social cohesion, for the protection of businesses. Let us stick together, all of this is in good hands in the Federal Government and with our Minister! Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e36997	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37018	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! At the beginning, I would also like to thank our group for the really great performance of the health care system. You know our line, we have always said that the critical infrastructure of health care and risk patients are to be protected, and this is good with our health care. The second statement by you, Mr. Minister, was today: We must avoid becoming a social crisis in the health crisis. - I'll give you the right, Minister. That's where we have to avoid mistakes, and the government has plenty of air up there, including you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] I'll give you two examples today. First example Epidemic Law: The people in Austria, the entrepreneurs, the employees must be able to rely on existing laws. What did you do? – They have removed the epidemic laws parliamentaryly against our votes, although the Epidemic Act has assured entrepreneurs that they will replace the earnings incurred by the administrative closures. So, it is now incontrovertible that at least for the period of closure by regulation by the district chief teams until the outbreak of the epidemic law by the Covid-19 laws – in about 16 days – the right to replacement in the case of a person who is a resident of a Member State or a Member State of a Member This has been fixed for months: Business closures in mid-March, and the decree of you, Minister, how to calculate earnings, is on 21 March. In July, this calculation was published at the beginning of August. In the meantime, six, seven months have passed into the country, and it has still not been compensated. Entrepreneurs are abandoned. That is why I am making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the near future, a second important question to you, Mr Minister: Have over Pulse 4 She told – I quote –: The goal is that this lockdown will last until we have the vaccine. - Quote. Now you have informed us today that the vaccine will be present at the beginning of January. What does this mean for the companies? What does this mean for the tourism industry? What does that mean to trade? What does this mean for employees? What does this mean for many Austrians who are directly and indirectly affected by it? We all assume that the businesses can open in mid-December. If you already do not inform the opposition and us, please inform the population, the entrepreneurs, the workers concerned, whether the companies are actually closed until mid-January, as you have indirectly announced about Pulse 4! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37103	Mr Hauser, stay At the speaker's desk, please! They have not read the first paragraph of the motion for a resolution, or only a very short part of it. You have to read it again, then it can be considered as properly applied.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37124	‘This economic repair package shall ensure the implementation of the following measures, with the aim of taking over a general economic liability of the State, both for entrepreneurs and employees.’ [[12:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37224	Thanks a lot. With this addition, this motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37248	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home! The pandemic strengthens the need for further action in the psychosocial field. I am very glad that in the budget hearing there has been a very clear announcement to expand psychotherapy and psychosocial work – thank you, Mr. Federal Minister, thanks also to our health spokesperson Gaby Schwarz and all those who support it! This is a very important area for me. I have worked as a psychotherapist for many years with heavily traumatized people, including in youth aid, with eating disorders. I know that this is a very important aspect, especially in family work, but also in senior work, as the age depression is strongly on the rise – thank you very much! I hope that we will work together to create good solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let us also, ladies and gentlemen, force digital possibilities! There are many reactions to this pandemic in the digital sector. I was always very skeptical myself. But now we could also work in psychotherapy by telephone and digital. Of course, this is not always the ideal case, but there are many great projects that are very often never becoming regular projects by pilot projects. I just call it because it's just lunchtime, the digital lunch table where you eat together. This is often a big topic for older people who are very alone. We have initiated a great project in Klagenfurt, where the technical college is involved, the auxiliary body was allowed to join in the project, namely Smart Vitality, in which various technical components support seniors in everyday life. I'll kiss you a little. This is an important measure in terms of quality of life, but also health care, in which one works with technology packages such as smartwatch, tablet, sensors and measuring instruments for vital parameters. They were very, very well accepted. This is an important prophylactic work, but also a discharge of the health system if someone does not fall if someone does not unite and so on. I mention another initiative: the establishment of digital ambulances, hospital hospitals, for example the Vincenz Group here in Vienna. It is also not true that this is a substitute for a medical examination, but there are many valuable ways of after-treatment, the care of chronically ill people, the advice, for example, in nutrition therapy and so on. We continue to develop such framework conditions, we try to relieve the health system and also its care! Let us, however, ladies and gentlemen, always focus on people. Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37300	Next speaker: Mrs Fiona Vierde. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37321	Madam President. High house! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! And every year, the Murmeltier greets: Budget chapter 24, health, a purely budget throughput to the federal states. In fact, one would have to rename this budget chapter, for example in UG 24 extra-financial compensation or UG 24 basket money for the state princes. Unfortunately, this budget chapter is imaginative and aimless. In 2021, only EUR 600 million were added without documentation rules and targets. In particular, I believe that although 120 million euros are intended for Covid vaccinations, even since client policy is being pursued. For example, pharmacists are still not allowed to vaccination. Unfortunately, Mr Anschober's Minister of Health is still inconclusive in this regard: While he was still considering vaccination in the pharmacy before the summer, he saw after the summer by vaccination in the pharmacy the patient's safety was questioned. Mr. Minister, I ask you again: How do you quickly want to achieve a high rate of vaccination of the people in Austria without breaking up the vaccination monopoly? You can also take the Rainjet or the West Railway from Linz to Vienna and not with the regional train, so please also have the pharmacists vaccinated to reach the goal of the vaccination faster – now at the flu and later at Corona! [[Rejoicing and Interlude Remark by Federal Minister Anschober]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Not important to you also seems to be the structured and integrated supply chronic sick. For years, we have called for federal funds to be linked, among other things, to structured care – especially for diabetics, there is massive need for action, but also many other chronically ill, for example MS patients, people with depression, people with various chronic joint inflammations and much more, finally wish for adequate care. For years, we have also called for a greater involvement of qualified care in health care. This requires, at last, a billing catalogue of care with social security, but as long as this is not the case, that parts of the health budget are no longer available to the countries. but to social security, this maintenance billing catalogue will never come. Summary: This budget has no plan and no passion – no plan and no passion for vaccination in alternative places of medical practice, such as in the pharmacy, no plan and no passion in promoting the structured care of chronically ill and no plan and no passion for the innovation of the established area and the establishment of a billing catalogue for care. Yes, the crisis has taken hold of us, but people living outside live with needs that need to be breast-fed. Corona must not be the excuse for everything, act at last! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37384	Next speaker: Mr Werner Saxinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37406	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Actually, in the debate on the health budget, I wanted to talk about the number of beds in the hospitals and the cost of protective equipment, but because of the dynamics and drama of the last days, I have spontaneously re-disposed and would like to express a few thoughts as a doctor, as a citizen, as a political person. As a citizen, I would like to say that this pandemic is a consequence. It'll take care of me too! Our life in freedom and self-determination is not as we wish, it is being put to a hard test. We're not used to that, and we're hardly gonna stop it. We all notice a certain tiredness, a polarization in society, and it is difficult for us to accept such restrictions, even if we understand their meaning and necessity – I also feel some ambivalent. And now the lockdown, everything to: terrible, but alternatively. Allow me now, as a affected hospital doctor, to think out loud in a large clinic as it is currently in the hospitals, to bring some kind of live report of the last days. What do I see and experience every day? – Listening Please, please! I see more and more Covid-19 patients getting into the hospital daily with symptoms such as severe breathing, fever and catastrophic general state, last ten to 20 per day. I see how all of us – doctors, nurses from all areas – support the Covid stations and intensive departments, also in addition to and after work. I see how we are barely able to create free beds in the last few days, and the newly converted and opened station from the day before is full again. I also see how some patients come to intensive care after a few hours due to severe breathing, and I have already experienced last week how some have failed and have not won the fight. I see and experience completely exhausted doctors, sisters and nurses who have been working for days on the border of loadability with thick protective suits for up to five hours nonstop. These are conditions that we have not known in Austria so far, and I believe it is really appropriate that we thank and condescend with applause all those who stand at the hospital front and do great things for the people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I am also experiencing calls for help from hospitals, which can hardly be achieved anymore, but, ladies and gentlemen, the inflow is unfortunately not ending. That's not a panic. What I'm saying here is bitter reality. Please watch the videos from the hospitals; it is about the next few days. The lockdown is the only possible response to these dramatic states, it is alternatively unscrupulous, and the Federal Government has done the only right thing – yes, have to do! – to save human lives. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Alternatively, he is not at all!]] The time of differentiated considerations, ladies and gentlemen, the time of the egotrip is definitely over; we have indeed tried it differently in recent weeks. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Pure panic!]] [[Further call to the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the project of self-responsibility failed – unfortunately!, I say. We had to react sharply now, no one's easy to do. What would be the result of non-reacting? – You all know: No accident victims, no stroke, no heart attack patients could be adequately treated as we are used to and imagine. This must also be clear to the last unharmed, better know-how and denials. [[Abg. Amesbauer: (departing from the plenary room)... World downfall? It's inconceivable, this panic! I don't know.]] And something else: A defiant refusal of some sensible individual measure – keyword mask – is not just a model, but is really counterproductive and irresponsible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I also see hope: Everyone – really everyone! – can help to improve the situation in his personal area. Let us all adhere to the well-known and demanded measures! If we take back in the next two to three weeks, even if we are still so difficult, I am convinced that Christmas will be a bit as far as we all imagine and wish for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37495	The next item is Mr Rudolf Silvan's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37519	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Mr. Federal Minister, we are pleased that you are in good conversation with the federal states that you are in good conversation with social security funds. We are also pleased that there are promises, as the colleague Schwarz and colleague Schallmeiner mentioned earlier, but I note here today that on 18 November, we will be able to find a solution to this problem. November 2020 around 170 million euros are missing for hospital financing – that is a fact – and I hope that the money that was promised will actually flow for hospital maintenance. We have the largest health crisis in the Second Republic, and the Minister of Finance still refuses the failure of the ÖGK for the contributions. We have the largest health crisis in the Second Republic, and an ÖVP general director of AUVA initiates a discussion about the closure of a rehab centre that has provided the best medical care for heavy skull brain traumatized people for 30 years. We have the largest health crisis in the Second Republic, and yesterday, in the Board of Directors of the ÖGK, the urgent need to reorganise the Hanusch Hospital was rejected by the ÖVP majority. I believe you, Minister of Health, if you say that you are not self-reserving, you are in favour of not reducing performance. I believe that, but I think there are people at your coalition partner, Members who may not see this as the case, who are located in the ÖVP Economic Federation, who are located in the Industrial Union, whose motto is: Reduce service providers' contributions to social security at any price! The motto of the ÖVP is that the service providers – especially the Swarovskis and the Pierers in Austria – should as little as possible pay into the social system, and that the ÖVP should as far as possible have absolute power in social security schemes. That is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address two more things: first, health prevention, which has not yet been mentioned. With regard to the average life expectancy, in Austria, we are pretty high in the European Union, and in the really healthy years of life we are the fourth last. In Austria, the number of years actually experienced is 57, and in Sweden, for example, it is 73. There, too, one should put on the lever – not only to cut down pensions, but also to see that one allows people a good life. I'd like to say something about the pensions. There was a social minister from the beginning to the mid-1990s who called Hesoun – by the way, he also introduced the care allowance. He has used the best 15 years of working life to calculate pensions. This has mainly benefited women as well as people who have worked in the chord. Then came a Federal Chancellor named Schüssel who introduced the calculation period. In other words, through the lifetime calculation period, pensions have automatically decreased, and Mr Stöger is quite right: Whenever there is an ÖVP chancellor at work in this Republic, workers are worse off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37570	Next speaker: Mrs Alexandra Tanda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37592	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! As one of the last speakers on the health budget, I would like to stress once again the important achievements of the Federal Government, which are clearly reflected in this budget. Even though the opposition in a language that is often embarrassing and unworthy for this House, that everything, everything is bad, is probably the opposition itself to the inside: The increase in the budget is good, right and exemplary. We have heard the numbers many times today, I repeat them still again: 1.8 billion euros – that's nothing! The 600 million euros increase – remember, that's 50 percent more than in the previous year – is nothing. This increase has not only been important from many points of view, but also essential, especially for pandemic control reasons, for compensation for damages under the Epidemic Law and so on. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Of the 426 million euros, we have heard more often today. However, I would also like to stress the EUR 120 million, which are vaccine bound. As we heard from the Federal Minister earlier, this was a proper approach which is very forward-looking. This budget also goes to health care and to the future. This budget has been drawn up under the most difficult conditions and with great responsibility. It not only affects the demanding time we are now experiencing, but it is also directed towards the future. This budget will take account of the forthcoming issues of the future and of health care. I would like to stress developments in E-Health, which must be forced. Gender aspects, which have not yet been discussed, are in this budget place and are taken into account in the National Cancer Framework Programme, in research, in diagnostics and in therapy – especially the equal access of women and men to health care, because, as we know, men are a little negligent on this issue. In order to clarify once again the need for a good budget for health, it should be said: We have God thanks to one of the best health systems in the world! My colleague has already talked about intensive beds: with 28.9 intensive beds per 100 000 inhabitants we have one of the world's highest supply densities. We must continue to work on staying at this top! This is possible with this budget. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37640	Next speaker: Mrs Rosa Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37661	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home in front of the televisions! “It is one of the fundamental rights of every human being [...] to enjoy as good a health as possible.” – That is a quote from the WHO. With the expenditure in the health field, Austria is actually in the lead internationally. There are many health goals to help Mr and Mrs Österreicher to spend as many so-called healthy years in our country as possible. The mental health is one of the key elements. Mental health affects acute and also chronic diseases. What about this supply in our country? – The Minister has already mentioned it: The mental health care is a strong weakness in us. The waiting times for treatment dates are often weeks or months. There is an urgent need to expand the supply. In addition, the psyche has been under permanent stress since Covid-19. This also shows a study by the Danube University Krems on: Since April, a fifth of our population has suffered from depressive symptoms, fears, sleep problems and depression. This long and strong load continues, it has not improved after the end of the first lockdown, and we are only at the beginning of the second lockdown. The young adults suffer particularly strikingly. In this context, it is also very dangerous that the situation in the child and youth psychiatric system lies in the argent. A home care is not guaranteed at all, the children's and youth psychiatry clinics and stations are heavily overburdened. It is true that Covid is currently covering everything and everything else is going down. But the day will come when we will all see that the overall health damage is enormous. Many diseases are not detected or too late and then can no longer be cured, and the effective early detection has not fallen to Covid as a victim, but the government's action. The lack of health and care workers, which has been mentioned many times today, is really constantly in all mouths. But where is more money for training, for practice- and appropriate training, for continuous training? Where in the budget are good working conditions which make a significant contribution to ensuring that health professionals remain in the profession – we have a high drop-out quota –? Why do 40 percent of the young doctors leave Austria, and why do we just watch this? What about the home scholarship for doctors in your government program? Is that the victim of Corona, too? When does the government negotiate with the EU a new quota scheme at the medical colleges so that the threat of a shortage of supply, once apart from the pandemic, does not become a reality? Now intensive physicians, doctors, nurses and nurses can be seen in every mouth and on TV. They are praised, lamented – as just was – and some can even speak to the speaker at a press conference. After the crisis, they will surely be forgotten by the government. That's how it looks in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37707	Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37731	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I need Mr. Primarius Eligible saxinger: Yes, the situation in hospitals is. I know it's in your clinic Wels-Grieskirchen just as it is at the KUK in Linz. The problem of the Covid-19 epidemic is present, you can't deny that, and there is, of course, a need for personal responsibility. Many things are in demand, for example, regulations that go out. Mr. Minister, if you look at the last regulation, I – and also the inhabitants of Austria – have some hair on myself: In top sports, for example – and you need bread and games if there is something like this – football is allowed. Since 22 people are allowed to run after a ball, and when a goal is shot, they fall around the neck, bussing themselves and so on, it is allowed, one has only looked at the national team. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] – I have everything there, Minister of State. [[Keeping up-to-date documents]] But now you have to say one thing, and now I come to it: The animal caregivers – so well called the profession at the Chamber of Commerce – are those who run animal pensions, make animal care, care for dogs and so on, it is forbidden to stop their trainings because a single training of these caretakers is included in the event, Minister! That means they are not allowed to continue caring for their clients, although they are moving on an open space like in this room – these are only two people! [[Pointing hands to the meeting room]] They can't, that's forbidden. This is where the problem begins: I've been looking at what the WKO says about it. She says: No, it's allowed. – In the last few days, I’ve really – I don’t exaggerate – contacted dozens of people because they’re extremely insecure, they don’t know what’s going on anymore. I have a list here, a WKO document, which reads, for example: “All services (including close-to-body services such as mobile hairdressers or mobile cosmetics) at home for private customers are generally permitted”. – The store must lock the hairdresser! No one knows what's allowed now! The WKO writes one thing, the Ministry's regulation says something different, and the population of Austria is insecure in all of this. That means, Minister, I would really ask you: Let us see that we are bringing regulations close to reality, practical – and not practical –! If you can't do this with your lawyer, I can only give you the tip: Please exchange them! The regulation that has already been set up in this area is no longer normal. Nobody knows. We know that we have the pandemic, we know that the pandemic is terrible, that it has been the worst pandemic for 100 years – you have said that to the whole thing – but much, much more problems arise because no one knows about it. No one knows what to do through these regulations that you are giving out. No one knows what he's got to stick to. No one knows whether to be punished or not. For example, I'm asked: Who can I choose as a reference person? It says inside that reference person means you have contact several times a week. Today, a grandmother asked me: I have contact with my grandchildren only every 14 days, am I a referee? . Everything in your regulation is really dramatic. I would ask you to make all your orders public, so that everyone can understand them and comply with them accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37794	Mr Rudolf Anschober has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37819	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I apologize for the slight delay, but mask with glasses is sometimes a topic and a problem when you give it away or put it on. There have been a few speeches to which I would like to give a brief reply. I think it is a command of courtesy and fairness to answer the questions raised in this budget debate. One was the question raised by Mr Keck, who is now in a conversation, but we are always in a good conversation. As a hint for all those who are not 100% sure in detail: What is the spirit of some paragraphs in the regulation? What's what's meant? – At www.socialministerium.at we have formulated very, very many questions and answers. There you can also ask additional questions, which will then be answered in very understandable language. [[Abg. Stäger: We are a rule of law!]] That is, I believe, the best way to give some information in the event of uncertainty. The second point that has been addressed – which I am very happy about – is the question of zoonoses and pandemics. I think this is a very important issue. We have stated that we want to set up a major research area in Austria. We did not discuss and advise this week together with the Animal Protection Commission. We'll do that. Why? – Because the context, which is obvious, is already a very, very intense one. I do not mean agriculture, because what we see here, for example, with regard to fur farming at international level, has nothing to do with agriculture, but that is industry, that is, in fact the production of jewels – and that with and burdened by living beings who feel pain as well as other living beings, have sensibilities, have sensitivity. I am therefore very happy that Austria took a pioneering role with the exit in 2005, when I remember it correctly. But we must now fight for a European ban in this context. This is our task and responsibility for so many millions of animals that have no chance at all. We also know that there may and may be a relatively high risk of being connected with a next pandemic. This should be an Austrian initiative at European level: Stop this brutal fur production! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On a third point: A colleague has addressed the topic of plan and passion – I wrote it down because I liked it well. Although I am of the opposite opinion as to the outcome, we agree that both are important. The question is how we can achieve the rate of vaccination in a good way. We will soon come to the House with a draft law on who will be allowed to immunize everyone. There will have to be enlargements, in which we agree. Which group it is exactly, our experts are currently working on, and we will present it accordingly. At present, as the legitimists, we have essentially the doctors and the diplomatic nurses. We will significantly expand this so that we can achieve the goal of a very high rate of vaccination of at least 50 percent plus x in Austria – and the x should be as large as possible. Yes, I can only agree that we will go out of the traditional way and go much wider towards population groups. An example is: We will go very strongly into operations, together with the occupational doctors, with the industry, industry, trade unions, with the workers' chambers, in order to make a very close offer on the ground. We will, of course, already go in the initial phase with the offer very much in old and care homes, because this is the “main risk group” – under quotation marks. We will formulate this offer in a wide range, of course also in public space. From my point of view, the vaccination streets in Vienna, which were once realized in the test run, are very good. This too will be a model that we can roll out Austria-wide in order to make it as accessible as possible as possible. We will prepare four stages of vaccination: first of all very specific target groups, namely risk groups and particularly vulnerable groups and then health professionals. That is how we shall proceed gradually with a very clear programme. That's an important point. The next important point from my personal point of view is the question of side effects – others say collateral damage, but I don't like this term –, side effects in the following sense: Yes, we also had side effects in the hospitals and throughout the health system of covid control on population groups, especially when there was already a very strong mood in spring that hospitals and doctors are not safe places. We want to correct this, because it is extremely important that the medical practice and the hospital be seen as safe places and the early detection tests, the control examinations are carried out quite normally. My appeal is, moreover, to continue to implement the child vaccination programmes, not to worry about this area and not to push away any medical control activities, controls and, for example, vaccinations because they are concerned about the place. This is not a place of risk, but there is the best possible protection there. My request is not to postpone these dates, but to do so now, as it is planned. The hospitals and all the others are available for this. We have the great advantage compared to spring, that we now have enough protective materials. I think we should all communicate this as these side effects – they will be present this time too – should not be as big as in spring. – This is the area of side effects that has been addressed. As another important point, I would simply like to clarify something – for who knows what else happens to such myths –: It was quoted by a speaker of the FPÖ a pulse 4 interview with me, in part, with the accusation that I had indirect communication via Pulse 4 – that would be an interesting decision-making and communication; in fact, the Parliament is and is the government of the place where one would have to decide something like that, by the way – announced that the lockdown over the 6. It also continued on 1 December. It's not like that. I have already – I have to admit that – formulated something misunderstanding, that is right. That is why we can interpret it as you did, Mr President. By formulating that the lockdown stops, however, it was not meant that it will continue, but that the effect of the lockdown will continue. I would just like to clarify this so that there is no misunderstanding. I've already done this on Twitter and Facebook. We must have the goal that the lockdown is so sustainable that it not only works for a few weeks, but that it works for as long as possible until vaccination. That means that we lower the numbers – I have explained this in connection – so that we have air again for the next weeks and months, if it is months up to vaccination. - I think that's clear. One last point: I have repeatedly had difficulties dealing with people who – from the scientific sphere, from the medical field or also from a party-political field – deny Covid impoverished or Covid. Now you can do with any Of course, there are different positions in the area, but, of course, the debate is partly just when it comes to doctors – in individual cases, only in individual cases! – has already contributed to the fact that parts of the population were simply insecure. I have to tell you quite openly and honestly: If Mr Saxinger here in this House reports from his practice of working in the hospitals and then comes from a member of the interlocutory call that be pure panic, then I personally just don't understand. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What's the matter with you guys, that you're so over-disputing about the realities? When do we finally make it that we say: So, now is the end of party politics, now we give ourselves – almost figuratively speaking – the hand and try to go through this crisis together, and in six weeks, in eight weeks, we will then have the party political debate again!? – This is not a war of faith, it is not a dispute of faith. This is scientifically proven. What do you think, then, are these patients coming to intensive care stations? I don't think she's inventing anyone. I really consider it to be an increase in the work of the physicians and the caregivers when we discuss this with each other and not even take this situation seriously and support the activity of those concerned on the ground as it really is the command of the hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37871	I am now in the process of subdividing 24, health, no more word reports, and I am therefore also concluding this subject area. [[12:51:42]] UG 14: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37893	We're coming to sub-division 14: Military affairs. I very much welcome Mrs Claudia Tanner in our midst. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Robert Laimer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37923	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Hand in heart, Mrs. Minister, the marginal increase of 5 percent in Austria's national defence for 2021 is a Pyrrhus victory. According to the budget forecast, the following years will be accompanied by a continuous budget cut, and our constitutional institution, the Federal Army, will continue to bluish financially. From the former target of 3 billion euros you are miles away, Mrs. Minister! The budgetary revelation will be postponed to 2022. Ladies and gentlemen! Much is in the murky of our minister's term of office and has to be clarified quickly. Active airspace monitoring is no longer secured by the withdrawal of the Saab 105 lower-sounding aircraft. From 2021, the expensive Eurofighters are supposed to have exclusive rights over our airspace. The planned 1,500 flight hours for 2021 allow monitoring to be as dizzy as Swiss Emmental cheese. The constitutional obligation is no longer sufficiently fulfilled, and the additional costs for 2021 are exorbitant, but flight hours of the bowl pilot cost the tenfold of the replacement-replaced Saab 105; this means 900 percent additional costs per hour for the Eurofighter monopoly. By the way, the Eurofighters that have now come into existence must also be upgraded, which, of course, is associated with high additional costs. This inconvenient political bowling mass was and is a good business for Airbus, because, as it looks, the biggest corruption scandal is unfortunately not given to anyone just for taxpayers, as the Republic will remain at the expensive cost. Another grey zone ahead of us is the BIG deal with the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft or the sale of the Austrian federal army. We will look closely at who, for example, will receive the award in the planned sale of the properties – the so-called fillet pieces in Vienna – if there are not potential campaign donors from the Federal Chancellor – of course completely objectively across the BIG. That would then, as it were, be once again a big deal among friends. [[Abg. Steinacker:... only the BIG lacks objectivity!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Among the published risk images for Austria, besides hybrid threats, pandemics, especially blackout scenarios, are relevant. The real danger of a blackout must not be underestimated and the preparation for the necessary resilience throughout society must be a command of the hour. Unfortunately, the cyberdefence is still in its infancy in Austria, but it will become an indispensable state task. There we are in a race with time. For this reason, experts must be trained who will certainly not stand in front of your headquarters on the Roßauer Lände snake. The pandemic has unfortunately taught us that we need to keep our health system stable and to expand even further. In the area of military anity, too, a rethinking has happened, hopefully, to create robust infrastructure that could well end up in a pandemic center in the medium term. Protection and help – these messages shape the German army. The German army has proved this very much this year in the year of disease. However, in order to be able to achieve this assistance in the case of assistance and so on, there is a need for financial conditions. In this way too, I am particularly grateful to all the soldiers and especially to the militia. Until today, there was no money from the Covid-19 crisis management fund for the state defense. I fear that the last iron reserves will have to be used up in order to get close to a claim at all, and at the same time, the Ministry of the Interior is calling on the Federal Government for everything anyway. The Ministry of Health also needs our army like a bite of bread. The horse foot with it: There's nothing going to pay for it. Mrs. Minister, you've got to get through there. You have to get through, because it always means: Whoever pays, make it! Although the German army is bought across the Republic, only these operations are not paid. Loyalty to be there all the time and everywhere for the Republic must also be paid for monetaryly. Perhaps you will get to know your Minister of Finance in this regard. It would be in the sense of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37960	Next speaker: Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e37984	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Laimer came here and complained that it was too little budget. But if you look at the numbers in detail, you know, it's a bigger piece more than the last SPÖ and FPÖ ministers had to put on the budget. It is almost 2.7 billion euros available to us for the coming year – an increase of 5 percent compared to the previous year – plus special investments of almost 655 million euros when it comes to procurement in the coming years. The German army is carrying out extensive tasks every day. Apart from the constant preparation for the state defense, it has now also been active in supporting the use of corona, was also supportive in the terrorist attack or is also very active in the defence of terrorism. It helps when it comes to disasters, and does much more, much more. It is extensive what needs to be prepared here. Yes, these investments are therefore necessary. Thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for you have managed to achieve this increase in the budget, because the investment is urgently necessary – we know that. You have looked forward in order, you have invested both in the infrastructure and in the personal equipment, the training, the training of the team and of course also fully invested when it comes to bets on the ground, in the air or even on the water. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I would like to say a great thank you to all the German army members who often go into difficult operations that benefit us every day, but who also take care of the peace in this world beyond national borders, often putting themselves in danger. From our side we will and can only support this with the utmost care and we will also gladly agree to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38026	Mr Reinhard Eugen Bösch is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38048	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Granted, we will have an increase in the 2021 budget. But this is only a one-time effect if we look at the further development. In the Federal Financial Framework, reality is evident, as the label gap becomes visible, because from 2022 onwards the finances for the Austrian German army will decline again. This is therefore not a continuous development towards further building up the Austrian federal army and its capacities. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] At the beginning of the year, Mrs. Minister, you called into question the constitutional mandate of the Federal Government to defend the state. At the time, a mistrust request against you was rightly filed by the three opposition parties. But you have also – I suppose, on behalf of your party, your federal party observer – led the surveillance of the airspace to the edge of the ruin. Due to the decision of the failure of the subsonic aircraft Saab 105, we have made ourselves dependent on the 15 Eurofighters we currently have as the only fleet available. They have also not actually promoted relations with the States that are operating Eurofighter and Airbus with a somewhat obscene press conference. It would have been better if you had been looking for a basis for discussion with the operator states, for example Germany or Italy, which are countries with which we are friends at European level, with which we can talk and also do business. They should also have thought, not only with regard to the sale of the current Eurofighters, but also with regard to the establishment of a base for discussion, a reasonable basis of discussion; You should've gotten in touch with the company, too. Then the Republic would have had a better standing with regard to the claim for compensation, reimbursement of costs and compensation for damages which we have claimed with this action, which has now been rejected. We have to get to the meeting that other countries have also received this compensation. That is why it is a shame that we have not used the whole range of possibilities to help the Republic's interests to break through. We advocate that the subsonic pilots receive a tracking, we also advocate that in relation to the Eurofighters everything we can do with it, either a decommissioning, a sale, a follow-up or also an update of the 15 aircraft we have. The basis for all these decisions, Mrs Minister, has been drawn up, they have been defined under Mario Kunasek. We don't need a committee of inquiry, we just need a decision from the Federal Government responsible for it. We need a decision from the minister responsible – and that is you. In the field of airspace surveillance, there was a positive appearance, which is the helicopter post-purchase, but also this was already initiated under Mario Kunasek, it has now been implemented under your ministry. They have not – for the second time – really followed a constitutional principle, Mrs. Minister. They have not helped a constitutional principle to break through, namely the principle of militia. We have been demanding for years that there must be mandatory militia exercises – if we can follow this principle and if we can satisfy it with life at all. This has not happened in your time of government. There will be no mandatory military exercises and therefore not sufficient planning in this area, which is very bad. You have also begun to raise the question of sales of barracks, you are once again scorching the family silver of the Austrian federal army. With regard to the new tasks we have been given, with regard to the storage – the law we decided yesterday – also with regard to your attempts to build the Miliz personnel, to bring partial persons to the service of the Austrian federal army, we think it is irresponsible that we are now once again selling land, barracks, which would be ready for reference, which are also available for use. You should abandon it, Mrs Minister, in the sense of the development of the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Based on the appeal of the Chief of the General Staff, I am entitled to submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38206	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. David Stögmüller is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38233	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been thinking about the preparation of this speech, which has actually happened since the fishing of this Federal Government in the area of the Federal Army; and it is not very little what one sees when one year of this one year of revue happens. I recall reporting on the Eurofighters and the discussion on the future of airspace surveillance, on assistance operations until the first convocation of the militia, where there has now been partial mobility due to the Covid-19 panel. That is also the point I would like to address first. What shows us above all the Milize convocation is that the German army is no longer just facing the classical military challenges. That is why I look specifically at the budget for the defence of the state with a view to the very central question: What kind of federal army will we need in the future? What kind of federal army do we want? Or: What do we want a modern federal army to do in the future? That is the question we should ask ourselves. We need a federal army that can respond to the modern threats such as cyber attacks, blackouts, environmental disasters or just a pandemic as we have at the moment. These would also be natural disasters, which will meet us much more often because of climate change in the future. The Federal Army protects the civilian population and can help support it. We need a federal army that is not paralysed by a blackout, a federal army that is as diverse as the Austrian population. That's what we need. We have clearly stated in the government's programme and agreement that we want to orient the German army and its tasks exactly where the biggest challenges will be in the future. The aim is that the army, the German army, as a whole, will become more modern, that the ground defense service will be made more attractive and that the military will also have sufficient resources to carry out necessary tasks. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis, we know that a pandemic is not just a scenario that may happen, but a real danger scenario, a threat that calls the entire state and all citizens to the highest. There, too, a federal army needs to be prepared for the corresponding challenges. In this regard, the Federal Army has shown in recent months – and you can confirm this, Mrs. Minister – what it is doing to protect all the people who live in Austria. Many thanks to all the soldiers for this and soldiers. Thank you for that! [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] The national defence budget for the coming year also reflects these wishes and these many aspects. As you know, a total of EUR 2.673 billion will be disbursed for 2020, which is an increase of 5 percent – the colleague has already explained this. And the crisis shows us just how important it is that the federal army infrastructure remains operational and operational regardless of the civil infrastructure. That is why I am pleased that a total of more than 400 million euros are available for the period 2021 to 2024, including a disaster protection package. Trucks, special machines and appliances are purchased, there are improvements in various barracks, even to create autarchy. We drive an ABC package and also a sanity package. I think these are the challenges we have to make the German army fly in this area too. It should also be stressed that there are some more, namely 14,1 million euros, for the use of militia and assistance in 2021 and an investment package for the expansion and strengthening of cybersecurity, which is 20 million euros. I also think this is very important, because cyberdefence will be a challenge that will call for us in the next few years and decades. The military soldiers currently in use deserve not only our thanks, but also a equipment that protects them sufficiently and supports them in their work. Therefore, it is also necessary that everything within the militia is sufficiently available, from protective vests to safety holsters to flashlights. I therefore also think it is important that we have clearly agreed in the government programme on upgrading the militia and providing it better, and that this is reflected in the budget. In the same breath, however, I would also like to mention the basic defence servants, with whom we, as a coalition partner, have agreed that on the one hand, they can no longer simply be used as assistants at the border and on the other hand, they will also come to a financial appreciation if they declare themselves ready early to take up the service of the militia. I think that is very good and a very important step. Why? – Because it helps us to inspire more people for the militia. As a young person, you can say: I do not do the full training of soldiers and weapons in the basic military service, but I would like to complete this training later in the military. – This brings more young people into the militia, and we may thus have more competences in training in the militia – whether in cyberdefence or in other areas, such as the pioneers. I think that this is a very important point in order to attract the basic defence service and perhaps also to motivate young people to go to the federal army and take on this important task. For a sustainable federal army, we therefore need autarchic barracks, an effective militia, a more attractive ground defense service and the best minds in many areas, especially in cyberdefence. – Thank you and congratulations on the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38307	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38339	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A budget is for planning what is to happen in the future. The budget is to say what will happen next year, and in the financial framework, what will happen in the years beyond that. I will not lose too many words about the financial framework now because it has already been done by the previous speakers. We know that the prospects arising from the financial framework are not very positive, even if you come back here afterwards and say: That's the biggest budget of all time, it's going to be great for all of us and it's all going to be beautiful! – Unfortunately, it is not because the numbers speak other words. However, regardless of the financial framework, it is generally fair to say that other aspects of this budget are not very far into the future, but rather very much past orientation. This is not only because of you, Mrs Federal Minister, but also because of the shortcomings that have occurred over the past few years. You have to address this openly and honestly. If we look at the device, then of course we have the situation that trucks – mentioned by colleagues Stögmüller – are outdated, for example. If we look at the missing helicopters, when we look at the sanity – which is just a very big topic – then we see that there have been problems over the past few years and decades. But I do not believe that will bring you from the point of view of the responsibility to solve these problems. You have become Minister of Defense with the knowledge of the state of the Austrian federal army – at least I hope so – and so you should have done much more than that. We see from the opposition, I think a lot of things are different. This is probably also true of you in the government, you too will have different positions and will judge differently how the federal army is going to develop. So we see this question quite differently from the opposition. However, one thing that is at least one of us in the opposition is that it clearly needs more resources for the security of the Austrians and thus for the Austrian federal army, but also that more resources are needed for the further development of the Austrian federal army. That is why Mr Bösch made this request with our support just before. I believe that there is one thing in which we should all agree – also outside the opposition and also outside the government – here in the High House, namely that for the future and for security more resources and a better and adequate equipment of the Austrian federal army are needed. Accordingly, I would also ask you to go along with this request, because it would be a very strong sign of the House to present it to the government and thus to show the boundaries. Perhaps also in general with this government or generally with the role of the EIA over recent years in the field of defence: We have long since returned to an ÖVP minister in the defence department – for the first time a minister. They stand up – they are in a difficult situation – and say: That's the biggest budget, we've achieved so much! – I would like to point out who the finance ministers of recent years and decades have been: These were always ÖVP finance ministers who have always fought for fewer funds for the Austrian federal army. If I hear today that all the things asked for by the Ministry of Finance, with which one has tried to get something for the defence resort, from In turn, the Ministry of Finance has been rejected, I wonder what role you can play here and say that this is the greatest budget. It is – Mr Bösch has mentioned it – the sale of barracks is planned, but, as it looks, it is not even such that the money comes to our place, but even the first 10 million euros are eaten up by the general budget framework and remain with the Ministry of Finance. It's not the country's defence resort that's supposed to benefit from it. In addition, everyone here celebrates these great special packages: Total EUR 190 million for cybersecurity, health care, the terrorist and disaster prevention package. All these packages are beautiful and good, but what does that mean when we're always talking about special instruments? What is a special instrument, what is special funding? – Special funding means that we need this once to finance something. But all these things are clumsy wounds from the past that would be financed, but not unique, but lasting. We do not even need these 190 million euros for the health sector, but we need them permanently in order to be able to provide the health sector. We need permanent money to strengthen the cybermiliz or cyberdefence – not uniquely. That's exactly the problem of these special packages that you sell here as a big throw. In the final effect, however, it is exactly the opposite: It leads us back to the past, as the Austrian federal army has not been financed in the long term. One thing – or two things – is missing in this budget, which, I think, can be overwriting: One is a clear vision. Where are you going? It's always only work of art, it's PR-gags that you can easily sell – Milizpackage et cetera. What is missing is from my point of view – and the ÖVP has been lacking for a very long time – a real passion for the topic of national defence, a real passion for the security of the Austrians. She likes posters, but not in your hearts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38397	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Claudia Tannerzu word reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38422	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen and dear children and young people in front of the screens! They are the ones who must and will be at the centre of all our thoughts in the last few days and in the future too. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Our army – protection and assistance – is the strategic reserve of the Republic of Austria. This has, and has already been mentioned, shown, not least the great cyber-rat attack on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the beginning of the year when experts of our House were used to combat this attack. This has also shown the use of the soldiers after the insidious terrorist attack in Vienna at the beginning of November, when the German army took over the object protection in Vienna on the night of terror in order to relieve the police for investigation work. Military police and hunting command were also alerted and kept themselves ready for orders. We have also provided armored vehicles, and ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the numerous operations in the framework of disaster aid, especially in addition to the diverse assistance missions and support services in the Corona crisis, which we are still doing around the clock, because the corona situation still has us firmly under control. During the corona pandemic, our army has shown what it can do. Up to now, some 5 million hours of assistance work have been carried out. Since March, almost 1,000 soldiers and civilians were in service every day against Covid-19. At this point a very, very great thank you all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We even had to expand this commitment to assist health authorities in managing the pandemic. Last week, we offered the federal states to double the number of federal authorities used to support the health authorities, and many countries have made use of it. The soldiers help Austrian-wide in border checks, contact tracking, drive-in testing stations, in the handling of sampling removals and wherever they are needed in the fight against the corona virus. Currently this week, a total of 1 035 soldiers are in the corona deployment. This, ladies and gentlemen, is in addition to the security police operations – migration at borders – and the guarding of vulnerable buildings after the insidious terrorist attack in Vienna. Working conditions – and this is what you forget sometime – are not always easy for our soldiers, because everyone has to be careful not to become sick himself, to protect themselves from infections by respecting strict measures. We are again required: We are in agreement with the Ministry of Health and with the Federal Chancellery on the planning work for mass testing to take place after the end of the lockdown. We can be proud of our soldiers, who have gained so important first experiences in the field of neighbourhood assistance in Slovakia, which benefit all of us now. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, you decided to build a Covid-19 warehouse as an emergency stock with protective equipment and other necessary medical materials and equipment. These camps are intended to compensate for bottlenecks and needs for a certain period of time, and the costs are covered by the Covid-19 crisis management fund, ladies and gentlemen. In this year alone, the events and events discussed show quite clearly: The Federal Army needs to be adapted to the new challenges, and without a doubt the necessary budget is needed. As far as the failure, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, not to say decades, is concerned, we have an incredible amount to catch up with. But we are now at the beginning of a process of change; the time of standstill, ladies and gentlemen, is over. We will join the Austrian federal army in the 21st century. In order to meet the security challenges of the century. I ask all of you for your support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The one is the figure 2021. This year, 2020, with EUR 2,545 billion and an increase of 9.9 percent, we have achieved the historically largest budget we have ever had. That's 258 million euros, and we keep this course. next year. We're going up one gear: In 2021 there will be even more budget, 2021 there will be a budget of around 2,6728 billion euros. Compared to the previous year, 2019, this corresponds to an increase of around 356.6 million euros or to an increase of 15.4 percent compared to the success of 2019. So, if you decide, ladies and gentlemen, this is the highest budget in the history of the Federal Ministry of Defence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, children and young people! We will thus make many, many necessary investments that our army has been waiting for for so long. We get new helicopters, vehicles, equipment and equipment. We invest in the infrastructure, from the wet cell to the general renovation, our barracks will – yes! – brought to the front man. In the coming years, we will also invest heavily with special financing packages in the areas of Covid-19 Militance Assistance, Cybersecurity, ABC, Sanity, Terror and Civil Protection. I'm grabbing out a package: Cybersecurity/autarchy. Today, there has been a power failure in Penzing and Ottakring. You will see how important it is that we ensure that the network's resilience is also given to strengthen the network's connections. We must further promote the digitalisation of the Austrian federal army and also strengthen the capabilities of our intelligence agencies for cyberdefence. The health package has already been addressed. There is no doubt that mobility needs to be improved, and we will finally be able to start to exchange and complement the sanity fleet. The transport capability through helicopters and through our transport aircraft, the Hercules, must also be improved. The exchange of obsolescent medical equipment is also on the agenda. Terror protection package, 25 million euros: In particular, this is about improving the equipment of the soldiers, by acquiring night vision glasses, military helmets for the militia, improving the technical devices and additional sensors. The disaster protection package must also include a procurement of vehicles and a continuation of the fleet exchange already started with the trucks, and not only that – that has already been mentioned –: This includes the procurement of special machinery and equipment such as various excavators and pioneer machines. We have to work and we're going to work on the base. We are in the process of upgrading the basic military service and the militia. This is part of the government programme we are implementing. Under the motto: My service for Austria, we have taken a series of measures of EUR 10 million annually, which we have already been allowed to present. Why do we do this, ladies and gentlemen? – The basic defenses are the basis of our federal army, without them there are no cadre soldiers and no militia. Ladies and gentlemen! Every euro that flows into the budget of the defence resort is a euro for the security of our children, our parents, our relatives, our family, at the end of the day for ourselves. We'll take care of the safety. We can't buy this 100 percent, we had to experience it painfully just recently, but we can make sure that our soldiers, our civil servants, can fulfill their mission and protect us in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38549	Next speaker is Ing. Manfred Hofinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38573	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it's unquestionably: We have a very strenuous year with many challenges behind us, but it has shown us that the German army is particularly important for dealing with crises such as the pandemic that we now have, and also for security, when we think of the terrorist attack in Vienna, and that the importance of the German army has increased particularly this year. I think that is why it is important that we invest a lot in the federal army. With great investment, we decide on the highest federal army budget that has ever existed, and I would like to congratulate you very much on that. This will also enable us to make the federal army fit for the future. We will invest almost 2.7 billion euros or 2.7 percent of the total federal expenditure in Austria. It's been said a lot. There is, of course, also an investment store, and we MEPs are in the regions, in the barracks and visit them. It's also aware of us: They do a wonderful job, but of course the buildings and the barracks need a renovation, and we have to invest in it, of course, also because the motivation of the soldiers is given back. We invest a total of EUR 470 million in new equipment, in barracks, and these investments also have an added value for the regions. I would also like to take this up and stress, because every investment helps the region, creates jobs, manages value added. We invest – and this has shown this year – of course also in the militia: Assistant missions, cybersecurity, terrorist control, disaster package, health care package and ABC package. All these investments make our federal army fit for the future, we have to buy modern equipment, we have to offer modern accommodations and attract the training in order to be able to offer our basic defence servants an attractive federal army – in today's time, the federal army is not a matter of course, and young people can already choose it. Yes, the threat scenarios, the hybrid threats are becoming more and more, and – the Federal Minister has already mentioned it – we are therefore investing very massively in the cybersecurity area and the fight against terrorism. We are also investing – Mrs. Federal Minister, I am very pleased that we decided this year – in new helicopters, so airspace monitoring will continue to be guaranteed in the future. I would like to take a personal point because it is also very important to me personally: the barracks renovations. As a Member of Parliament, I live on the border with Germany, and with regard to border security this year was a very challenging year. The soldiers of the Tienner-Kaserne in Ried perform wonderful work, they were in operation at the border and during the tests, have supported the Red Cross and so on and so on. They are always in place in the face of environmental disasters, are a lot in foreign operations, and I am very well connected with them. They are very motivated people, but of course they also need new buildings, which I think is something very important. There are also early plans, and I believe that the first renovations can start in spring 2021. I would like to thank you very much for this. Finally, I would like to thank all the soldiers, all those responsible, seniors who made a special contribution last year, for ensuring security, for fighting the pandemic, and I would also like to thank them in advance for supporting us again in the tests taking place after the second lockdown. On the Austrian army is left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38619	Mrs Petra Wimmer has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38643	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, children and young people and all who watch us today! Mrs. Minister! Especially in times of crisis, the Federal Army is also an important factor in the sense of security of the population, and one thing is certain: We can rely on the army. We can rely on the active support for storms, floods, snow chaos, but also on the many tasks and challenges of a health crisis. They also carried out this earlier, 35 000 soldiers are in use for it. It becomes particularly visible which important and diverse tasks the German army and also the basic defense servants in Austria perform. They are always used when help is needed in a large style, and then they are always on the spot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the German army would be particularly important in the case of a blackout. The population assumes that the German army is ready to provide energy, with water, with food, with fuel in case of such a total failure. But is that realistic? Are the barracks really equipped for this? Are the power units present in the barracks? Are there drinking water wells, drinking water storage? What about fuel supply? Madam Minister, unfortunately these questions have not been answered satisfactorily so far. However, the population has a right to know whether, in the event of such a total failure, a blackout, you can actively stand by the federal army and whether it is also prepared to do so, whether there is everything you need in such a case. Mrs Minister, I would ask you to give the German army the opportunity to support the population as much as possible in the case of a blackout, create the necessary conditions and equip the barracks accordingly! Ladies and gentlemen, we know that we can rely on the German army, and the German army must rely on us, on the politics that we create the framework conditions that it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38686	Next speaker is Mag. Friedrich Ofenauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38711	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Yes, the Federal Minister, the figures, the data and the facts of the budget on military matters have already been presented. I should like to congratulate you very warmly, and I believe that with this presentation of the The budget is once again clarified that the military state defense is and will remain the main task of the Austrian federal army. Two more figures: In 2021, disbursements of 2,673 billion euros are planned, equivalent to an increase of 5 percent compared to 2020, and investments rise to 470,6 million euros in 2021 compared with 347.1 million euros in 2020. Of course, it is also clear that in addition to the conventional tasks it has and will continue to have, we must also allow the Austrian federal army to face new challenges – they have already been addressed – of hybrid threats, cyberattacks, terrorist acts; and all of this in addition to the skills in conventional struggle. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen. Why are hybrid threats so dangerous? – The concept of alone already sounds dangerous: because it is a combination of traditional military operations – which is why the ability in conventional struggle is still important – combined with economic pressure, cyber attacks and propaganda in the social media and the Internet. In order to be able to deal with this, we need a wide range of capabilities, ladies and gentlemen, because the aim of such attacks is not only to cause damage, but in particular to destabilize entire societies and to influence opinions. The answer to this can only be, as it has long been in the Federal Constitutional Act, the comprehensive national defense, the military, the spiritual, the civil and the economic. Especially for the military sector, for the appropriate capabilities, the 2021 budget provides – for cyberdefence with 19 million euros, for the increase of the ABC defense, for strengthening the militia through personal equipment, communications, vehicles, strengthening the resistance and autarchy of the barracks. Helicopter procurement was addressed, the acquisition of heavy equipment is not to be forgotten. The whole aim is to ensure that the military state defense is and remains the central task of the Austrian Federal Army. It will also be the strategic reserve according to the motto: Help, if others can no longer be!, be what is especially important in the protection of disasters. As a basis for the civil defence of the country, the basic service therefore has a very essential function for me, because the knowledge and the skills acquired there – of course also for the military sector – can ideally also be taken into civil life and applied in civil life. I think in this direction we must also upgrade the ground defense service, according to the motto: An obligation with added value. We also need to look at staff in the future. We will also have a wave of retirement in the Austrian federal army over the next ten years, but this will also give us the opportunity to convert the personnel structure, transfer more staff to the force – and of course it would be nice and desirable if this budget were to remain in the Austrian federal army. Finally, I would like to thank the soldiers for their work, no matter where they do it, whether in education, abroad or in the country, at the Assistants on the occasion of the corona pandemic or on the border. – A warm thanks for this commitment.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38771	Next speaker: Mr. MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38795	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated Austrians! Once again, the ÖVP wants to sharpen the valuable family silver of the Austrian federal government, i.e. the properties. For example, a sub-area of the Schwarzenberg-Kaserne is to be sold in Salzburg, where the German army has been operating a military logistics centre for many, many years. I should like to remind you that, yesterday in the House, we voted unanimously, the COVID-19 storage law. The Federal Army, under the COVID-19 Storage Act, is responsible for storing and obtaining strategic reserves of protective equipment for the Republic. In the absence of adequate storage capacity, external storage space must also be rented for expensive money. In Salzburg we would have the opportunities to do so. Important areas of expansion are lost to the German army through this sale. However, especially catastrophic for the Austrian army are the recovery plans of the properties in Vienna. These are to be thrown to the BIG at a price of friendship. Great profiter of this asset transaction are the BIG and its mother, the Öbag. If property of the Austrian federal army already has to be sold, which the FPÖ strictly rejects, then these property transactions must take place on the free market, where free competition and not the BIG determines the price. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, the BIG will not pay a foreign price, you know that very well. Their attempts at explanation in the Budget Committee, the key word "improvement clause", are totally inadequate attempts at weighting. From the point of view of the Austrian federal army, there is no real reason for the BIG to intervene. Minister Tanner, why defend Are you opposed to a public tender on the free market? They are not acting in the interest of the Austrian federal army. The increase in the Federal Army budget is not based on the negotiating skill of the Federal Minister, but is financed by the Austrian Federal Army itself by the underprivileged concealment of properties. In this context, I should also like to refer to a Court of Auditors report on the assistance and support services provided by the Federal Army for border management, which states that two thirds of these costs have not been replaced by the Austrian Federal Army, two thirds of which had to be challenged by the Austrian federal army from the regulatory budget. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38921	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Peter Weidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e38948	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians and all the people who live here! I believe that we all agree on one point – and this has actually come out quite clearly with all the speakers on this issue – that security is of particular importance that it is necessary and correct to comply fully with the constitutional mandate of the Austrian Federal Army and to take all necessary measures to protect and secure the population. If you look at the criticisms of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, you can see that you already have to go a long way to find out in this area, because since the Federal Minister is in office, a plan is clearly structured and strategicly pursued to increase protection and security, as well as to expand the military and its infrastructure. At this point, I would like to thank the people of Villacher for the clear decision that a large barracks in Villach is created, that a barracks location is made from three barracks sites. I would like to expressly support this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also noted that the more regional policy approaches this issue, the more understanding there is in the population. The head of the Kärntner state and the mayor of Villacher together, under the leadership of the Federal Minister of Labour, set out the steps to implement this project in the interests of the local population, but also in addition. Why is this necessary and correct, ladies and gentlemen? – Security Islands are necessary to be ready accordingly in the case of blackouts, pandemics, terrorist activities, as well as cyber-rat attacks and to contribute to supporting the population. The Federal Minister has succeeded in negotiating, for example, an increase of 127 percent in the area of investment. That's great, that's right and that's good. I would like to say another sentence concerning the sale of land: I am firmly convinced and I am sure that all activities will always take place on the ground of the rule of law, and I can only say on the example of the city of Villach, that when two sites, one in the city centre and one in the economic area, are left out, there are new, additional possibilities for urban development. In this sense: Thank you to the men and women who work in uniform and help when others can no longer, and thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for this excellent budget that we will gladly support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39002	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Harald Door. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39027	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the state budget 2021: Military Affairs/Austrian Federal Lord. When I hear the speakers of Turquoise and Green, I think we are discussing the Swiss army: Everything is fine, one thanks to the other, there are congratulations for the biggest budget. The jubilant speakers, the Laudators, the praisers of Green and Black or Turquoise, sorry, believe that they can win so much money from the Minister of Finance. – This is a path of wood, I believe that more budget resources from the Minister of Finance can only be achieved by addressing the problems openly, the problems that exist in reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The praisers of Green and Turquoise do not help in this situation to actually overcome more means of security. The terrorist attack in Vienna from the 2nd century. November has shown that security has become a top topic. The issue of more money for security will not be covered by praises and praises, but will have to fight for more resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== November in Vienna has also shown that the willingness of executive forces, local people and equipment has become enormously important. One of those local helpers was a soldier of the Austrian federal army, who immediately contributed to Swedeplatz Verwoundete. Such a thing is only possible with a well-trained militia; a well-trained militia can in the event of disaster, can help in emergency situations. I believe that an essential point is the compulsory exercises of the militia, and to do so it must be the appropriate equipment, and there must be a corresponding mobility, but there are major shortcomings. Propos mobility: The mobility package has been announced since 2018, a good story, but what has happened to this mobility package? I'm missing the results. The announcement policy and the celebration of a supposed big buffet is far too little for me. What I think is very, very positive is the continuation of the order for the Pandur troops transporter, which ensures safety, which is a good, an efficient measure. The continuation of the order concerning these troops transporters, which is produced in Vienna-Simmering, is a good story, especially for foreign operations and peace missions. The opposition plays a constructive role. We do not see everything black, as the government speakers see everything positive, we have a differentiated view, and if the government makes something positive, like the acquisition of the transporter of troops, we say so too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that only the differentiated picture of the opposition in terms of security will help to create more resources in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39093	The next speaker is Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39117	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Not agreed with colleagues [[A panel on the speaker’s desk, under the heading “Development Budget / billion. ” €” on the basis of three green pillars, the amount of the respective defence budget for Austria, Sweden and Switzerland is presented]] We are not in Switzerland, Switzerland is as far as the military budget is concerned, here, and Austria is there in the graphic representation ; [[pointing to the highest column on the table]] [[pointing to the lowest column on the table]] Switzerland: over 4 billion euros, Austria: 2.6 billion euros. There has now been a lot of talk about the tasks of the Federal Army, and none of the previous speakers, even the Federal Ministers, has literally mentioned the task of military defence. It's been talked about disaster protection, cyber, assistance services, relief services et cetera – we're going to pack down at the level of Packerl for the post, corona test roads and drive-in testing stations. That's all nice and good. The self-understanding of the Freedom Party is that an organization called itself military has the core task of military national defense. So the military defense is the heart of an organization called a military. This military defence costs of course, this military national defense is the strategic reserve. Investments in military defence are investments in the strategic reserve, which has already been so often tried here. It serves to protect, to protect our children and grandchildren, to protect human beings, to protect our neutrality for the ultima ratio, the military conflict case. Cyber and disaster protection, security of embassies and other assistance, that's all beautiful and good, but the core task of the Austrian federal army is the military defence and protection of our children, grandchildren, our population in the event of a military conflict. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are not prepared to do so, because this requires appropriate resources, and since the EUR 2.6 billion in Weitem is not enough – the highest budget of all times, by the way, that goes down again by 2024 – as opposed to the budget of Sweden, which already has over EUR 3 billion. I have deliberately taken Austria, Sweden and Switzerland, because these countries are comparable. Nato is an organization that everyone knows where, as I believe, one can already assume that it knows about the standards of resources, that it knows what resources are needed in order to fulfil the mandate of military national defence. You know that, the Nato standard is 2%. So 2 percent would be 8 billion euros for Austria – nobody speaks of it, because of that we are away light years. We're immersing at 2.6 billion euros, falling. We are not able to cover the military defence in such a way that it meets appropriate standards. We are not in a position to present the strategic reserve for the security of our population, not at Weitem. Why are we not able to do this? - Because you don't want to. I say quite consciously: They don't want that, the ÖVP doesn't want it! With the greens, it's clear, it doesn't surprise me. Mr. Stögmüller is for a modern federal army – that is the Green approach – with disaster protection, Cyber et cetera, but of course for no military national defense. But the ÖVP does not want that either. If You wanted to do so, then you would have to equip the Austrian federal army with at least medium-term funds in the area of 3, 4, 5 billion euros, then we would also be able to acquire, for example, heavy weapons – that is a disaster for our army! [[Federal Minister Tanner: That's where you made sure we don't have one! You know that very well, Mr Deputies.]] Switzerland has 700 tanks – 700! –, Sweden 600. We have 300, and I do not want to know exactly how many of them are actually operational. And you are presenting us with investment programmes where you are looking forward to the acquisition of buses and similar things. [[Federal Minister Tanner: We need them too!]] There we are in another movie. In our film, that of the liberals, we want a army capable of fulfilling its main task, the military national defense. The Greens don't want that, and you don't want it. It would be honest to sit down and say: Okay, we don't want that. We want a army that makes cyber, disaster protection and relief services, but we do not want a military force for military national defence because we do not equip the army with the appropriate resources. The military state defense is not so important for the Austrian federal army now. This is a serious strategic mistake, especially in the geopolitical security environment in which we move. I hope we don't pay the bill for it once, just as we are now paying the bill for breaking up the health care system and the hospital system. We could have used the hospital infrastructure wonderfully now – everything broken. I don't want us to pay the bill sometime for breaking the military in the military defense.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39185	As the next speaker, Member Rudolf Silvan has spoken. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39210	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Social democracy is fully in favour of the Republic of Austria running the military history museum, but it should meet the requirements of the 21st century. ==References== The Court of Auditors examined the military history museum from August to November 2019, and numerous shortcomings and shortcomings occurred in the administration: Details of the own financial event for the years 2014 to 2018 were not comprehensible and available, the revenue from admission fees and the number of paid visitors could not be clearly demonstrated, not to mention the right-wing radicals within the staff of the Army History Museum. Mrs. Federal Minister, I wonder why the Director of the Army History Museum is still in office and dignity. Why is not only a human being, but also an organizational restart planned at the HGM? I would ask you to act quickly because these conditions are not portable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My previous speakers have already said that Cyberdefence is the challenge of the 21st century. ==References== On the one hand, there is the information and communication technology in the Austrian Federal Army, in which part of the cyberdefence is located, on the other hand there is the cybersecurity centre, which is based with Cyberdefence, and there is also a cyber station with about 60 people who are located in the army or in the armed forces. From well-informed circles one now hears why these three organizational units are not bundled – obviously in the way of party policy reasons. Mrs Bundesminister, if this is really the case, I am trying to avoid making the same mistake as your ÖVP colleagues in the Ministry of the Interior for 20 years: Do not risk the security of Austria due to party-political, tactical considerations! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39258	Next speaker: Mr. Ing. May. Volker Tireberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39282	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! The Federal Army budget for the coming year 2021 is again to use the vocabulary of an earlier President of the National Council, Mr Andreas Khol, a sounding blow for our soldiers, but also for the security of our country. I understand that you, Mrs Bundesminister, naturally want to sell it differently in the public. In the meantime, however, you have been in office for a few months, and you should be aware of the problem of sub-financing of the federal army. I'm sure it's true to you, too. The lack of will to give the Federal Government the means that it really needs, but I do not, first of all, personally blame you, Mrs Federal Minister, but in truth, Chancellor Kurz and Minister of Finance Blümel. But to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, I agree that you do not stand up against your own party friends, do not rush on the table, do not forcefully demand those means that the federal army needs. Your party friends should meet you once! If you had a political backbone, you wouldn't take into account your own political career, but you would rise up loud against your party friends for our federal army. Lead as a succeeding party soldier But they are without resistance to the orders from the Chancellor's office and are adapting the federal army to the lack of budget. They therefore place party-political interests on those of your own place of business and on those of our country. In fact, you know very well that with this budget of the huge investment backlog only cosmetically can be castrated. They also know that without mandatory military exercises, the constitutional state of our federal army cannot be made. They also know that without heavy weapons, the main constitutional task of military defence cannot work. And you also know that even today – and all the more so from next year when the Saab 105 will no longer fly – active airspace surveillance is no longer guaranteed around the clock. Although you know all this, you make good ant a bad game. Your great happiness is that you have hardly any resistance to overcome within your resort. Part of the soldiers are used to carrying out orders without critically questioning them or at least keeping their criticisms behind the mountain, and another part of the soldiers, especially your consultants with general staff course, often presents their own personal career plans on state political responsibility. If I look at the Federal Financial Framework Act with the falling budgets 2023 and 2024, then one thing is clear: [[Federal Minister Tanner: That is not true at all! It will be every year...! You have said the same thing, Mr Deputies.]] With this budget, the German army will not even find its way out in its present outdated form, let alone be able to take a positive step forward. They'll cut down on our federal army, property and weapons systems, turn it into a slightly armed technical relief plant. [[Interference of Federal Minister Tanner.]] – Mrs Federal Minister, you are welcome to speak again. Maybe you'll let me talk! [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Federal Minister Tanner) He does not understand you if you...!]] They will make a staff reserve that is good enough for measuring fever, for corona testing, for streamlining and for walking on the strand and is good enough to help the police in troublesome tasks. In addition, there are a few pioneers, so that the heads of state are happy and satisfied, and prestigious foreign missions, so that German Chancellors can give up short international. That's what it was. That's all this government wants. – Land defense ade!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39346	There are no more words available to me now. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[14:02:09]] UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39380	We now reach subdivisions 33, economy (research), as well as 40, economy. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr Christoph Matznetter came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39407	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! I already know that you want the next episode of the dear series “Pleen-, Pech- und Pannendienst”, and I also understand that the laypersons in the Austrian Federal Government would like to acquire the same cult status as Mister Bean, but we cannot always offer the prized voters the same program. That is why I have thought for today that we are going to use the budget debate on economics – economics is that part of our society that is collapsing just because of Corona – to continue the popular folklore series that Peter Pilz has made from this speaker's desk, namely the special specimens in the fauna of the Austrian political landscape. At that time it was the excursion over the ÖVP salad roof, if I remember correctly. That was an interesting contribution, namely to trying to eat sausage and claim that you eat only salad. In the meantime, the Ibiza Research Group has supported a number of new findings on this copy: If I donate you, you hear me, dear beast, or something like that, from those who pay. In this part there are other aspects, and we should talk about them. So far, this black salad roof has rarely been seen in its mating behavior with the small green vegan dample. So in Western Austria, in the alpine highlands, there have already been such things, but what we have found this year was that two things have happened: The black salad roof is mutated. The ÖVP salad roof is suddenly turquoise, and it has got tiny green speckles in this year. You don't normally see it, but because Turquoise and green beat, there's interference, and that's why you see the green speckles. So, and now he is spiriting all over Austria. However, the mutation is not unproblematic, ladies and gentlemen. There are a lot of species in the world that keep very reasonable winter sleep. Why? – If there is little to eat and thus no energy, they sleep, and clean like the marmots they then stand up in the spring and continue. But this turquoise ÖVP salad roof with the green sprenkels has kept a summer sleep, a summer sleep where he has forgotten that there is an epidemic in the rest of the fauna. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Now it's fad!]] [[Congratulations to Mr Eypeltauer and Mr Loacker.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Unfortunately, the concepts we needed have fallen asleep. The drawers they're supposed to be in are jamming. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Something must have happened, because now we have a second lockdown, and the government is there as if it had heard for the first time in their life of Corona and the problems of the economy. It's incredible! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Then one tries to imitate the Germans because they were faster with the 75 percent turnover refund, but has no ready concept. Then it turns out: The arms trade is open, the hairdressers can visit home while travel agencies do not have to close – to do what? To wait for the next guest in 2021? Or only so that they are excluded from the subsidies? The indirectly concerned won't get anything. While the Christkindl market standkeepers get 80 percent, the one who delivers that, for which they would once pay the rent, namely the stand and the furniture, gets nothing at all. This is the state, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Ehrlich, Federal Minister: Maybe the summer sleep is nice, too. I just think the turquoise dample with the green spouts has chosen the wrong season. It would have been better to work intensively over this summer, to have concepts for the D-Day ready to take care of everyone so that, when it's so far, they won't go down. Unfortunately, I still see black – not turquoise-green – and black for our businesses, because, unfortunately, it does not work at all as it works now. And honestly, This budget does not make it any better, Mrs Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39469	The next speaker is Mr Peter Haubner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39493	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter, I would like to return from the fable world to the real world of the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, we are dealing with the budget for 2021 and now the economic chapter, and we all know that in Austria we have a very busy economic situation – as in Europe and all over the world, we are not an exception – but I think we have put a lot of action in this situation correctly, and many measures are also taking. We have known that there is a need for improvement in one measure or another, and we are always trying to optimize it. So I think if you look at the sum of the measures we support the economy, then you will see that in Austria we are in the absolute top line in Europe. When we talk to entrepreneurs outside, we know that the support has already arrived for many. [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true at all!]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, with these packages of measures, from short work to fixed-cost subsidies to revenue replacement, we have tied up a bundle of measures that also depicts the diversity of Austrian entrepreneurship, so that everyone can be involved in this crisis. Of course, there is something to say about the budget itself. The economic chapter is one that is very important and also includes measures such as increases in economic promotion, increases in digitisation. Digitalization is a very important point, and we have planned 80 million euros for the years 2021 and 2022 respectively, in order to further expand our management position in the eGovernment, where we are very well positioned across Europe, and on the other hand to make improvements to the ministries. So this too is an important investment. The third is an investment in the public sector. The high ranking of the main group of citizens is also an essential point, because it will be available to 30 million more in 2021 and 35 million more in 2022 in order to make certain investments, which will then benefit the regional economy again. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a very weak speech!]] We all know it's not easy, but it won't be better if we constantly just criticize. I think it is a question of holding a close to the shoulder, because together we have brought Austria into the position we were in before the crisis, and I think we should come back there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Minister, please stay at the heart of the course as far as digitisation and the measures for the Austrian economic location are concerned. We support you in this – and thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39568	The next speaker is Mr Erwin Angerer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39593	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the fable world, which Mr Matznetter has described, is not so far from reality, Mr Haubner. What have we experienced since spring, since the beginning of the crisis? What have companies experienced since spring since the start of the crisis? “Taste it what it wants,” it said, and: “Whoever helps quickly helps twice.” But what was reality? – We remember: For payments from the hardness fund, companies have had to fight through a bureaucracy and jungle, so that at the end of the day they get 500 euros, which on the other hand the tax advisor needed for the application. So that was the first quick help the entrepreneurs have felt in this country. We have the situation that industries are completely different. Indeed, industries are doing well, they have better orders and even a better year than the Years before. However, it is difficult for other industries to do so, which unfortunately leaves them in the rain, which can't do it, they have been closed by this government. They were deprived of the Epidemic Law as the basis for a corresponding compensation they had had, and then they were labeled alms. This is the reality that companies in this country unfortunately have to experience. The companies survived the lockdown of spring, then it finally went up again with the economy, but unfortunately it is that this government has slept over the summer – all the preparatory measures that would have been necessary for the economy were not taken. Mr Matznetter referred to the model Germany and said quite correctly: One makes 80 percent of the costs available to the companies and unfortunately again very many companies simply forget about this solution. The whole supply industry and many service sectors fall through the rust and get nothing again. This is now this 80 percent support, with 80 percent of nothing unfortunately being nothing, so that unfortunately does not help them at all. For months now, Mr Blümel has not been able to conclude an agreement with the EU to ensure that the phase two fixed-cost grant finally gets under way. So it's just a fact and shows what's happening. Everything else does not correspond to reality, so we want to help them with a corresponding request. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm seeking approval. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39802	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Dr. Jakob Schwarz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39826	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I'll be right there. Budget 2021 coming. But since the opposition is always happy to talk about the previous budget, the 2020 budget, it says: Emergency aid is the best example of the government trying to help as quickly as possible. For the purposes of: Whoever helps quickly helps twice!, the emergency aid is exactly what you would ask for. They say: 80 percent of nothing is nothing either. – The basis for calculating the emergency aid is the turnover of November 2019, so you should have made zero sales there so that your bill is correct, Mr. Angerer. But now, briefly, to the priorities in the budget, because this is what it is supposed to be today. I believe that the budget in UG 33 and 40 represents what the government has chosen as an access to the budget, i.e. the security of businesses – for which, I believe, the hardness fund is representative – combined with the attempt to invest in the crisis – for which the investment premium, the majority of the increase in the budget, represents – and at the same time the introduction of this transformation of the economy towards the future sectors and areas of the future, such as the 18 million euro participation in the Ipcei for microelectronics. The investment premium, too, has a certain share of this transformation idea due to its control effect. The hardness fund was, of course, an important support for companies. It's not like you said that only a little bit has arrived, but it's very much arrived. As of October, 600 million euros have already been paid in bridging aid, of which 130 million euros have been paid in the first emergency aid, in the first week, when 1 000 euros have been paid per company. Now another 200 million euros are budgeted for the next budget, and that is a good thing. But if it gets out of the crisis again, of course it needs investment. These are a central economic engine, which will stimulate value added and create jobs. If the outlook gets better again when the investments are attracting again, it is important that almost all the investments held back in the crisis are guided in the right direction. The investment premium contributes to this. This will make the crisis an opportunity, as more investment in climate protection, life sciences and digitization is going on than would normally have been the case in the normal period. This steering also seems to succeed: Of the 44 000 applications for the investment premium, 18 000 are applications for eco-investment, 40 percent of the applications. I am particularly pleased that small and small enterprises in particular want to benefit from this investment premium. 63 percent of the applications come from micro-enterprises, which is about 40 percent of the volume. A supplement with which I probably do not make friends or not just friends here concerns the promotion of climate-friendly technologies. This is a good thing and is also largely approved. I believe that the least is against the investment premium, but the truth is – this is also a recent Boku study – that it also needs ex-novation, that is, we have to remove the old fossil technologies from the market. This investment premium also contributes by excluding these old fossil technologies from the premium. It is precisely these two incentives that need to be promoted, but also this move to get the necessary turn. In this case, the foundation stone has already been laid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39884	Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39908	Mr President. Minister! Christoph Matznetter, you are of course completely wrong in your fable world. Hylax, the dog, is faithful, careless, friendly and kind. It's the hen, it's the hen's scratch; it's vain, simple and anxious. [[Abg. Obernosterer: What is the Schellhorn?]] That's great! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Don't be afraid! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] That's why it's all right. When I look at the objectives of action there are: There are four points, yes, we want to stimulate the external economy, we want to strengthen SMEs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] – We have read that in 2017. This is a budget with objectives of effect that have nothing to do with 2021 and the challenges. The challenges, the external economy and the SMEs, we have every year, these are no-na-effect targets, and I think that's what it's all about. Mrs Minister, your objective of action should be: We have to keep work, and we have to do work. These include a few features. This includes an economic programme that has been washed. From me, you'll build schools today and tomorrow before you build any streets! In your place of business, which has already been circumcised, you have been taken away a lot. When I read that there are 2.5 to 5 million euros each year for digitalisation in SMEs – for example, Amazon in a quarter of an hour – and we want to produce this as a performance, I am ashamed that we are so far behind. If we are already so far behind in the school sector – as I read yesterday – that the virtual classes are online, but those who are in the class cannot log in, then we know we have a massive digital problem, and you want to strengthen by 2.5 million euros of SMEs at the same time. I believe that this fable world of the Henne is very simple and clear in this budget. What is it about now, what do we have to do? - We need to get through the winter now. To get through the winter, we also need a certain degree of planning security for all entrepreneurs, not only for tourism. Köstinger and Blümel said very well yesterday and very clearly what I have said all summer: If tourism dies, the carpenter dies too! It is now important to do everything to protect the small and medium-sized enterprises in the craft sector – the installer and all the others – or to help them get over the winter because the investment activity will decline. It will be dramatic if the banks say already today: If we do nothing now to preserve liquidity, if we do nothing now to help businesses get under a shield, then we will – the banks say – have 30 billion euros in lazy loans. This, in turn, becomes a problem for the government. And if you don't do anything to work for something about investment banks and support programmes in the long term, we'll have this problem. The next problem is that these investment support programmes, these support programmes, are really good – I have to praise you too – only what helps if I get investment support and then wait for six months for approval? There's the investment now before I can do it. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: Ten days!]] To narrow the state apparatus or make it faster is therefore one of your main tasks. One question still exists: We have had a problem with the AUA, and this problem will not be off the table. I would like answers to that. What happens to the AUA now? Will she come again with new demands? [[Abg. Kassinger: Lockdown two!]] The AUA concept presented to you was a best-case scenario and not a worst-case scenario. However, we are now expecting the worst-case scenario, and I also want clear answers as to whether this money will continue to be pumped into the AUA or whether it may be used elsewhere, namely to support small and medium-sized enterprises. That would be very important. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To the state apparatus and to these future projects: I would have liked you to present in your sub-dividual a draft budget which is a forward-looking one that is invigorating the economy, investing in those areas where, like digitisation, we have been having problems for decades, investing in those areas where massive problems have occurred in the past. It's de facto a patch that you put on a huge flesh wound, and that can't be it. Above all, we expect a courageous announcement of what happens to small and medium-sized enterprises, which protection measures you are taking, because we must come by June 2021. Let's say this: The corona virus did not fall from the sky, and on 9 May, it was discovered that the corona virus did not fall from the sky. He won't disappear in hell on December 7. That's one of the striking points, because we heard it yesterday: ==References====External links==* Official website December will be over. For this we need clear, courageous statements – those of the hen or that of the dandelion. I would very much like that of the Dark!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e39995	Mrs Bundesminister Dr.in Margarete Schramböck is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40016	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! I am not responding to the comparisons with different animals now. I like the hen, I like the dog, but I think we should focus in the current crisis on how difficult it is and how many companies in this crisis are experiencing really difficult times. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] After all, it is the biggest world economic crisis that we have experienced in this room and the people who watch at home. It's the biggest crisis, and it's not just about our health. Today is a very sad day: There are 100 dead within 24 hours. This is a sad day in Austria, and it is also sad for many businesses how they are doing. Believe me, I'm sorry for the businesses, my heart is bleeding with the businesses, but at the same time it's our responsibility to work to bring the companies through this crisis as best they can. It is also our task to maintain prosperity in Austria, social stability to which many in other countries envy us, and above all one important thing is: I would remind you that we are the country that is able to give people the most help per capita. No other European country, not even Germany, is able to do so. We can be proud that we can support our companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now it is our job to set the right course, and you will find it – and now I go to the budget – clearly illustrated in the budget of my department next year. There is hardly any resort that has such an increase, we have doubled the budget to EUR 1.24 billion. I think that is a clear and strong sign for the economic location. The economic reconstruction must have different priorities, as you are quite right. There is a need for very different measures, a package of measures, so there is the EUR 50 billion. We have set very specific priorities for the economy. More important now than ever is the digital transformation, because it makes companies more resilient, makes them more sustainable and makes them better through future crises. They have referred to the necessary investments themselves. Thank you for carrying these too. The investment premium must also be extended, this week it will be treated again. I would like to thank Parliament for its support for this investment premium, which is particularly important now to provide an incentive for companies to get their plans out of the drawers, because they are doing so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yeah, I'm right to tell you that it's also our job to eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy. I give you an example because you mentioned the issue of the investment premium: The commitment takes place in about 10 days. It's fully digital, it's going to be completely digital at the AWS, and they can only do that because they started a digital program three years ago. They have provided for them, otherwise they would never be able to deal with the number of requests made by NGOs and the EPCs they now have to deal with. So it takes a few days, and if the investment premium is increased with your support, then we can also go out quickly with the promises. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Leave You are now addressing me to the topic of digital transformation! Why is that so important? It is therefore so important because it concerns all companies in Austria and has a high potential, namely the potential to create at least 20 000 jobs per year in Austria. It also allows for an increase in gross domestic product. If we increase digital skills among all – from the apprentice to those looking for a new job – this is also an important key for the economic location. I would like to address the Digitalisation Fund briefly because it is new and aims precisely at what you say: State must become easier, state must become more digital, state must be accessible, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. For this reason, the 160 million euro digitalisation fund is an important centrepiece of work on topics such as once only, on issues such as easy access to the official roads for the people living in Austria as well as for the companies in Austria. That's what we'll do: To reduce bureaucracy, to relieve it and to become more digital as a state. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The incentives for the investment premium are reflected in the budget for this year, but also in the budget for the next year and the following year. Let me give you an overview: On the 1st day of the year. In November, 35 219 applications were received. EUR 20.3 billion in investment and a grant of EUR 2 billion already granted. As I said, The next billion of the investment premium is expected. Of these investments, 87 percent are approved – that is already very, very much, more than 50 percent. The control towards ecologisation and digitization also works because the two things are very closely connected. Let me quote IHS Chief Martin Kocher, who is content with the following: The investment premium is very good, even better than thought. It provides stability. Without the investment premium, many projects would have remained in the drawer. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, let me address the training of skilled workers, because the issue of skilled workers will not simply disappear through the corona virus: The topic of professionals is now here, which also signals me to the companies. By the way: The companies that operate internationally signal that they have orders that – unlike in the first lockdown – the value chains and the boundaries are open to me that this is a very important factor. They know how many small businesses hang on the Austrian companies. So that's very, very important. In order to counter this shortage of skilled workers, we have set up the apprenticeship bonus. You see him in the corresponding budget. Our goal was to support the beginners and the companies with the apprentices. Originally, it was thought to be minus 30 percent – now it is minus 8 percent. This too is too much, but we have many of the apprentices in the overcompany teaching and will be able to take them into the establishments by the end of March. There is my call to all Austrian companies to use it and to look into this over-company teaching: There are good young people who want to work in the farms. I ask you to support me, take these apprentices into the businesses! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address another point: We have also increased the construction budget, which is also seen in the budget that I am responsible for. It contains something about the expansion of the zoo. Now some could say: What do you need that for? Why is that necessary right now? Do you need this walk now? – Yes, it is important for the location Austria – especially for Vienna and the surroundings of Vienna – because the Coronavirus will pass by, the tourists will come back to us, they will come back to Vienna, and there they want to find the best zoo in the world, which he is now. 800 SMEs depend on this zoo each year. This is a beautiful and good ecosystem that we also support with this budget. The small projects are also illustrated. Building is important, and we can also build with this budget – that is just as secure. We want to strengthen the location and future of Austria and, of course, support and secure every job in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40144	The next speaker is Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40168	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. Minister, I have to tell you, you're doing a great job, and we can be proud in Austria. It is incredible how well-founded your knowledge is and what measures you take. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's where I have to say quite honestly: The opposition could be happy if it had such people in its ranks. [[Abg. Worm: The colleagues in the economy will see this differently!]] Honestly, from a business point of view, I have to say: This budget for the economy is excellent and great. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Like the Gerstl!]] Mr Schellhorn: No matter what we do – once in a while you have an approach and praise once, and then you don't even see the investment premium, which valleys and with which we - - - - yes, but in the second sentence you have already criticized that we do nothing for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Here I am!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: I said yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Not in the budget!]] That's just not right. The investment premium – you see it very well – is a great one: 60 percent for micro and small enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Quite honest: In this quality, this is an investment turbo, a turbo for our working world and our economy. This has been great success for our wife's minister – a great thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Thank you, Sebastian...!]] [[Abg. Smoke: Say thanks again!]] In the field of sustainability and digitalization, very, very much is happening. You also know: In the case of the investment premium, this promotion is a great one. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Total: Every billion we enter will add 10 billion, and they will help us in the future. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is this cabaret or is it real?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] A very great thank you – thank God we have managed so well in recent years, so that we can do so now, in this difficult time. [[Abg. Belakovich: Thank God!]] The economy needs it. Once again – I hope that everyone in this room will come along. [[Abg. Matznetter: Thank you twice for not giving a premium, Mr Colleague! Thank you again, then you'll get it!]] From time to time, Mr Matznetter, I believe that you do not read the documents, because if you were to look at the budget, you would also have to say thank you and complain about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40417	The next speaker is Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40441	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated colleague Pöttinger! With all due regard to Mrs Minister, I think I can say on behalf of the entire opposition [[Abg. Singer: That can only exceed more of the horns!]] We're very glad she's with you and not with us. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a community!]] I think that in the sense of a good discussion we have other things to discuss than pure lobbying – but you will already know, perhaps you have a lot of things within. That was the intercession today. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Mr. Pöttinger also needs his strichers!]] Mrs Minister, I think a budget in the crisis must be able to do three things: Firstly, it must save jobs and businesses. For this you have decided on a number of points and measures which are consistently good. I'm not afraid to stress that too. We voted in favour. Finally, however, a very, very big mistake happened at the beginning of this crisis, namely: They took out the epidemic law for small and medium-sized enterprises, and that was a mistake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Secondly, You have to secure income in a crisis. They did not do so to the extent that we wished. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schramböck.]] You have postponed the tax reform, and you put another blow on the performance providers yesterday with the abolition of the hacker regime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] Thirdly, A budget in the crisis must compensate for the loss of private investment with public investment. We need to strengthen purchasing power. I simply do not understand why you do not see the communities as a partner to the extent that they could be – by giving them more by replacing them with the total share of income, because that is what they will need for investment in our country. [[Abg. Hear: A billion, Mr. Lercher!]] Mrs Minister, what I notice and what I think is dangerous is that you do not actively perceive the role of the state in the form of participation societies. We now need the state in the form of equity companies, as they exist in Germany and Vienna, in order to create change in industry and economy – according to ecological and social criteria. We would also have needed this participation at ATB in Spielberg. They were quickly ready to loosen millions for site security in your constituency, but also in other constituencies we would have needed this support and this commitment. [[Abg. Hear: Where?]] That is why I ask you to take part in this change through the participation of the State. This would be progressive, active labour market policy, and we will call for it by social democracy and will stress it everywhere, because it needs it for jobs and the economy in that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40549	Mrs Dr.in Elisabeth Götze is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40573	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! Dear High House and valued Seers! I would like to briefly give you three examples of innovation, of innovative projects – companies in Austria. The first is the SolOcean Floater, which are fluid-like photovoltaic systems that operate wind and weather-resistant on every water and generate energy. The second is Green Sentinel. They are recycled from waste, from sewage sludge, the valuable raw materials, for example phosphorus, and the rest becomes biofuel. The third example – perhaps you have heard it before – is Spirulix, a young company that focuses on the production of spirulin algae and in recent years has also researched a lot in this area in order to make this sustainable, with little energy and water use. Spirulin algae are today as superfood, but have long known that they have a lot of valuable nutrients. The algae are produced in Lower Austria in an algae farm. I could hardly believe it when I visited the company: an algae farm between the fields of the farmers of the area, a very innovative algae production in Austria, which is now also very successful internationally and also the compost of the farmers of the environment for energy production. This shows: Austrian entrepreneurs are very innovative and have a great innovation power. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Precisely; thank you. We are number eight in the European Innovation Scoreboard, are a strong innovator. There's a lot of things going well, otherwise it wouldn't be possible. But there is also a lot to be improved, and I would like to talk about it now. The Minister has already referred to it: The first important thing is the digital transformation. This crisis in particular shows how important this is and that we need to support companies, including the continued intensive broadband expansion. Secondly, more focus is needed on applied basic research: The Ipcei – Important Projects of Common European Interest – can be mentioned in this context, for example, in which we want to invest not only in batteries and microelectronics, but also in methods for reducing CO2 consumption. Third point – very important –: We need more risk capital, i.e. money invested in interesting projects such as the ones mentioned above, so that these small companies can grow, quickly market and market products. There are, as it were, alternatives to the savings book. This requires legal framework conditions, so that pension funds, for example, would also invest in these projects. The runway fund we all are waiting for falls below, where the state is supposed to take part of the risk. [[Call at the FPÖ:This is not Austria at all!]] Next point: a foundation-friendly environment. This begins with advice from companies – especially in the initial phase, in the preseed phase – but also affects legal framework conditions. Start-ups wish for a new form of society. Where this leads us, we'll see. Austrian Limited is in intensive discussion in the context, and there are international models. I would like to address one last point: Education, in various areas, such as how to become an entrepreneur, entrepreneurs. You can discuss this already in school and be attractive, so it becomes interesting for small children. This is also true with regard to the financial situation. I've already talked about the savings book. This is not the only way to make money, but there are other, meaningful alternatives. Summary: I am convinced that we are on a good way to create attractive jobs in Austria that we can put the know-how that is absolutely available in Austria into interesting products. This can and will also make businesses competitive and contribute to solving our problems today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40619	Mr Walter Rauch came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40643	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I start my speech with no thanks, as the government parties always spread very, very impulsively, but – to speak in the language of the Minister of Defence –: Mrs. Federal Minister, you have the economic budget that has been collapsing in this state. Why did you collapse the economy in that state? [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Because You've caused the second lockdown. They have adopted measures which are unrealistic or disproportionate in the final effect or in the context at least in that country. To do this, you have shot the economy together, and this is a crime against society and the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can also justify: Mr Haubner also spoke very strongly of thanks, thank you, thank you, demands a close-up to the economic problems of the whole world and Europe – and, and, That's where you demand an shoulder clasp. If you make an shoulder closure with you: It's not just that you're holding your shoulder – you need an emergency op or even an amputation in this area, because you're putting in the final effect measures that are beyond and outside of reality. [[Interim remark by Federal Minister Schramböck]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This investment fund with the 2 billion euros that you have so greatly announced – talk to the small businessman who is now making a request about what waiting loop it ends up in! It goes completely beyond reality. Entrepreneurs don't get anything. I ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: Stocks Open this investment fund! This is what entrepreneurs need – and not announcements of how great and great everything is, and thank you, thank you, thank you. That's too little. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The next topic: They're talking about digitization. Our children are sitting in schools with a distance learning system. When the child is in school, 97 times the computer fails and it cannot follow the lessons. It's better at home. So you still have faults and nothings! I would therefore ask you: Go to work in this area, don't keep mutual thanks! - That's too little. People do not expect this either, but people expect actions that will be implemented in a sustainable way, and decisions that support and help the economy, entrepreneurs and, above all, people at home. These measures will not be taken by you. The statement by Federal Minister Anschober alone says: Okay, if we don't have a vaccine, it's all up to 15. - Yes, it's closed! [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: He didn't say that...!]] – Sure he said that! Listen to what he said in the media, at Pulse 24! [[New call of the abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] So quite honestly: I expect concrete statements. They're heking from a press conference to the next, and that's too little. Give clear messages once and make clear, concrete measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40723	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Minnich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40754	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectator at home! The economic budget 2021 will be a budget of EUR 602 million higher than that of the previous year. This increase to more than doubles is due in particular to Covid-19 measures in the field of economic promotion, such as the EUR 200 million hardening fund and the EUR 400 million investment premium. In addition, there is for the first time a donation of €80 million in the digitisation fund to modernise our economic infrastructure. The current crisis limits many entrepreneurs and companies. The situation is extremely tense worldwide. With the turnover replacement of up to 80 percent and our short work model in addition to the fixed cost grant, we have the most extensive and best aid package internationally. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Turnover in November helps quickly, and: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. We will fight out of this world-class crisis with the measures put forward by the Federal Government, of which I am convinced – but an appeal to the opposition: Keeping together, we pay attention to our local business and we support our regional companies! Please we buy locally and we all keep together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40797	The next speaker is Mr Helmut Brandstätter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40821	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We all know the very successful company Biontech now at least by name. We're waiting for her to put a wonderful product on the market and we're going to be vaccinated. The best thing about the company is the address, isn't it? – At the gold pit 12. I would, of course, like the ladies and gentlemen to say that they hopefully make a lot of money because they have done a very hard job – we know that too. I noticed that the reports have always written: There are two Turks in there. – This has been particularly emphasized as if it were something special. These were two people, a man, and a woman who researched together with others. I've already said it here: Anyone who has once read stallion racket knows that racism is particularly depressing. After all, there are not failed and stupid peoples, but these are people who have done great research and who – which is also important – have been very strongly supported by the state. Now we are at an essential point: We certainly also have great researchers in Austria, but the problem is that support is always promised, but it is too little. What the Germans have done – 750 million euros of funding for three projects – was very important. Currently we are watching this race between Biontech and Moderna, hope that both produce successful vaccines, and look forward to it. In addition, we are still saying, because we compare Austria with Germany: Today I have looked at the figures again – in Austria we are at 7,091 infected, in Germany at 17,500. Apart from the fact that I have always found this race unsympathically – we are the best, we have less, et cetera –: We are the worst, and we should at least talk about being the worst and what went wrong. And I have already succeeded in science and, of course, also in digitization and the data, because obviously we have worked badly with the data, have persecuted too badly where the infections come from, and in this respect, of course, a lot has to be recovered. – First of all, that is the first point. The second is: Why don't we also have these great companies? We've been talking about this Austrian Private Equity Fund for many years, but it still doesn't exist. There is too little investment in risk capital. Although I speak with the representatives of the Vienna Stock Exchange, they always draw my attention to this: Yes, we are talking to the government anyway, and that should somehow be better, but concrete actions will not follow then. Furthermore, and now I would very urgently ask you to pay attention, Mrs. Federal Minister: [[Federal Minister Schramböck speaks to Abg. Sobotka]] The colleagues from the ÖVP are currently making a bit of a joke about the NEOS ruling in Vienna. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: Look at what great agreements have been reached in Vienna, especially for business and research! In the fields of environmental research, precision medicine, digital humanism and artificial intelligence, Vienna is to be expanded into one of Europe's leading research and innovation metropolises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka.]] Please tell your party friends: You can look at the various chapters, which is also fine, but everything in terms of economy and research is great. The Federation, the Republic of Austria, will benefit from the fact that there will have been some progress in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Sobotka: Economics! Economically!]] Now I come to the next point – and this is very important to me: Mrs. Federal Minister, I asked other members of the Federal Government about digitization and 5G. You know as a truly qualified expert and can also explain to us here how essential 5G is, even if you, I think, are not responsible in detail – the responsibilities are sometimes confusing. In any case, 5G is important because people can talk to each other in real time and share data – machines will also exchange data with machines. That is, for the location that is repeatedly addressed, it is extremely important that we are well positioned at 5G. The next question, however, is: Who are we doing that with? I asked several members of the Federal Government: Huawei – yes or no? I think there must be a clear answer at some point. Mrs Köstinger's answer was: Well, if they can spy on us, then don't. – Yes, there is the investment law from China from 2017, and it is clearly regulated that a Chinese company must provide all data and content if the state forces it to do so. Because you are waiting for a good book recommendation: “Stealth War” is a completely new book by an American Air Force General, who analyses in detail how dangerous it can be for us if we surrender to the Chinese. [[Keeping that book in height]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] I am the last one who says we should not trade with them, quite the contrary – but at eye level, and we need to know what we are buying. I would really like an answer – yes or no – but, of course, this has to be agreed at European level, and I would be interested in whether that is the case. To conclude: I didn't mean to insult Mr. Orbán yesterday, but I said he was once a Communist boy, and people wrote to me that it wasn't at all right. So I looked at the biography written by Paul Lendvai: He was a youth who was the secretary of the Communist Youth in his school, so he was a Communist youth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] The essential point, however, is: Today, her party friend Othmar Karas called for him to be excluded from the EPP. I would also expect an official answer to this question: Is this finally happening? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] I think it would be an essential step. I hope that we will return to a normal relationship with Hungary. I hope that Hungary will recognise the rule of law again, but I also expect the ÖVP to significantly increase the pressure on Orbán. [[Calls of Deputies Wurm and Hafenecker.]] Finally, because we have talked about the Austrian economy: Please buy You just before Christmas books at the Austrian bookshops. You can also buy any book online from an Austrian bookstore. They have, I know, benefited from a few smaller and larger bookshops in recent months and have really driven digitalisation forward, and they are to be praised for that. Please support them! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40912	Mr Johann Höfinger is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40936	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is not just a simple time to link a budget in the field of economy. The time is extraordinary and dramatic, it poses many real obstacles, but in recent months we have managed – and this is very important – to provide emergency assistance, to support people in their economically very difficult, indeed dramatic situation with the hard-hit system, the investment programmes and much more. It has also been shown that it is not the Ministry of Economic Affairs alone, but that all ministries – labour, social affairs and health – actually have to act, keep together and work together. This has been well documented in the recent past, because it is not only about accompanying the entrepreneurs themselves, but also about securing the jobs behind it. It is about giving perspectives to young people who are currently growing into the world of work. All this, I think, we started. The second, however, is: We must now also invest in the future. They have made this excellent in the field of digitalization, because it is currently also necessary to implement as quickly as possible changes in our work processes. If you listen to some opposition speakers, you think Austria is in a bubble. No, we face huge international challenges that we have to face, and we also need to work together internationally. Austria is not only required, but can only do so in the international context. I can only support the appeal of my predecessor: Please buy They are not only books, but all that is possible, with our small and medium-sized companies – even in this pre-Christmas season – because we are all economics, and we document this through our political work, but also through personal purchasing behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40970	The next speaker is Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Petra Oberrauner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e40994	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What makes a normal economic operator responsible for its operation in a crisis? – He looks: How much money do I have, how much money do I need, where is my market where it breaks away for months, how much room do I have, what is my risk, and what can I risk to survive? In fact, this is also the guide to the provision of government funds. I very much appreciate the efforts of Mrs Minister. It is very detailed, it is often at the point, but life changes so dramatically quickly that it would probably be better to combine the funding measures and to ensure liquidity. If you say, We have provided such and so many million euros!, I have been the first to bother us, because you have not earned any cents of these millions, no single cent is ÖVP money. They should not thank the ministers who are doing a good job but the people who are funding this aid. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second is: They should urgently take care of liquidity and disbursements because the banks do not wait for what is provided. The banks want to see something coming. Many small and medium-sized enterprises fail to do so. The investment premium is certainly a very good measure, but I would like to say in the lockdown: The companies that invest expect a return of investment because they have to achieve what they invest in some way. If it is, then nothing will be generated, and then the best investment premium will not help because the entrepreneurs will no longer have the money to invest. The following is: The participation of the State is excessive. One should also take care of the return of investment as a state. How to become Do you make a budget in the future if you do not take taxes? Participation forms with corresponding participation in profits might also be a possibility to store and pick up a PPP project that is innovative. Perhaps with our innovative science and economy in Austria, we would have a chance to get back money. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Public investment projects, I have to say, let a little bit more wait for it. The promised billions of investment in climate protection, public transport and broadband expansion can only be seen in tiny steps in the budget. The digitalization offensive that is urgently needed – yes, you presented it to the Economic Committee: 160 million euros. The relation does not match the time axis. You have 80 million euros for the administration, which is good and beautiful, but in the administration to award an order – you know that yourself – takes months. If you really want to compete now, as you said in the Committee, I would ask you not to cut the economic budget by 17 percent in this area, but to provide 80 percent of the economy that can implement it immediately and leave 50 percent in the public sector because you have a longer time axis. On the subject of NEOS and Vienna I would like to say: Mayor and head of state Ludwig has done something that actually brings the whole thing to the fore. You said: ‘It costs what it wants.’ He said: Cost what it needs. – I think this is a big difference: Need is an active action by the population. Wanting is a provision you make, and the population has to wait for you. That's not all right. I'm leaning on Erwin Ringel: The most beautiful form of recognition is envy. This is one of the few things the Turkish party is also capable of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41051	Mrs Kaufmann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41078	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Above all: Dear entrepreneurs and employees at home! This debate on the budget is often very exciting: The opposition stands here and explains to us that everything is too little, too little fast and really much too late and should be much, much more. But as the very first thing – and this is the point – I would like to thank you once. For us entrepreneurs this year is not a simple year. Many have worked with their employees to develop new ideas, new concepts. Delivery services have been created, many have transferred their offers to the Internet and thus created new business models. Thank you all for taking this path and keeping our economy running in Austria during this difficult, challenging time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my view, this budget has two very important points: On the one hand, where it is necessary to invest in the future, namely in the field of dual vocational training, there is much planned. In terms of content, there will be significant changes in the economic sector in the coming years for dual vocational training and thus also for the specialists in Austria. Many support services were also tied in this direction in this year. As an apprentice speaker, I would also be allowed to say at this point: There are open teaching places in Austria. In Graz, at home, it's still around 250. Dear young people in Austria, please apply at the establishments! You are an important part of economic life in Austria. A second important part of the budget is digitisation. We have seen this year how necessary it is for us to invest in digitalization in our companies so that Austria is the future-fit location. That is why I can only congratulate this great budget. Together we continue the path of the Austrian site!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41130	Mr Kassager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41151	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Economy – this is a general place now – is psychology. Economy lives on expectations, economy lives on planning, economy lives on planning. The engine of the economy is, of course, the companies. Previously, Mr Matznetter mentioned the "summer sleep". That's what we see in the same way as the liberals. If already in the summer – and that was quite to be expected – the spread of the virus will worsen again, then the legitimate question arises: What have you done all summer except sleep? What have you done about preparatory measures in education and school policy? - Nothing! You slept. What have you done about preparatory measures in the field of health policy, on the capacity of hospitals et cetera? - Nothing! You slept. What have you done in economic policy? - Nothing! You slept. You have to make this accusation happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What to do You now? – You’re always talking about: We have to keep work now, we have to do work, that is our top goal. In the same breath you forbid the entrepreneurs and thus the job providers to work. I don't think that makes any sense. You lock the country in large parts, you block companies in many areas, you lock people in. So that's not a logical concept for me to live up to the goal of keeping work and creating work, but quite the contrary: I note with concern that we are on the way or in the middle of saying goodbye to a free/social market economy. We move with huge steps towards a plan economy based on empowerment laws and arranged by the law, which leads us further to Triple A, but not to the triple A that we want, but to the triple A of the alms, dependencies and unemployment. That's what we see with great, great concern. There are certainly measures that you have taken that we consider to be useful too, such as the investment premium or partial tax reductions. With the depreciations, this is one thing again: In reality, they only benefit if you are in the profit zone, and I want to doubt that this applies to many companies at the moment. The short work costs a lot of money, but: ‘It costs what it wants.’ We also like “cost what it needs” much better. “It costs what it wants” is a signal from the top tip, which basically means: The money has been abolished, and we're pouring out money now and we don't see what the effect is. I believe that the effect of short-term work is essentially a shift in the overall disaster in unemployment statistics. You can only move this, but at what price? – The price is very, very high. In my opinion, a particularly unfortunate scheme is only for part of the 80 % turnover. We heard before: That's completely incomplete. I also do not like the basic access to replace the loss of turnover. I don't know – maybe there is some ambiguity in terms of turnover, costs, results, loss et cetera. That costs a lot of money. But the money is there, and – that's my suspicion now – it has to be spent quickly. Where's the money? – With Mr Blümel, Minister of Finance. He has approved these 20 billion euros in the empowerment law. They must now be spent quickly because, obviously, the budgets provided for in the first aid that would have been urgently necessary have not arrived at Weitem. He's sitting on a huge pile of money, and the signal is: “It costs what it wants,” so let’s spend it! The German regulation with the 75 percent is much better, also that the short-time work payments must be deducted – no no – and the proceeds from the partial transactions are also included. It doesn't matter to us, it's thrown. I really have serious concerns, even if we look at our budget: next year, minus 23 billion euros. I have serious concerns, too, in that in the crisis, which is always an opportunity, these opportunities have not been used, in terms of the essential tasks that we should have done. No one would have prevented the government from addressing the structural reforms. No one in the government has looked at expenditure side by side: If you are in a crisis, you do not increase expenditure! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We are now discussing the budget for three days, and in virtually every subdividual, expenditure will be increased. If you are in the crisis, you expect to look at the expenditure and say: What is not necessarily necessary is that we will not be spending in the next and next year. [[Abg. Haubner:... invests!]] Nothing of which takes place because the money has been abolished, does not matter: ‘It costs what it wants.’ [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We are now at 350 billion euros in public debt. This is not a problem at the moment, because the interest rate is zero, but I warn, because that can become a huge, huge problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was actually the closing point. [[Rejoicing with representatives of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41226	Mr Christoph Stark is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41250	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should also like to mention briefly the subdivided economy, which is subject to criticism – this criticism is all right, that is part of parliamentarianism. It is assumed that those who act, especially the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also everyone else, are totally in line with the objectives of the budget, and that it is absolutely ineffective and ineffective. Allow me: I assume the government, Minister Schramböck and all the teams behind it that she pursues the goal of doing the best for our country in one of the greatest crises of humanity, in one of the greatest crises of our Republic! That's what I put under all the ministers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would also like to address one point here, because it is my concern: Mr Rauch von der FPÖ has accused Mrs Minister of a crime. He has said here that Mrs. Minister – literally – “gave up the economy.” – Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in turn, a choice of words which is basically to be rejected. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If I, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, with your attitude not to wear a mask in this House anywhere – in no room! – Look, then I have to say, so that you fuel the division of society, so you show: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] A bad FPÖler can't harm the virus, it doesn't take any danger! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] – This will fuel the division of society, and with it you also bear responsibility for the lockdown. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] [[Call to the ÖVP.]] You've got to be clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we now have to work on these consequences, and this is also the budget of the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I can only repeat once again the appeal of my colleagues Hoefinger and Brandtätter [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] You are now using the economy by consuming the domestic economy and saving the domestic economy with your consumption over this severe crisis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41360	Mrs Becher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41393	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter said today at the beginning of the debate that there are some drawers. I can say: The government's corona aids are marked by bad luck and pans. Active economic policy is needed, and active labour market policy is needed. In the budget only a stop of holes is planned, but in order to maintain prosperity, we must think of one or two steps in advance. To show how this happens, a reference to the research budget: There is less money in the financial framework than planned by 2024. [[Abg. Matznetter: Listen, hear!]] Instead of stopping holes, it needs an active plan for the future, and for that there are a lot of good ideas that are on the table. I have proposed that the Republic itself builds 150 000 dwellings in the next five years as a residential speaker of the government. The construction of these apartments would ensure thousands of jobs, he would allow the children of the Corona crisis as an opportunity to have a modern living space for their families, and no matter if the interest rates rise, whether they fall, there are definitely values that remain the same. The Republic would have 150 000 dwellings in its possession – that would be a real value. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I think you can also build apartments and not just sell them. I would like to remind you of the sale of the Bouwog, which sold 60 000 apartments that were owned by the Austrians at the time by 16 020 euros per apartment. Today they belong to a German speculator. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Do this again, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Building You beautiful new apartments for people as the SPÖ in Vienna does! This can be financed by the European Investment Bank, where there are free loans. By the way, the Wbib has already existed, but it has been abolished under the blue-black government, and that before a single apartment was built. Therefore, my appeal to you: Invest heavily in the crisis, create jobs – safe jobs – and provide the people with sustainable housing! This stimulates the economy and at the same time brings lasting values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41434	Mr Hintner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41455	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the pandemic it is true to fight every workplace, and the more painful are operating closures such as at Mayr-Melnhof in Hirschwang, MAN Steyr or ATB in Leoben. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] A key factor for an economic location is the political climate vis-à-vis entrepreneurs. As a member of the Baden/Mödling constituency, I find it frightening how recently one of the largest and most successful businesses in our region, namely Novomatic, is even criminalized by some parliamentarians. I think it is a scandal to have a worldwide successful operation with 3,500 jobs in Austria and more than 30 000 employees worldwide in the course of the Ibiza Investigation Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] A SPÖ that is going to demonstrate for jobs on one side is apparently not worth 3 500 jobs, dear Jan Krainer. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The originally liberalized NEOS do not support Novomatic Bashing and try everything to insure the employees, dear Mrs Stephanie Krischper – Krisper, thank you, Mrs Krisper – and I tell you one thing: [[Phone call at the NEOS]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Krisper!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Thank you!]] We can light a candle every day for being still in Gumpoldskirchen, not in China and not elsewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] – Thank you, Prof. Johann Graf.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41566	Mr Schroll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41587	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear spectators! Yeah, one thing's quite clear: We have been talking since yesterday, we are talking today and we are going to talk about a budget that will not exist in this way, which is on very rolling legs, and it is clear that, given the highest unemployment rates in the Second Republic, all in summary, including those in short work, well over 600 000 people in Austria, a courageous, strong economic package will be needed to strengthen the economy, but of course also, Mrs Minister, in order to create and maintain jobs. That's very, very important. It is also very important that not only areas are overlooked, and a very large area – actually the largest and economic engine in Austria – are the 2 095 municipalities. These communities, ladies and gentlemen, have been established since the 14th century. Unfortunately, the government parties here in the House forget God – forget this year and forget about the 2021 budget. The importance of the communities cannot be estimated to be high enough if one knows what the municipalities and their more than 200 000 employees are doing in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say one thing – my colleague Andi Kollross has already mentioned it a few times –: In the programme we have decided here, which we have also voted in favour of, the municipal investment programme, the Communal investment law – the helpless package, if you want to call it so – the figures show everything. We have looked at the figures two to three weeks ago, and to date only 42 million euros have been collected from 1 billion euros. This shows exactly what we said from the beginning: This EUR 1 billion does not reach the municipalities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Most municipalities have a negative financial peak and therefore cannot raise the money needed to co-finance the projects for which the federal government has made this EUR 1 billion available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner.]] I can only say that as mayor I have had the following experience: The communities have now really been driven down to emergency current, and if you use emergency power somewhere, it is also very, very important that you see that you are on the repair. But this has not happened this year, and it is unfortunately not foreseen in the budget for next year. Mrs Minister, perhaps you can ask Mr Finanzminister if he knows § 72 of the Lower Austrian Community Regulations, general budgetary principles. According to this section, every mayor, every mayor, is called upon to do so and is also obliged to budget the budget in a balanced manner. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] How is that supposed to happen? How does that work? Dear fellow Members, I can only appeal to everyone once again – there are so many mayor colleagues here –: Also, our employees in the 2 095 communities do not know how to design the supplementary proposal and make the proposal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] There you can cry out quietly, Mr. colleague, it will also concern your more than 1,500 mayors in Austria, because what does Mayor Nagl say from Graz or what does the mayor of Lustenau say? – It is no longer to be financed! [[New call to the ÖVP.]] I can only say one thing, and I ask you all to think about it: Imagine that there is no more money for the communities to maintain water supply and water disposal, there is no room for their children in the children's court, in the crab room, in the school and much more. We have indoor baths to get, we have rescues, fire brigades, we have the waste disposal. Imagine, we can no longer even bury our loved ones, our family members, because the communities can no longer finance it. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] – Welcome to 2021: a disaster at community level with a start! I can only say: If I were to budget as mayor – probably for many colleagues here – I would probably have been mayor for the longest time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41664	No one is reporting on this. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs. [[15:24:10]] UG 42: Agriculture, regions and tourism
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41688	We are now heading 42: Agriculture, regions and tourism. I welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41715	Mr President. Ladies ministers! We are in the second lockdown, and the costs of these measures are not shown in the 2021 budget. This is not a responsible financial policy for people in this country, as I mean. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] But now on the real point, the budget for agriculture, regions and tourism: For the local farmers, this is a very, very challenging time. Climate change affects harvest yields, low-cost products from abroad push the prices of Austrian quality products, and pests, such as borch beetles, destroy entire forests. The farmers are responsible for food safety in the crisis, and I would have liked the Minister of Agriculture to present this draft budget, as she would like to give farmers the security to continue to live well on her job and her products. Unfortunately, this is not a picture, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Although the amount of money for this budget chapter increases by 22.3 percent, it can be booked more than 595 million euros than in the previous year, this increase does not give rise to special joy. [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Köstinger.]] First of all: I find it more than strange if I have to read several press releases that the funds for broadband expansion are now included in the agricultural budget. The estimated sum is EUR 261.5 million. This means that a significant part of the agricultural budget is intended for measures which have virtually nothing to do with this sector. How did you get this idea, Mrs. Minister? [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Köstinger.]] What do you want? You're hiding with it? The UG 42 must be put in a different position, and these are not just my words, but, Mrs Minister, Parliament's budget service has clearly pointed out to you that areas which have nothing to do with each other must also be separated on a monetary basis. Now to the forest funds of 157.9 million euros: I would like to stress that, in my role as SPÖ Agriculture Spokesman, I am basically in favour of support measures for forest owners when their areas are affected by pests – especially the borque beetle has caused huge damage in the area of our forests – but the design of this fund is highly criticised as SPÖ. There are not yet any published directives on who receives how much support for what services. We have massive concerns that large-scale owners will make the most of the support, so we demand a degressive funding model in this area, which will help to achieve more compensation and more money for smaller researchers in relation than the large-scale forest owners. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It also needs a clear commitment to collective contractual remuneration for forest workers, and it also needs proper accommodation for them. [[Abg. Wögerer: Eh, the Chamber of Labour!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To conclude: There must also be an obligation for the promoters to refrain from chemical-syntthetic pesticides. At the moment, the Waldfonds is only a personal pot of our Mrs. Federal Minister, who, according to the guilds, without parliamentary control – you have to imagine this once: without any parliamentary control! - can be exploited. This is play money, Mrs. Minister, and we reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the Minister of Agriculture obviously intends, in the rural support programme, no longer to equip social services with funds. From the SPÖ's point of view, it is incomprehensible how one does not want to continue in times of a covid-pandemic, which flows into care, health and childcare. From our point of view, this funding rail is essential in order to keep young people, families and single-parents in the rural area and to face a departure into the agglomerations. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:31]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41962	The two applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e41999	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In this ministry and also in this budget there is a lot of what rural areas need. These are measures for agriculture and forestry, these are measures relating to broadband development and digitalisation, and these are measures – a good news for mayors – on urban water management. With an increase in this budget – this is the budget! – this Federal Government has an absolutely right sign of around 600 million euros, and it is going in the right direction. – Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for your competence and commitment to rural areas! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogluwer.]] However, I should also like to congratulate the interim results at European level on the new common agricultural policy. There were important negotiations in the Council of Agriculture Ministers and also in the European Parliament. This ensures self-sufficiency. It will ensure that we will continue to have self-sufficiency with Austrian and European food in the future, so that food will not come to us mainly from North Africa or South America in the future. Secondly, we ensure that farmers – and we also want to deliver – will do more for climate change and environmental protection; thirdly, we will ensure that there will be practical programmes so that farmers will finally be able to generate income with their farms so that at the end of the day as a farm, as a rural family, it will not be rubbed between the trends of the Green Deal and the purchasing behaviour, the consumption behaviour of people and European trade policy. – A great thank you also for this commitment and congratulations on these negotiation results! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now, my colleague, Ecker, to the SPÖ: There were some exciting discussions yesterday. Mr Wimmer has released a tirade against us farmers, and Mr Stöger has once again made statements about our pension system, which simply do not vote. I can correct this: Stäger believes that in our pension account, the grant from public funds amounts to 95 percent. - That's not true. After the 2018 financial statements, the figure is 77.8 percent. The reason for this is that no longer, as in the 1950s or 1960s, about 25 percent, 35 percent of the population – I don't know exactly – are active in agriculture, but only more than 3 to 4 percent. Farmers have acquired a fair pension right in their working lives. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogluwer.]] We're talking about the smallest pensions, and you're on it! Mr Wimmer is not here right now. [[Abg. Vogl: He's supposed to retire soon!]] He was seen on TV by a farmer I happen to know for myself. Her husband had a serious accident at work three years ago, he is unable to work and has a severe disability. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] She writes to me: Greetings to my colleague, Wimmer, he'd like to call her. She also sent me her husband's pension note: The pension is monthly, at care level 3 and plus children's allowance for two children, 875 euros. – And you think it is necessary to look at this group of people. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42068	Member of the Forgeblechner is hereby reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42090	Mr President. Minister! Dear Seers and Seers! Budget Agriculture, regions and tourism – it is strange what the ÖVP farmers' association is doing. While agriculture has already been ruined, in the course of Corona the gastronomy and tourism are now also executed. At the same time, there is another minister, also from the Federal Government, who is ruining the German army. – This is a strong performance. At first glance, this budget is higher than that of recent years. But there is no reason for joy. Many farmers stand with their backs to the wall. In fact, very little of this budget comes to farmers. You and your minister, Mrs ÖVP, have managed to destroy 160,000 farms within several years – since 1987, the Ministry of Agriculture, in other words in this period. And then ÖVP delegates stand out here and talk of success! For me, this is more than hypocritical – yes, one can speak of falsehood. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] A proof, “Top agrar”, a few days ago: Farmers' Federal President: Agricultural reform has long been overdue, agricultural farms are going ahead of the dogs. - Quote. [[Abg. Straster: Wrong quote!]] On the other hand, Mr. Berlakovich – he's not here now; yet, there he is: LK Burgenland offers seminars, “Getting out of agriculture – that’s how I do it right.” – Well, that’s a super agricultural policy, that’s a good standing representative! Mrs. Minister, where is the trip to go? Do you want to save our farmers and give them long-term prospects and planning security, or do you care? In this budget I see little – no innovations, no improvements, no long-term answers. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Especially in the current economic crisis, there is an urgent need for a change. The best evidence is the current Green Report: Unrestricted Farm Mortgage, low incomes of farmers and farmers in all sectors. Summary: The situation of farmers and forestry farmers is disastrous. In order for our farmers to survive in the long term, it takes far-reaching measures, not just announcements. There is a need for immediate relief from farmers by re-evaluation of the unit value – as public funds should no longer be included in the calculation. It takes mechanisms to achieve better prices for producers, and it takes proper food labelling. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42238	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mr Strasser spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42272	Col. Schmiedlechner quoted me from “Top agrar” with the fact that the farmers would go before the dogs. I'm actually correcting: ‘Agricultural reform: ‘Farms shall not go before the dogs’; This describes the context I have also put forward in my speech. Peter, where were you when we wanted to write the steel breaks into the criminal code? - You let us down.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42302	Mr Stäger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42326	Mr President. Dear Minister! Mr Strasser, in his speech, said that I had said that I was envious of the farmers' pension. On the contrary, I said that SPÖ has introduced pensions. [[Abg. Schellhorn: I'm actually correcting!]] Besides, I'm actually correcting: He said it was not true that 95 percent of the subsidies were from the state. In the SVB's Annual Report, the total cost of the pension is EUR 1 759 591 806.41, resulting in a government grant of EUR 1 540 423 754.65 and – you have forgotten that! – a partner performance of 166,426,884 euros. As a result, 95 percent of the funds come from public and tax resources. Thirdly, Mr Strasser – which is also an actual correction – has claimed something about occupational incapacity pension. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is not an actual correction...!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] They also have employees; and exactly these people who have a disability pension receive the discounts they are reintroducing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42423	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order on a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42455	Only very briefly to colleagues Stöger, since he repeatedly claims that the agricultural social security scheme has been introduced by SPÖ: [[strong opposition to the SPÖ]] That's not true! [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The rural social security scheme was decided here in Parliament under Chancellor Josef Klaus, and the first payments were made under Chancellor Kreisky.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42554	The Bureau consulted and the experts accepted it in this form. [[Call to the SPÖ: They are the Chairperson!]] I didn't know who she was coming to. It would have been an answer if Member Strasser had come out. [[Abg. Kollross: No!]] We will discuss the situation again and then correct it. Should it have been an answer, it will be valued as a personal comment and counted on the speaking time. [[Abg. Cornelia Ecker: Exactly!]] [[Abg.: (in the direction SPÖ) Eben, keep cool!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But also at the Stöger!]] Members of Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42642	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Nikolaus Prince, for giving me so much attention in the hall. [[Abg. Prince: You're welcome, Clemens!]] This is not a matter of course for a budget vote. We heard yesterday: Austria is the world champion with regard to the number of corona infections. Austria is also a European champion, European champion of supermarket space per capita. Austria has the largest supermarket density and by the way 15 running metres of road network per inhabitants, which is one of the densest road networks in Europe. [[Abg. Schellhorn: (in the direction of ÖVP) Only that you know: This is against you!]] This shows that, if you want to, you can also direct the hard-working prosperity against yourself. I am talking about our soils, these are the soils on which our food grows. We continue to stress 20 hectares each day – and that's where the cat starts biting in the tail. In 1950, the share of income for agriculture in foodstuffs was still 55 percent; today we are at 20 percent. The rest goes into processing and mainly into trade. This situation alone is forcing more and more farmers to live by the unique order of fruit, namely the sale of land. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On these reasons, then, supermarkets are born again, which you really don't need anymore. At the same time, housing needs are increasing in Austria, and this housing requirement is also covered with new buildings – for cost reasons mostly built on the green meadow – and not by the use of voids. [[Abg. Martin Graf: As in Vienna under the green tour!]] Another reason why this happens is the fragmented competences in spatial planning, spatial planning and dedication. The Federal Government is very happy to shift responsibility to the countries, the countries are pushing them to the municipalities, and there is usually no spatial coordination and division of labour between the municipalities. The consequences are dispersal, emptiness, long transport and work routes, and above all, also monofunctions in rural areas. A meaningful circular economy for rural areas, which would be so important, cannot function under these circumstances. The local cores, which once were places of encounter and social meeting points, are lost, and a piece of Austrian identity is lost. We must act, and we have a number of points in the government programme, which are quite objectives – but we must address them. Every inactive hour means 8,000 square meters of concreted ground. We need active land management and active land policy to minimise land consumption. There is a need for an identification of agricultural production areas and ecological priority areas; there is a need for trans-regional planning and a development of support in favour of the activation of voids. It needs an emptiness collection instead of new buildings on the green meadow. We, as agricultural farmers, must be concerned about shaping the future with fertile soils and not with concrete. Mrs Minister, with the brochure of Örok and our government programme, we have a job assignment. - I'm asking for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42749	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42770	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to follow the remarks made by my predecessor, since there is a current case in Upper Austria, where the spatial planning novels have just been presented. There was a very, very good proposal from the experts, but of course it was completely ignored by the Black Councillor Achleitner. A law has come out that seeks to be the same and that can really not be surpassed by dilettantism. This, of course, is damaging to agriculture, and this also has a significant impact on biodiversity. Today we are dealing with the 2021 draft budget. Right ahead, Minister of State: The budget for agriculture, regions and tourism is also a great disappointment for us. There is a significant increase in money spent, but of course the reforms are missing again, and the innovative economic models in this concept are also lacking. They have failed to assume responsibility for the future of agriculture and also for the future of rural areas. What is it about when I say that? – I say quite consciously: Agriculture is a key sector, it is a highly strategic field. I'll stay with you. We need very clear answers to the following questions, which I asked here in June and July, but which have not been answered. We have to answer: What are our farmers to live on in ten, in 20, in 30 years? What economic, social and environmental role should they play? How do we get the natural resources? How do we deal with digitization? How do we deal with automation, with the world market, with the CO2 price? How do we deal with the climate crisis in particular? – These are the very big questions that belong to the answer, and you still owe us an answer to them. Yes, there are always big announced projects, but often the corresponding results are missing. You don't even learn from mistakes. I am addressing a very, very important issue for rural areas, namely broadband development. Many of us will remember: Ten years ago, there were the famous broadband billions that should have been implemented. The results can really be read well in a 2018 Court of Auditors report, which not only criticizes how transparency has grown, but how inefficient the funds have been used, but in which the measures are torn up in the air. Those who don't believe it can also look at it in the broadband atlas – it has been spent a lot of money for very little effect. The municipalities still build uncoordinated, there is no overall strategy, there is no overall plan. It's all known. One would, of course, think that if you put more money back into broadband expansion, you will have to think about it before and really have an overall concept. – but no. I mean, seriously. This really poses the danger that we are spending very, very negligently on taxpayers' money. It can't be! But let's go back to agriculture! I'll tell you again: For me, agriculture is a key sector that has also been excellent in the Corona crisis. But what you can see is that farmers' incomes depend more and more on compensation payments. Their percentage is increasing. But there are possibilities, and this is also quite well seen in the Green Report. For example, if family businesses diversify when they go into niches when they develop innovative models, they can find a good outcome. That's where you should sit. That is where you really should start, create a legal environment, create the conditions for it, and also support entrepreneurial initiatives. There are good examples of this, you know it: Agricultural photovoltaics – we have discussed this. We also discussed the trade in CO2 certificates. Yes, there are also private associations of producers who create their own brands. Yeah, seriously, you need to learn a little bit to trust! They can also work if the AMA is not in it if the farming chamber is not in it and if not the farmer's farmland. The overarching goal you have described in your government programme is “the supply of high-quality food, the preservation of multifunctional, sustainable, competitive and comprehensive agriculture and forestry as well as a high degree of self-sufficiency”. Those are nice words, but very seriously: The 2021 budget lacks the implementation of this strategy. We don't see the target in it. There is now a good opportunity – in fact, a great one-time opportunity – to bring a lot into the framework of the national strategy plan for the CAP. I call for, at least, an agricultural policy to be made in this country, which is ambitiously reformed, and in which innovative economic concepts are really reflected. I do not want any agriculture that knows no other answers than to butt money in failed systems, because it has always been that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42828	Federal Minister Köstinger is reported next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42850	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. With the budget that we can discuss today, we cover almost all the areas of the future that are of particular importance to us in rural areas, in the regions. The pleasure of the budget for the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism is that we have succeeded in increasing EUR 595 million in this area of responsibility. We have thus created a very solid and, above all, reliable basis for securing agriculture, forestry, the whole of rural areas, tourism, the water industry, mining, but above all regional policy, postal, broadband and telecom sectors and civil services. Above all, however, we have also succeeded in ensuring that there are no cuts, so that we can invest in important strategic future areas. Another very positive message: The 2021 to 2024 financial framework will provide a total of EUR 1.7 billion for the regions. The increase in the current 2021 budget must be explained in particular by four key measures. On the one hand, we invest very massively in the forest and forestry area. For Austria, forestry is not only a significant, important factor in terms of environmental protection, climate protection, but is also an extremely important economic factor in our country. We can invest around 158 million euros in future-oriented forests next year. On the one hand, this is a very crucial, important economic measure for the whole rural area, but on the other hand it also offers a perspective for those forest farmers who in recent years have been affected by a massive pest by the borch beetle or, on the other hand, by windbrows, heavy rain events or late snowbreaks. The forest is air conditioning in our country, and this investment is also an investment in more climate protection. Farmers will contribute to this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We can also provide more funding for broadband development. There are 261 million euros available. These are the life lines of our regions. I think right now we'll see again: Home Office is gaining central importance, many students have to be able to follow the class through Distancelearning. The investment of 261 million euros in the future, and thus the recasting of broadband promotion, is the right signal right now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are also continuing a truly unique success story throughout Europe, and that is the area of rural development. This will continue to the fullest extent. Overall, we will have EUR 991 million for rural development and regional policy next year, and this will be mainly due to the continuation of the transitional years, because there are currently intensive discussions at European level on reorientations. We also invest in more animal welfare. This means that the farmers have listened to society and, of course, note that there is a greater demand to invest more in animal welfare. We take over 120 million euros a year. It is also up to society, consumers and consumers to buy these products. In particular, we are taking measures towards the production of agriculture. Everything we find in Austria is not of course. On the contrary: It is part of 365 days of hard work a year, and all that will be found in our programs. The fourth central point to experience a massive appreciation is the settlement of water. This is a very important area for our regions, for our communities. It is about the supply of clean water to ensure the sustainable disposal of waste water. We will also increase the funds in the next few years by a total of 35 million euros. This will allow us to continue on the one hand proven measures, but on the other hand also to invest in important future areas. Our budget, like the whole range of topics of the Ministry, is very broad and a very crucial, important signal for the regions in this country. A very essential area is the protection against natural hazards: Flood protection measures and the enormously important and successful avalanche protection programme are secured for the future. The continuation of all current tourism programmes is also ensured. The necessary assistance measures that we need as a result of the Corona crisis in this area are provided by the Covid-19 crisis management fund. At this point, we are really grateful for the good cooperation with the Ministry of Finance – there have been essential steps so that we can make the tourism industry, the gastronomy and, above all, the organizers, the art industry and the and the cultural sector will be able to support significantly in the coming months. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, I am allowed to come to civil service, which has been in our place of residence since January and has been faced with a very large test especially at the beginning of the Corona crisis. From our point of view, civil service is the very large, central and important strategic reserve in the health field. There too, we will continue to keep the funds at this level to support the social and health systems of civil servants. We will think in the future, especially in the field of civil service. So we have a lot of improvements in the next few months and years. In total, this higher budget will benefit rural areas in different ways. Of course, in many areas we also depend on the good cooperation with the federal states and, above all, on the living cells of our rural area – the municipalities. We are investing in the regions, which is above all our budgetary response to the corona crisis. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps at the end of the day, let me say something about the germinal class struggles that you have been able to pursue here in the High House in the last few days: In my opinion, it is really embarrassing – and that makes me really angry – as in part is tried to carry out debates on the back of the farmers. Farmers are responsible 365 days a year for providing food of the best quality. Farmers are the basis for the fact that we have so pure water in Austria and tourism works as well as it works. The nature and all that is preserved and protected is the performance of farmers. The fact that we have a debate in the social security field on whether or not a discharge of minimum pensioners is justified in the agricultural field is embarrassing, angry and, above all, is not worthy of social democracy! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42937	Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e42958	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schmiedlechner, you are here and you are excited about seminars we are holding. Do you know what these seminars are? – These are seminars for farmers who do not have children, these are seminars for farmers who do not have successors with partially indebted farms and we accompany as a chamber so that they do everything right and do not remain – out of responsibility for the farmers. If you'd been wondering, you'd know what it's all about. That's how we assume responsibility. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Second point: They stand here and say that 160 000 farms are being destroyed. By the way: If you listen, you have to stop as a farmer anyway. They only spread frustration and distress and misery. Do you know why the plants stop? – Because people like you agree with actions, so they can no longer be able to join! Last the FPÖ: Glyphosate ban – get away with it! Show steel breaks as a crime – get out of there! They are also responsible for deciding on conditions that make life difficult for farmers. So don't put yourself here to moralize! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] No, that's a serious thing! That's a serious thing. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: 160 000...!]] It is, in fact, that – the appeal goes to the whole High House –: When you screw up the conditions for the farmers, it becomes more difficult to work. The following – and now I come to the point that offers farmers a perspective: The Corona crisis has triggered many discussions in society, in addition to the management of disease, the question of the value system. What priorities are there? – A very strong trend towards regionality is evident. We, the Farmers' Federation, the ÖVP, have been trying for years to anchor this regionality in the population. Thank you to the consumers, who are also involved in buying regional food. This trend has become tremendously stronger. I also see regionality as another concept, if we are rightfully discussing in Europe how many drugs we have on our own continent, so that we can secure the well-being of the population. The food is also a matter of precisely what we are talking about. How can we guarantee that there is regional food? The population is taking care of it. This is also an opportunity for our agricultural agriculture. Mrs. Doppelbauer, I am quite right to say that diversification is the point – we have been doing this for decades. Especially our agriculture is very broad, but forget about it. They are not the great mass of the other farmers who produce food also for the wide mass of the population. What we want is a regional supply also with bigger goods such as milk, cereals, meat and special products. This is like in the economy: In the economy there are large industrial enterprises and many small, specialized SMEs. So it is in agriculture and forestry. I'm not saying this as an accusation, but I mean, Just focusing on it would be a mistake. We need the same thing because we fall back in Austria in the field of self-sufficiency. We had 121 percent self-sufficiency in the 1990s, now we have 87 percent. We can't take care of ourselves anymore. With vegetables we had 73 percent self-sufficiency, down to 44 percent, with oilseeds from 44 percent to 29 percent, because the conditions are increasing and production is no longer calculated, because you also prohibit plant protection products, but then we import the food from elsewhere. [[Abg. Forgedlechner: Closed!]] That is why I thank Federal Minister Köstinger that she is so opposed to Mercosur, because that is the death blow for regionality when it is generally imported. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogluwer.]] There is still much to be said on this subject. However, I also wanted to comment on the European Union's regional policy, which in addition to the common agricultural policy is a link for this common Europe: helping weak regions in Europe to reach the economic level of stronger regions. As with the CAP, which Minister Köstinger negotiated very well – there are very good conditions for an agreement – it is also with regional policy. There is the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund. Cross-border cooperation should also be continued continuously at European level. Especially in the post-corona period, it makes sense for funding to be used to invest in the regional economy and in regional labour market development. These funds are also available for Austria, and are also very useful in Austria. This improves our net pay position and is a chance that we will hopefully give a good perspective in the time after Corona, but also in agriculture. In conclusion: I join Elisabeth Köstinger's appeal. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and others, what is the key concept after the Corona pandemic? - Together. We can only do this together, it doesn't make sense to split society: This is where the employee works, since the farmers, as the economy – and against each other. Only together can we make some progress, and not by working against each other. This is my appeal to you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43037	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43059	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Look with me briefly into the near future, in winter! In tourism, more than half of the usual annual production value comes from winter tourism. Unfortunately, it looks very sad today. In contrast to the summer, the Austrian market cannot pick up this: 80 percent of guests come from abroad. In view of these figures and the restrictions on travel, this situation will probably not change until the next spring. The Austrian guests can't pick this up. What does that mean? – It means losses. Due to the collapse of winter tourism alone, there will be even more massive economic problems in Austria, and it is therefore necessary to support the public sector even more in order to boost the economy and secure jobs. But you find very little in your plans. The tourism companies, on the other hand, have done everything they have been given to them. I can now say this in short terms: Farms are locked up, businesses are allowed to sell take-away food. Then the farms were opened again, the locals were converted, guest numbers and seats were reduced, seats were created instead of pitches. The suspension period was pre-located, there was a announced and failed test strategy, distance rules were strictly complied with. There was the guest registration, while the company was still responsible for data protection, the concept of secure hospitality, Mrs. Minister, and nevertheless the establishments had to close, although no guest has been shown to have been infected in a farm. The basics are not understandable and the current rules are not fair either. The consequences are fears of existence, the mood is saddened, the businesses have lost confidence. It also does not help investment sugars, because the businesses at the moment do not even know how to pay Christmas money to their employees. There is also no plan to regulate the death of farms in dignity. As we know, there are enormously high tax burdens in the resolution – and there is no help for that either. I very much hope that all those involved who have been abandoned and who have come into such a situation undecided by misdecided decisions will long be well aware of who has done so, because Covid-19 will remix the cards. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] First of all, we need a plan – and a budget is a plan – in which the help and support are shown. We must get away from the panic scene with hundreds of press conferences, towards effective management. It would be leadership. As a tourism minister, you are responsible for thousands of businesses that fall within your area, and although you are not responsible for fixed-cost subsidies and revenue replacement, you are nevertheless responsible. That is why I expect you, in return for the people outside, to provide you with a corresponding help to develop medium-term, tailored support and not to forget anyone. I do not believe that advertising, image campaigns, hygiene regulations and behavioural rules alone are economic measures. On the fixed-cost phase two, I would like to say that Finance Minister Blümel has threatened many lives in this regard through his poker game in the EU. Tomorrow we will decide a budget for 2021, and it is already obsolete. The fact is that there is currently too little money in the tourism cycle, no one can come as quickly as possible, and no money for other crisis management measures in the budget. According to the objective you have formulated, a strengthening of Austrian tourism is to take place. As we know, it will take three to five years for us to come to the state that was before Corona. We don't know how you want to achieve this goal yet. We also do not know how it is for tourism companies after the 6th century. It is expected to continue on December. This question is also open. Finally, I would like to point out that: They have forgotten an industry again, the travel agency industry, which is not taken into account. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to consider this sector, too, and ask for a broad majority. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Very great speech!]] [[16:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43162	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Vogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43187	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Dragi poslušalci in poslušalke! In front of us is an agricultural budget, which for the first time also offers us news in the field of organic farming. With the current budget, it will be possible to enter the organic farming every year, and I think that is an essential success and something new. We want to maintain this, because we see the way to achieving the climate targets that we have committed ourselves to in Austria in particular in organic farming. It is November, and if you look at what has shaped agriculture or the political landscape in agriculture this year and what it will still have to do with it, then I think these are three important things: the Green Deal of the European Commission, the Farm-to-Fork Strategy and the Biodiversity Strategy. All three will also have a significant impact on where Austria's agriculture will develop. With the Farm-to-Fork strategy, we have for the first time reached the point where we take not only the farmers from the farm to the plate, but also the consumers. In fact, together we associate with the fact that the daily food is not something that is produced anonymously somewhere, but ultimately on the plate a name, a place and also the name of the Farmer and the farmer who produced it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In all development, we will not be getting around in agriculture for the achievement of the climate targets. If we fail to achieve these objectives, there will no longer be this producing agriculture, as we often call it, in Austria in the form it is now taking place. It does not help put the head in the sand and continue as before, because that will no longer be possible. Especially farmers experience daily in summer, winter, autumn and spring in their fields, which is what it means when the weather hits its caprioles. We must therefore be aware that there is a need for agriculture that protects our soil, which preserves fertility, which protects against erosion and which has ultimately committed itself to ethical animal husbandry. The future of agriculture is to be found where consumers know that it does not matter what product they grab on the shelf. It is too little to say that the market will judge this itself. There are also a number of tasks ahead of us in politics. In our opinion, it needs a clear commitment to the fact that the eating habits of people are now simply changing. This must therefore also be able to follow agriculture. This requires targeted support and ultimately also a awareness that the precious soil that produces high-quality food must also be in balance with the soil that supplies high-quality feed and that animal production must be maintained. So the future lies where consumers, farmers and farmers come on a common path, where transparency is at the forefront and ultimately a agriculture that protects the climate and is not just climate-afite.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43241	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43262	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Agriculture: I always say the numbers don't lie. If you look at the Green Report 2019 and notice that the average income of farmers in 2019 was EUR 27 966 and in 2018 at EUR 28 035 – so there was even a slight minus in 2019 – then you know that a class struggle is totally missing because the income for a farm in total is modest. When we look at the fact that the mining industry on average is even 19 percent below this average income, we know that the mountain farming, the rural area, of course needs our support. Estimated colleagues from the ÖVP! Estimated colleague Berlakovich, your attack on colleagues Schmiedlechner was really covered with Weitem. You know that we are behind the mountain farming, the farm and the families. [[Mr Berlakovich and Mr Schmuckenschlager.]] Of course, you can have different entrances – that's normal, we're not a party – but one must be, and we've always signaled this clearly: We are behind agriculture, we are behind the mountain farming, we are behind the agricultural farms, and we are doing so out of conviction and heart. Please take note of this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One last word: On the subject of glyphosate one can be quite different opinions. This is also carcinogenic, because you can have different access. Our position is to ban glyphosate. This must be possible in democracy, and we are also in favour, Mr Berlakovich. To tourism: Tourism is absolutely essential for rural areas. That's also very soon: We need to see that we bring tourism and our businesses back to work as soon as possible. That's the only way. Our tourism companies are not the infectious drivers, they have created great safety concepts, and the statistics say that a maximum of 2 to 4 percent of all infections come from this industry. So we're doing everything right. I am allowed to express from the speaker's desk a huge compliment towards our tourism industry, the gastronomy, the hotel industry, the private landlord who has mastered the summer, despite the most difficult conditions, with Bravour. What tourism needs now is planning security. She needs to know when to lock her up again – you have to hire employees, you have to make marketing, you have to cover up with goods, you have to prepare for winter. This cannot be done if the conditions are not met. One word for short work: This instrument too is now too short in the crisis, because in order to be entitled to short work, the employee must be employed for a month. How is this going to work in this crisis situation? This month's gone! It is necessary to open the short work for tourism companies immediately, otherwise the companies would have to pay the employees fully from mid-December to the end of January and can only then claim short work! I can still pour so many public funds into a barrel without soil if I do not make the economic conditions, it does not do anything. So that too is to be changed. Mrs. Minister, I'm almost sorry if you have to improve over and over again. There are many actions, there are many who immediately grasp – as I have already said, the reduction of VAT was a great story – but there are also many programs that simply forget about planning important target groups. That happens again and again. [[The speaker presented a table entitled ‘Fixing grant – application does not meet the criteria required’ on the speaker’s desk.]] Yesterday I was dealing with the private tenants, today the small commercial companies are continuing. Just one example: A small commercial business – four apartments, 29 guests, this is a commercial business. He pays the compulsory contributions, pays the tourist charges, pays his taxes, but does not receive the fixed-cost subsidy and the turnover replacement. It can't be! And why isn't that going on? – Because, in the regulation for the right to fixed and turnover replacement, you simply forgot to write the § 28 Income Tax Act. These are all those companies that determine their profits under tax law according to rental and lease, but they are still commercial companies. That is why we are proposing today – and I have already mentioned in the Committee that we need to change this – in which we call for the corresponding regulation to be amended so that, of course, all businesses can apply for the fixed-cost replacement and receive revenue replacement. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In other words, all businesses must receive the right to fixed-cost replacement and revenue replacement. Please make this clear, Mrs. Minister. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43443	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. We have now come to the Stenographical Protocol of the actual corrections, because we did not know who was apostrophic. It was right. the actual correction made by Mr Prinz is not correct, which could have been made by Mr Strasser as a reply, because he was personally apostrophic. Therefore, this speaking time is deducted from that of the ÖVP club. Mr Schmidhofer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43480	Mr National Council President! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Trustees at home! Back to the topic: Dear colleague Schmijdlechner, this is not an acceptable word: The execution of the gastronomy and the hotel industry. Let's not split up! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] We belong together in the regions – agriculture, tourism. We need each other, we need healthy regional food, we need the hiking trails, we need the ski slopes, we need to go touring, for cycling every day our farmers so that tourism outside the regions is as possible. Don't burn, but fight for the thing! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mrs Vorswinkler, in view of your remarks, I ask myself: Did you sleep in committee? Do you not know what we have done to help tourism? All I can say is that we have just increased the acceptance of liability – from 375 million euros to 625 million euros – that we have made the economic package with the VAT reduction, the apprentice bonus – 3 000 euros for an apprentice. Furthermore, we have introduced the investment premiums – 7 percent to 14 percent – for the secure hospitality we have provided 100 million for testing, and the turnover replacement of 80 percent is an emergency aid that is looking for the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Now I've quickly looked at which professional group you belong. I don't want to tell you anything, but I've almost suspected you're not a professional. You have no idea of the business! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] They're a folk school director from somewhere else, and I have to confirm: Look at exactly what is being done, and only then do speak! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] Now to the budget: Mrs Bundesminister, thank you very much for keeping the budgets that way. [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] We will again have a lot available for tourism promotions for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the Austrian advertising, which is very important and was also very important for the summer business today. We have been able to save the summer season well in some regions because we have put in place the right measures. We have helped many family businesses to secure jobs and economic strength in the regions. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] Finally, I should also like to ask you, Mrs Minister, to continue. I know that you are in contact with the most important countries of origin of our tourists, who like to visit us – with Germany and many others. We need to see that our guests will be allowed to return if they allow the numbers to enter and consume with us. This is, of course, the greatest help. Sepp Schellhorn, thank you for thanking this 80 percent replacement, even though you belong to another group. I think this is what Parliament needs: that we work together in the end of the shoulder, without class struggles for the tourism industry. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43577	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43598	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! To connect with colleagues Schmidhofer: Yes, I spoke positively about this and said that it was very fast. I've said that several times. Nor do I like to thank the Minister for his praise and to say that she has been very active in tourism in recent times. [[It was in favour of NEOS and ÖVP, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] The pressure in this area was large, but the pressure is still large. When it comes to the budget, it is usually not only about planning, but also about liquidity. That is why I have the following request – that is what Mr Schmidhofer said: Yeah, it happened now, in November. It is necessary to push down the number of infections, so that the travel warnings can be removed, and these travel warnings continue to exist, according to information provided by the German ambassador until 30.3. This means that at this time the quarantine obligation is still valid on return. We need to get rid of this. But what is it about? . I believe we are in agreement with you, Mrs Minister, and with Mr Blümel, the Minister of Finance, that there will no longer be this 80 percent cost replacement in December and January, because he would break the budget. Remember, too, that December for the city hotels, especially for Vienna, is the strongest month in turnover – for us not yet in the holiday regions. What I mean is that we need planning now. I would therefore ask you to prepare for tourism and perhaps to remove aid from the maximum ceiling of EUR 800 000, perhaps also in relation to Article 107. 2 lit. (b) with regard to disaster paragraphs, namely loss compensation. That will be what we will meet in winter tourism, that will be what will concern us. I don't think that this will be over in December after a slow re-run, as German chancellors have just said. We will not be very useful if we leave the cafés open until 6 p.m. in December and then stand before the choice: Do we open, or do we close the end of January? We need clear statements and the courage to be able to say that. I make a point of discussing – I do not ask it, but I put it to the discussion – whether we should not discuss it if the number of infections does not fall accordingly, at least half the January, February and March. This is still better for business than to forget just because you want to save Christmas and New Year's Eve. You could discuss that. Mrs Minister, I may also be able to say a few words: It is now also an opportunity for 2021 to really grow closer together and see regional development, tourism and agriculture together – not with prescriptions regarding labelling requirements on the Austrian menu cards, but with how we can network and apply together. That would be a wish. I am missing something in budgeting, also in the overall direction on ÖW and, above all, the joint application of agricultural products. There's a strategy to work on it. There are five points: It needs a clear statement as to how it continues, especially because tourism is still baffled. Not only urban tourism is still spoiled, but winter tourism flourishes exactly the same fate as urban tourism, which is minus 70 percent. We will have to continue to discuss more than 80 percent of the revenue, since it is going to break the budget, but that is really dramatic, that there is a lack of liquidity for businesses, and above all they need capital-strengthening measures. However, you may also need the possibility of structural adjustment – of closing, rehabilitating or both. That is, we also have a massive successor problem. We could set tax incentives so that a certain overcapacity, which has prevailed over the past few years, can be further adjusted – businesses that are actually only more alive and not closed because they have a low book value and the sales value would be much higher. Summa summarum needs clear concepts. I also offer our cooperation. We have to deal with this now, so that in spring or summer 2021 there is no really bad credit, especially in tourism. I'd be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43656	Mr Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Estimated Minister! For many tourism companies, the current situation is really anything but simple. I am fully aware that we need to make the greatest possible effort to offer businesses a future perspective as far as possible in view of the Covid crisis. What is now needed beyond crisis management, which has already been addressed and implemented several times, are largely three points: First of all, it takes short-term and rapid help to secure the jobs of businesses. Secondly, the pre-diseases of the farms – I call them – must be addressed, and thirdly, we must use the crisis to set the course in order to tackle a crisis-proof and future-fit tourism. For short-term insurance: We have set up numerous measures for the industry, for example – which has already been mentioned – the fixed cost grant phase one and two, the credit moratorium, the loss return, the short-time work, the sales revenue of 80 percent. If further measures are needed, as Mr Schellhorn has pointed out, we will also take further measures, because we must not forget that tourism is not only one of the biggest employers, but that a whole tourist value chain – from the baker on site to the mountain guide – depends on it. However, it will need more than the current crisis management, because at the latest we now notice on which wacky legs our tourism stands. Only if one sees the negative equity ratio of businesses, one knows that we need to secure the tourism industry in the long term. I have often stressed that the enormous competitive pressure and investment pressure in the industry can lead to the concentration process that only a few benefit, but many suffer or lose. This is not only less profitable from an economic point of view, but also from an ecological point of view. We now need to talk about the direction in which our tourism is developing, in which direction it should develop. The Covid crisis will not be the last challenge for our tourism – keyword: Especially with regard to winter tourism – which has already been addressed, and I look beyond this season – there is the climate crisis. The crisis is like a magnifying glass, which has a radical effect on existing problems. Existing problems cannot be solved by ignoring them, but we must address them and, in principle, think of tomorrow's tourism. To you, dear colleague Hörl – who is just calling, but nevertheless –: We will not avoid starting a change in tourism. This has nothing to do with hitz, but it is urgently necessary. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] We need to make tourism a crisis and climate festival. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Don't worry, Mr. Hörl, it's not about all of us becoming eco-eco. It's about not breaking our business base, because nature is the capital of tourism. It's about writing black numbers with green ideas. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger.]] For us, this means that we need to change the funding structure in the sense that small-scale, often family-run businesses, which are already going towards socially sustainable tourism, are better supported that we create fairness in the industry, that we see that the smaller businesses are not under pressure of investment and are losing through the pressure of growth, but that we really create fairness in the industry and, above all, we support smaller, small-scale, family-run businesses. In the same way, we need to change something at the beginning when we look at how the achievements in tourism are measured at all. At the moment we are only limited to the number of nights, but they do not say anything about the quality or anything else. We need to look at the indicators it needs to measure success. The questions are as follows: How much value added remains in the region? What about the staff in tourism? How satisfied are the guests, how long are our guests there?, and so on. Now that the speaking time is running out, I'm just saying: Let us use the time to make tourism crisis- and future-proof, because crisis-sensitive growth concepts are – in the truest sense of the word – snow from yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43739	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43760	Dear High House! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The budget for agriculture is increasing, and the forest fund is also worth EUR 350 million. In principle: The climate crisis, of course, also affects our forests with devastating effects, whether it be certain species of trees that simply no longer grow due to the hot summer, or pests such as the borch beetle. Our forests are affected, that is clear, but they are also, of course, part of the solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] - Yes, you can clap. Trees are great, trees bind the CO2 that we emit, and help us reduce our emissions. That is why we have also called for more budgets for our forests to make these climate conditions and to compensate those affected. We do not know how much environmental protection happens with this 350 million euros. How much CO2 you save with this 350 million euros, Mrs. Minister, you don't know. There is no impact assessment. They distribute the money entirely independently of the actual CO2 reduction numbers. And, Mrs. Minister: It was 2020 because of the climate crisis waratēs – that was noted at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But well – according to which criteria are you actually divided or actually split? You are authorized to implement it by directive itself, it is your basket money that you can distribute. We still don't know exactly how this is done. These directives are not yet available, although we have passed the law about half a year ago. That is surprising, for: Do you remember how stressful that was in spring? At that time, you brought in the law without discussion, without a review phase, without having discussed it for a long time in the committee. As it was extremely stressful, you explained that because of Corona this must happen quickly. Half a year later, the guidelines are not yet available – aha, okay! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] The point is as follows: Unfortunately, the forest ownership in Austria is very uneven as so much. On the one hand, we have many people who each own a small piece of forest, perhaps inherited, but on the other hand we have very few who have very, very, very much reason. [[Call:The Federal Forests]] The suspicion that it is client policy that you have skillfully used during the Corona crisis to send money and budget to your friends among the big landowners is close. That's why I come to the conclusion and say only more: Voices Please ask our request for a degressive distribution so that the little ones are supported! Take the doubt that this is client policy, and also take the doubt that there are a few privileged abscessions to take place again! My colleague Ecker's request would be a good idea. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To conclude: I am pleased that Mr Berlakovich – who has now criticized the FPÖ because she joins the glyphosate ban in decisions like that – acknowledges that we have already made a decision in this House twice for the glyphosate ban. I hope it will eventually follow implementation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43824	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43845	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Again a short time back to tourism: We have heard what is required of the government, and we know all the measures of this government, which our Mrs Federal Minister for Tourism has negotiated with the government and which enable the tourism industry to survive this crisis in half stable terms. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now I'm telling you something as a tourist speaker: Do you know what helps tourism most? – That there is finally another agreement on how to bring down the numbers. And it's so simple: Do you know her name? – Wash hands, keep your distance, wear oral nose protection. I'll tell you, The population outside behaves very much after us and according to what the individual political groups are doing here. Let's see what the SPÖ is doing on this issue. It is not always against it, it is not always for it, but then, for example, it is said: If people don't argue about paradeisers and roar, we don't need masks when shopping. – That’s where we give them down, and otherwise we give them back up. For example, Kärntner's head of state recently said: You can't compare Vienna with Carinthia, we don't have to wear the mask in Carinthia. - I want someone to know what we should do. [[Abg. Cake: The Elli Köstinger...!]] Do you know what the NEOS said on November 15th? – The measures are overwhelming, and unemployment also reduces life. – You should know what's good and what's not good. The FPÖ says it quite clearly – they are the only ones who say it quite clearly (Interruption of the Abg. Forgedlechner ) –: We live in a free country, everyone has to decide for himself what to do, an après ski bar with seats is like a dance event without dancing, it should take place a perfectly normal operation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Every expert and every person who thinks normally, reasonablely knows in this country that we only bring down the numbers if these three basic points are met: Keep away, use oral nose protection and wash hands. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] If we all do this, we'll have a winter season, the tourists make a shop, and you can go on vacation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] If we move forward with this example, then the people will stick to it and not only demand what the government has to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43919	Mr Kainz has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43940	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! The corona pandemic has met many Austrians. In particular, the tourism industry and also farmers and forestry companies faced many challenges this year. It is all the more important that we support them and help them. The total budget for agriculture, regions and tourism for 2021 is EUR 3.27 billion. As compared to the previous year, there is therefore a budget increase, but this is mainly due to the budgeting of the forest fund, the increase in broadband capacity and the funding for rural development of the 2014 to 2020 programme and the direct payment appropriations. Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called Farmers' Party (ÖVP) and the Greens have, unfortunately, not yet managed to decide on a comprehensive rescue shield for agriculture, even though these massive losses of yield had to be taken over by the Corona crisis. The damage caused by the birch beetle and other events can hardly be covered by the forest funds of 157.9 million euros. Mr Köstinger, I am sure that you know that in the National Council we are deciding on the budget at the level of sub-divisions and as a global budget. However, we do not decide on the detailed budget defined within the global budget. The Budget Service has already noted that a revision of the budget structure in the field of agriculture, regions and tourism should therefore be made in order to enable the National Council to decide separately on the budgets for each priority. There are now ten detailed budgets for your department. Have de facto It therefore provides a very high scope for design in the medium use and in the case of reworks of the individual priorities within the framework of the detailed budgets. Due to the fact that such reclassifications within the detailed budgets, which partly do not fit together, are currently subject to you and your place of business alone, you take on a huge responsibility. For many agricultural and forestry farms in Austria, this means that economic survival depends on your decision to rework the detailed budgets, especially in view of the corona pandemic. In this sense, I would like to appeal to you again: We urgently need relief and support from our Austrian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e43980	Members of the Himmelbauer have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44001	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to speak about telecommunications and broadband development, which has been in the Federal Minister's office since the beginning of the year and which is also a good synergy with the area of regions, rural development. I may be able to respond immediately to the speech by my colleague, double-builder, who wanted a bit of feedback or an interim review of the existing 2020 broadband programme. As far as I know, the issue was in the committee and has also been explained there, but I like to repeat it: It is a program launched in 2015 in various program sub-sections of Access, Backhaul, Connect and Empty Tube, in which we can clearly show that much has happened with the invested money. Over the last few years, 940 million euros have been awarded to 388 sponsors – private companies, infrastructure companies, municipalities et cetera – for over 1,200 projects, in more than half of the municipalities in Austria. One million citizens were directly affected by the fact that in their home country, in their region, has been expanded. We have managed to reach a support lever of 2.5 with the invested money: In other words, more than EUR 2 billion has been channelled into the broadband infrastructure in Austria since 2015. I think it is quite a good interim report that we can present today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, with all the progress we have achieved, we are aware – and this shows not only, but also the lessons from the crisis – that the need for Internet connections are still a big topic. We know – we are well aware – that there is still a need for recovery in many regions. Not for nothing, the year 2021, whose budget we are debating today, will be an important signal year for further support in the field of broadband development: The Telecommunication Act is due next year. The 2030 funding programme and, based on it, of course, the funding programme to be agreed with the EU Commission are already being prepared. With around 260 million euros in the 2021 budget, we also lay the foundation for all further steps. We are creating an important economic impetus. We are creating the infrastructure of the future, and we are creating the basis for tomorrow's businesses and jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44046	Member of the Seemayer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44068	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. On the fact that civil service still has an important role and function in dealing with the health crisis, we still have and will, I believe, agree on far distances, and it is out of discussion. For many institutions it would not have been possible to maintain the operation if they had not been allocated to civilian servants. It is all the more important that the civil service is kept fit for the future. When one sees that the wishes of the institutions are currently only up to 80 percent coverage, and one knows that due to the weak years, the numbers of civilians may be declining, one realizes that there is a need for action. You yourself said earlier that improvements are planned for the next months and years. We strongly reject partiality, as we have already noted. We also believe that this is legally difficult to implement. Rather, a model could be an option similar to the ground defense service, where a voluntary extension with a higher merit is now possible. I think that this can also be a proper opportunity for civil service so that civil servants can be made available longer. It could be a good incentive for the future. A voluntary social year can also be a possibility – that is not Their place of business – because a strengthening of this would, of course, relieve the organizations. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Only a note on revenue replacement, which has become necessary due to all the closures in the gastronomy: Of course, a lot can be discussed whether he came too late or whether he is not sure if there is a transfer, because short work does not have to be charged, but one thing is clear: If a total loss of income in the gastronomy justifys or makes necessary an 80 percent replacement, I wonder why this should not apply to employees. If an employee or employee becomes unemployed in the present situation and thus has a total loss of income of her or her, she or she will only be replaced by 55 percent in the form of unemployment benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for me to say this: There is no question of envy on this issue. Of course, the survival of the gastronomy must be assured, but it cannot be that people lose their jobs without guilt and are fed off at 55 percent replacement rate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is therefore an urgent need for an increase in unemployment benefit, which would also support the economy or gastronomy and trade. But I would also like to say one thing: They have found it embarrassing to talk about an increase in farmers. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: For minimum pensioners!]] Mrs Minister, it is also embarrassing to give one thing – namely the farmer – while cutting in with the other – namely with the ASVGlers – and shortening the pension for those who have worked for the same period. [[Abg. Strasser: They got the same thing – the pensioners!]] That's embarrassing, too, Mrs. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44136	Member of the European Parliament's jewelry miner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44157	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget in the field of agriculture, regions and tourism is particularly important: a strong signal of stability, particularly in the field of agriculture and forestry. I believe that this is the most important thing that the Federal Government can send out today: stable framework conditions for the next years, because volatility in the markets hits us – they are under pressure. We also see that we face major challenges if we consider only the change in the farm's working world. I would like to mention the keywords of automation and digitization. If we take the great challenge of climate change seriously, the agriculture and forestry will be with the provision of land and land, but of course also with the provision of agricultural raw materials of the central players. Only in this way will we turn to renewable energy forms. The Forest Fund is also an extensive package that has never been available in this dosage and training for the Austrian forest. This is an insanity and is looking for the same thing throughout Europe. We are able to provide appropriate support for the conversion of the forest, but above all also to maintain the climate-affected forests of Austria. It is about the Austrian forest. The birch beetle does not differ as you into which tree it drills and who is the owner of the tree. If we have a goal effect with the fund, it is to maintain the Austrian forest. It is relatively similar to me, to whom the tree belongs or does not belong, because even in the climate effect of the forest we do not distinguish whether the good air from the Vienna forest may have to stop at the Karl Marx court or not. It is about the Austrian forest and its entire climate effect. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] However, if you permanently confuse agricultural policy with social policy, you should engage a little more in the social policy block, and then you will also notice that all your statements on rural pensions are not so correct. I do not want to say to you that it is your concern for money – it would probably be the first time in the Second Republic that you were suffering from the tax money – but rather it is the problem that your members and also many parts of the population have long recognized: They need the farmers three times a day. How often they need an Alois Stäger, I think, can be counted very quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With 5 euros more per month for Austrian raw materials in shopping, we also create 4 500 jobs in Austria. That is to say, the farmers in On the one hand, Austria is creating security of supply in times of crisis and on the other hand security for jobs – where perhaps some international groups have long left us.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44211	Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44233	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have to clarify something fundamental, because you used yesterday's and today's day again to scramble on the farmers and put agriculture in a shaky light. I say quite clearly to you: I'm not ashamed of being a farmer. I'm even proud that I'm from a mining farm. No farmer has to be ashamed that he is going into the stable every day – from Monday to Sunday – at 5 a.m. to have healthy food on the table. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Sieber.]] No farmer has to be ashamed that he is constantly making sure that the meadows, fields and agricultural areas are in the fire so that when you go on a luxury holiday, you have a view of a green, well-kept landscape. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to be ashamed that it's still normal when the family helps to get a little more work done. You want to be a working party? You don't even know what honest work is! I'm not ashamed that I'm making my hands dirty when I work, because that's the sign that you're still working honestly in this country. I am ashamed of something quite different: that conifers from this panel are insulting the population, speaking of the peasantry. Ladies and gentlemen, you're defaming those who have to work seven days a week and go to the stable every day. What Do You Believe You know where the fresh milk comes from? - I'll tell you a secret: It's not the supermarket cooling shelf. So that you might understand it better: A cow, dear ladies and gentlemen, must be milked every day, she knows no holiday and no weekend, ergo also knows the farmer no vacation and no weekend. A farmer can not in the Stay in bed early and say: I'm not doing well today, I'm going to sick!, because a cow doesn't know a disease either. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The reality is: In order to access regional products and maintain the small-scale structures, many are even going to work side by side, even after they have taken over the farm, so that they can put money into the yard – that is, not to take out money, but to put money in it – so that the farm is preserved. Ladies and gentlemen, even the supervisor, the old farmer, then does not retire. Old farmers work until old age, so that the shop can be kept alive at all. Then the saying will be: Work until the fall!, really to reality, ladies and gentlemen. Our farmers don't need alms, our farmers need two very simple things: This is on the one hand that politics does not beat them in front of their feet – Beats such as a too high social security, an unfair fictitious exit, too much bureaucracy or the like. Secondly, they need to create the environment conditions to ensure that farmers are truly rewarded for the high-quality products they produce. It is mentally ill, ladies and gentlemen, that a brand-t-shirt costs more than a farmer gets for 10 tons – for 10,000 kilograms – earth apples, 50 to 80 euros. It is not normal for 1 kilo of dog feed in the supermarket to cost 6 euros, but you get the duck you buy for yourself to eat by half – around 3 euros per kilo. That can't work in our country anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what our country needs, apart from the fact that we have to get this imbalance out of the world? – That the politicians among you, who here resort from the high Ross to the people, to the peasantry, from the diligent workers and also from the farmers a handful of what they live daily, ladies and gentlemen; that they look for values from the working farmers – values such as work and labor, values such as neighborhood aid, appreciation of land, from land, from home, from regionality. If you were to hack like our hardworking workers and farmers, then not only for the farmers, but in principle for our country would go on more.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44299	Mr Klaus Lindinger, you will speak next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44320	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! If we are discussing today the budget for UG 42 agriculture, regions and tourism, I should like to emphasise one thing very clearly: This budget represents a large increase in euro – a total of EUR 595 million – and this budget is a sign of sustainability and, above all, of the eco-social agricultural policy. Thank you to Minister Köstinger for this great success for our regions, for our agriculture, for tourism! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address one point, because we are operating agricultural policy so that we can manage our farms accordingly in the future: This is precisely why there has been a discharge and investment package, which is retroactive with 1. In January 2020, it entered into force. To that end, I say: The minimum pensioners have been relieved, the social security contributions to small and medium-sized enterprises have been reduced, and in young farmers we have achieved a higher grant, especially in the area of pension insurance. If, as yesterday, Mr Wimmer from the SPÖ comes to the speaker's desk and claims that the young farmers do not pay social security contributions until the age of 27, then this is simply wrong. This is class struggle at the lowest level on the back of our farmers and especially on the back of the young farmers, and we deeply condemn that, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Agriculture is marked by the common agricultural policy, and I should like to thank our Federal Chancellor and our Minister for Agriculture, because they have achieved an increase in the budget for the common agricultural policy by their success in the negotiations. [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] As an Austrian young farmer, we have been working together in recent weeks and months, we have discussed how we develop this common agricultural policy in Austria, and have produced a position paper that we have just given to the Minister and in which we bring in our ideas and demands – from the west to the east, from all over Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, farmers do much: from the production of high-quality food, especially during the crisis period, to the fact that three times a day each table is covered. We are also willing to adapt to demand on the market. This has been seen above all when it came to the contrasting of the sugar beet area: That's where everyone pulled a line. The 38 000 hectares have been reached in Austria, which ensures both sugar factories and thus jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just saying one thing: You know the scales of the past, in which you have placed the product on one side and on the other side the weight in order to weigh. I see the balance as follows: On the one hand, farmers are farmers, the products are our farmers, and on the other hand, consumers are on the other hand, and that must be in balance, then we can also provide for the future. This is what our farmers are doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44372	Next speaker: Mr Lukas Brandweiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44396	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! I would like to begin by thanking all civil servants as an ÖVP Civil Service Officer, whether in the rescue service, in nursing homes, in hospitals or other facilities. They make a really important and indispensable contribution – a warm thank you! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] I am also particularly pleased that we were only recently allowed to award the civilians of the year 2019. Of course, all young men make an excellent contribution, but some do more and above all with a warm commitment. I think it is also important and right that we bring these in front of the curtain and thank all young men and, of course, honor them. I am also looking forward to honouring civil servants this year next year. But that won't be easy. Why? – Especially this year, of course, civil servants have also been extremely challenging and it is still. Many have volunteered. I may be reminded that in March we first convened the extraordinary civil service in the history of the Second Republic, and I am proud that so many young men have volunteered and have once again joined the service of society. At the same time, however, I would like to remind you of what I said in my last speech on civil service here in plenary: I hope that we will never come back to a situation where we must call for extraordinary civil service. This is still true, but it is good to know and, of course, gives the population security that, if necessary, we can resort to this strategic reserve. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At present, the situation among the institutions is very tense. Because of the Covid situation, there are also a number of failures there due to quarantine measures, because the virus does not, of course, make a bow around these persons, which makes them fail. Civil servants are constantly being sought, at a time when the number of vulnerable young men is falling due to the low birth rate. Maybe just a few numbers on this: Last year, some 14,600 men were employed as civilians in 1,700 organisations. That's about 40 to 45 percent of the decent military officers. Of course, I hope that we will face up to and compensate for the planned introduction of partiality. One important aspect I would like to address is the following: Civil service, of course, also opens doors to the Office of Honor. Some 27 percent of men remain volunteered for at least a few years, and around 6 percent then even work mainly. That is why I am glad that the 2021 budget includes the necessary funds of EUR 60 million for civil service. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mrs. Minister, and your staff very much for the good cooperation. I am convinced that together we will achieve a lot of good for civil service.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44454	Next speaker: Mr Franz Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44478	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Congratulations on what my previous speakers have said and also on the increase in the budget in your ministry – the ministry, which is so important for our rural areas, for the valleys and mountain areas in our country, and in which you have done an excellent job throughout. Thank you very much! Friday, 13th. March is for me a nightmare, which I will probably not forget in my life. We locked up with Tyrol a country that had just had a flourishing winter season, we were able to lock it within two, three days – and I never thought we might get back into a similar situation. Summer was good, there were many reliefs and accompanying measures – from the revenue reduction to the revenue replacement – which this Federal Government has created and which allows us to live in this crisis, support us and keep the location Austria safe. However, the infections of the last days have caused us to be once again in a lockdown and now face the situation that we may not be able to start the season. Mr Hauser has already spoken about planning. Of course, planning is important. All my colleagues are asking for it, but there is, of course, a lot of uncertainty in the market. The Germans have a genuine travel warning with five days of compulsory quarantine after return, so that we also do not know what will be possible in our markets. However, it would be good – and Mrs. Col. Neßler, tourism spokesman, could take care of her Federal Minister Anschober – if not the same thing happened in spring when we needed six weeks between the lockdown and the start of the season in order to be able to put our ski resorts and lifts into operation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] [[Abg. Lightness: That's right!]] It's not supposed to happen this time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] We only have three weeks. Just one more thing: We're all talking about Christmas not taking place. So you have a few numbers: Over two thirds of the winter guests come to Austria to ski or snowboard. 55 million ski days in Austria ensure that we are the number one in the world, and we are 41 million nights. [[Phone: Number one...]] The annual gross turnover of cable cars users is 11.2 billion euros. VAT alone is 1.7 billion euros, value added is about 6 billion euros. This is the one and a half budget of the state of Tyrol. The Austrian cable car industry secures some 140 000 jobs, 17 000 for cable cars and 100 000 for other industries. In the time between the 1.11. and the 15.1. we have before us, i.e. at Christmas, around 27 percent of the original performances take place. That is, in the event of a delay in the season to mid-January, we lose a quarter to a third of our sales. That's 3 to 4 billion euros – so we know what we're talking about, and so you stop playing easily with these companies. [[Abg. Schellhorn:... the season...!]] Another thing: Mountaineer villages are not known as cashcows and are also not overloaded. There will be green economies, but I do not know if many black numbers come out. Only one thing was made clear: Without a ski offer, the winter season is reduced to about 15 percent in the mountain villages. If you charge city hotels throughout Austria, it is still 35 percent. So let's leave the church in the village and the skiers on the mountain! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44577	Next speaker: Mr Manfred Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44598	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger, I would like to begin by congratulating him very warmly on this budget. It is a sign of stability for agriculture, and I believe that we need this especially during this time. In the last one and a half years, a lot has been achieved. I want to turn time back a little bit – maybe a year and a half. At the time, it was not certain how the EU's finances looked forward to continuing with the common agricultural policy. It was not certain whether we could ensure co-financing throughout Austria, nor was it certain how we deal with the effects of climate change. These are three key points that you have achieved well together with your staff, together with your team, with your negotiations at EU level – and I would like to congratulate you once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, we have many uncertainties and problems in agriculture – corona as a result, or see also the forest package in the climate sector or sugar production in Leopoldsdorf in Lower Austria. These very things are essential and important for the continuation of our family businesses. I would like to congratulate you, Mrs Federal Minister, for always having a goal in mind: to maintain the small-structured, sustainable and ecological family farms and to ensure self-sufficiency for consumers, such as sugar, and thus to guarantee food produced regionally. This is, I believe, a very essential value, and there are two essential objectives that we must pursue in agriculture, and that is what you do perfectly – thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to come very briefly to broadband development: For me, broadband development in our region, the Upper Austrian Inn district, is quite essential. I can't leave the statement by my colleague, double farmer, that there's only one chaos. It will be very much increased, and I would also like to praise the budget in this regard – because we are investing 261 million euros next year. This is 41 million euros more than last year, which is a very important contribution to local policy in our rural regions, and especially in the current crisis, broadband development through distance learning, but also through the home office, gets a very different dimension. I believe that we are on a very good path, especially the federal states support this, and this also creates a turbo of investments in rural areas. That's an essential part. Finally, just a short while to the municipality package: It is very unfortunate if I always hear from the SPÖ Members that nothing goes on in the community package in the area of community assistance. We have decided 1 billion euros. The local authorities pick this up in part at this time. It is true that not all the communities have yet collected it, but we must also give the communities time in this regard, and if we judge the whole impact on the communities, I can already say one thing because of many conversations with other mayors: that in this year – if we had not the second lockdown – we would have just gotten through the rounds financially. However, it is true: If the Corona crisis is developing this way, we will need additional help. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] We will certainly not abandon our communities, and I believe we are all talking about d’accord, that we also have to provide for the budgets of the communities so that compensation is possible. The local authorities have done a lot in the crisis, they have been the first contact points, and I am also pleased with the federal system, which can always act quickly in these crises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] People in the individual small communities know their people and can help beyond what is necessary on the spot – I think that is very important, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44664	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44689	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The enormous impact of the Corona crisis on tourism in Austria has already been discussed in detail. As a member of the Committee on Tourism and Culture, I would like to stress how much these two areas are interconnected and partly dependent on each other. So many cultural institutions – Festivals – live above all by an international audience, i.e. by tourism. Vice versa has said 70 percent of all Vienna tourists come before Corona because of culture, for example in the Spanish court riding school, founded 450 years ago, immaterial world cultural heritage of Unesco. This world-famous institution, of course, also hits the crisis very strongly, because it achieved 94 percent of its own coverage last year and experienced a visitor record with 385,000 guests, 85 percent of them internationally. Mrs Minister, thank you very much for ensuring the continuation of the Spanish court riding school for the first time! It will certainly also need support next year. Tourism in Austria will still need a lot, in any case also the Austrian advertising, because if the crisis is likely to be over soon, Austria must again be represented as a top holiday and cultural country in the minds of people. For this to happen now and in the coming years, the Austrian advertising, which already works with high pressure throughout the entire Corona year, requires Austria to remain present in the target markets. It communicates emotional interconnectedness, confidence, but also hand-resistant facts, how holiday in Austria can hopefully work again soon, with a 3I strategy: inform, inspire, anchor image. That's a very good thing. Since I myself come out of advertising professionally: There for many years a sentence by Henry Ford has been quoted: “He who does not advertise dies.” – Austria has no need to worry about this, because Minister Köstinger has financially equipped the Austrian advertising. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44725	Next speaker: Mr Joachim Schnabel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44749	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the monitors! High house! In this summer, many people in our home country have made vacations and Austria's regions have been perceived as beautiful and worth living. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of course that the rural regions receive these praises; this is achieved by the diligence, the power of action and the commitment of the local people. It is only not a matter of course that this will remain the case in the future. There are challenges, one of them is urbanization. We will respond, among other things, with this budget and with the objectives of impact mentioned in this budget, in this sub-division. This includes a strong, self-confident region. The regions are particularly strong with very good infrastructure. In the sense of internal justice, we need not only smartcitys, but also smartvillages, we need a smart region that provides a modern broadband infrastructure as a basis – a bandwidth not at the speed of the letter-tub, but with modern, powerful gigabyte networks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Minister, I am very grateful to you for your personal commitment and for making 261 million euros available for expansion next year. In my home country, therefore, 68 municipalities can implement projects. This will create a competitive balance for existing on-the-spot businesses and give the regions the opportunity to set up new businesses under modern conditions. We also need this infrastructure in terms of climate change and environmental protection, because there is only decentralized economic development, local jobs and, accordingly, local value creation. I've been talking about self-confidence: We want to strengthen the self-confidence of the regions. A means of doing this is the Leader Action Group, and that is also being financed. I would also like to thank the many ladies and gentlemen who work in the various local institutions in the regions involved in Leader Regional Management, the Country Departments. It is only with their personal work that it is possible to develop our regions, our rural areas and in the future a viable landscape, a to provide a viable home for these 3.6 million people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44795	Next speaker: Mrs Carina Reiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44819	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers! In the area of agriculture, regions and tourism, we can look forward to a total increase in the budget. This is a clear signal for rural areas, but also for rural family farms. Protection against natural hazards such as floods, avalanches, rock strikes or slope slides is essential for our rural area. The fact that the funds for action programmes such as flood protection in Austria and the avalanche protection programmes are covered by 248 million euros is important and correct. In 2019 alone we have been able to protect 3 789 buildings in addition to hundreds of years of floods. The resources of the common agricultural policy and rural development are also ensured. This also means a certain degree of security for our farmers. This system of subsidies and compensation payments actually exists in its origin in order to make the food possible. As a result, the CAP funds are actually a huge consumer promotion. One should also be aware of this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The farmers do a lot for our society. A core task is food production. However, in order for farmers to be able to ensure this in the future, fair prices, adequate compensation payments and a good portion of appreciation are needed.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44858	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kühberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44883	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! I would like to congratulate Mr Schnedlitz on his speech earlier on from the Freedom Party – I would also like him to go out with a prepared speech and have presented something for agriculture – but, ladies and gentlemen, the praise comes too early. The Liberal Party already has a blue eye with regard to farmers in Austria. Mr. Schmiedlechner – he can actually correct this if he wants – must have confused Niki Berlakovich with Mrs. Dagmar Belakovich. Why? - Because it was she who was on the 18th. In June of this year, here in the House, the increase in the farmer's pension has criticised. That's what she criticized. So, dear Freedom Party: Where are you there for the farmers? - There's a blue eye left. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] As I said, Mr Schmiedlechner can make an actual correction if it is not right. Now we go a little further to the Red – apologies, to the Pinks, but those in terms of agriculture, as in Vienna, apparently already look red and represent red politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Dear colleague double farmer – she's sitting there – you stand out here and say: Well, who knows if in ten, 20, 30 years there are still farmers with us in Austria? – If it were after NEOS, that is to say, red – apologies, pink; I don’t know now anymore – if it were after NEOS, Mrs. Colleague, then there would really be no farmers in ten years, because you are always against it and always climb to the barricades if, like the drought package for example, we wanted to increase the budget for the farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the dear SPÖ. Mr Wimmer, Mrs Herr – double red sees that, or triple, a bit of Reisinger is now inside –: You always look red with these compensation payments, you criticize them and make house out of peasant bashing. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'm mayor in my community. Maybe you too, ladies and gentlemen, go to a guest house from time to time and talk to the people there! I was involved in a discussion on the compensatory payments and on which there was also criticism. That's where a saying has been remembered. An old farmer got up and said: Ladies and gentlemen, these compensatory payments are actually not given to us farmers – no, the consumer receives them, because it is only by these compensation payments that we can make for diligent farmers in Austria to produce high-quality and cheap food. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: I'm emphasizing this to 100 percent. The Green Report also states that there are areas in agriculture in which there is no longer a means of living of the proceeds without compensatory payments. That is why I am very grateful for the fact that, for the first time after 2002, the CAP payments for agriculture and forestry are once again a plus. This is an important sign for our rural family farms, for environmentally friendly agriculture and, above all, for security of supply. Yes, there are many requirements and challenges, and they rise every year: I call the animal welfare, the quality standards, but also the cow's judgment, the birch infestation, the corona virus and its effects, climate change. We farmers are the first to be affected. As I said at the beginning of my speech and whatever is criticized: These compensatory payments benefit all of us, in terms of environmental protection, in terms of security of supply and in terms of quality food at low prices.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44970	Mrs Cornelia Eckerzu has spoken on an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e44997	Madam President. In his speech, Member Kühberger said that we were Social Democrats against compensation. - That's not true. On the contrary: We have always called for higher and higher compensation for mining areas in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45028	Next speaker: Mr Josef Hechenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45060	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I can start with a positive topic, including in lockdown times: Even in difficult times, there are no problems, no food shortages, because our Austrian farm families work around the clock and provide food in sufficient quantity and high quality – in the end this is also our job or our job. But I think a subject is very crucial: On the one hand, we have stagnating product prices – these are the real challenges for the peasant families – and on the other hand, increasing demands from society, and, I think, there are also very, very strong political parties who think every day about how to make the work of the peasant families difficult and how to control it even more – the issue of bureaucracy. Just yesterday we saw again how the subject of bashing has been more or less culminating in agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] On the farmer's pensioners, one tends to get 850 euros of pension, on the minimum pensioner who gets 920 euros in Vienna, one is not jealous. [[Call the SPÖ:Well, wrong!]] That's not fair, that's not honest, that's not all right. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Thank God we have stable framework conditions with the CAP for the next seven years. Now it's about distributing justly. We must strengthen youth, we must strengthen the production of agriculture, we have to consider mainly the issue of animal welfare. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] It is very crucial from my point of view to say clearly: The farm families were the first environmentalists, so the common agricultural policy with the Öpul is a good orientation and a good support. Farmers work hard, not for 45 years, but as soon as they can work, and as long as they allow the body to work, our farm families work hard. That's what we're very happy to do. We need a little appreciation. In this sense: Thank you for the attention! In the end, I think one important thing is that we simply carry outside, too, that agriculture is indispensable, because it provides food for us all year, 365 days.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45110	Next speaker: Mr Johann Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45137	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! But especially appreciated ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Yes, I'm a farmer's child, it was my father, it's my brother, it's my sister, and generations before us, too. My family stands for our daily bread, for life in nature and with nature and also for a vocation. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Farmers don't think in ten-year plans, they think in generations. They take responsibility for their country, feed people, and therefore they have a right to such trust, a right to respect, a right to respect their property. Today there are many fears of existence. In the last 30 years, about 50 percent of the courts have locked up. Why? – They capitulated at low prices, at high land prices, and also resigned because of bureaucracy. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Trade leads – allow me to express it! – a cruel price fight. If necessary, the goods will be imported from abroad. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] We don't know how they are produced exactly, but essentially, they're cheap to buy on the shelf. Consumers expect maximum performance at lowest prices. The grill may cost whatever it wants, the meat should be as free as possible. Media and public view in agriculture the scapegoat of the nation. Agriculture is for many of the climate killers, the water spillers, the insect killers and so on and so on. Everyone believes to know how it goes, and demands it from us. The prices eventually pay the farmers, the families, the country. If we're honest, we'll all pay for it ourselves. What would Austria look like without our courts? But the truth then is that our farmers feel cut off from the market, disdained by society, partially abandoned by politics, which we heard yesterday clearly – I remember yesterday, Mr Wimmer's speech. All our farmers need is fair conditions. Thank God we have a minister – Elisabeth Köstingerist – who is still fighting for our peasantry, who rises into the ring and sets up a corresponding budget so that we can still look positively into the future. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[New call to the SPÖ.]] In this sense: Thank you for this budget, and the farmers are all right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45212	Member of the European Parliament Irene Neumann-Hartberger is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45237	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Just the fact that I was 34 years old. The speaker on the agenda for agriculture, regions and tourism shows us how complex this area is. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, it is only 3 to 4 percent of the population working in agriculture. However, all Austrians benefit from their services, because agriculture creates many jobs in the downstream and downstream areas. I know that everyone in this hall is aware that all the culinary pleasures we take to us daily are in the most original form products of our agriculture and it is a matter of course that the shelves are filled around the clock these days. Agriculture has been and is now again faced with massive price losses in many areas due to the lack of sales in tourism, but some have seen the crisis as an opportunity to specialize and go new ways in marketing. In the same notch, our minister-led network of culinarys is hit with the further developed AMA-Genuss-Region seal. Because quality also needs control, some 1,600 gastronomy companies, direct marketers and manufacturers have already been certified, expressing their concern for regional products, quality and origin guaranteed. This initiative supports gastronomy and rural family farms, with the additional effect that jobs remain in the region and that shorter transport routes protect the environment. With their openness and creativity, our farmers always find new ways and thus future opportunities and thus ensure their income with additional legs for original production. Holiday at the farm, private accommodation companies as well as bust hams and heurigs suffer just as much from the lockdown, and therefore also at this point a warm thanks to our wife ministers, who ensures the revenue replacement for these companies to the same extent as for gastronomy and tourism. In agriculture we know that we cannot control and control everything, such as the weather or world market prices, but we are used to accepting things that one cannot change and yet do the best of them with confidence and diligence. Creating a framework is the responsibility of policy. The increased 2021 budget provides a solid and reliable basis for securing the production of agriculture and forestry and rural areas. Because yesterday's thanks were so smiled: Please and thank you are fundamental values that you teach children first. Thank you for expressing appreciation and saying thank you is not hurting. A great thank you at this point to our farmers and to our wife Minister, who fights day by day for the Austrian agriculture and forestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45288	On the sub-division of agriculture, regions and tourism, I now have no mention of words. That is why I declare this subject area terminated. [[17:40:09]] UG 30: Education UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45321	We now come to the breakdowns 30: Education, as well as 31: Science and Research. On this we will carry out the debates under one. I welcome Mr Heinz Fässmann in our midst. The first speaker was Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid. I'll give her the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45349	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters at home! Yes, Federal Minister, more damage could not have been done with the downfall of regular teaching of the presence. The pedagogicals and educators to encourage them to offer innovative, creative online lessons for the children at home on the screens along their hourly board, but at the same time to ask them to take care of the children in small groups at school and also to teach them and to teach them with them, that is not possible at best. This spatula simply cannot succeed – especially if there is still a lack of basics. The feedback we received by mail, but also in the media – the “Falter” has really summarized it under the title “The Great Failure” – speak a clear language. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] To the schools and to the educators today, that under-employed teachers – this is not my choice of words, which comes from the ministry – should be used for care and other things at school, I find already really cynical; in addition to that, more. Teachers still report missing tablets, others that children have a terminal device, but not enough data volume at home to work at all. Others say Schoolfox is acquired, but not yet installed. One has few children at school, the other have 70.80 percent of the children at school. So there are very, very different conditions. At this point, my warmest thanks to the educators in our schools, who with their creativity, commitment and passion make school work in this difficult time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The sadness of the whole story is: All of this would not have been necessary with a clever test strategy that we have called for since the summer. Since the summer we ask these and say: Please include pedagogues in a screening program, similar to the one in care, similar to the one in the hospital, so you can detect infected people very quickly. Furthermore, the use of protective masks, FFP2 masks, which have now been ordered – a little late, as I mean – is essential as well as a really early equipment of students and educators not only with end-end devices, but also with proven learning platforms. Then the students in regular schooling, in regular classrooms and not re-cast daily in small groups could sit in the school, and in the afternoon in the afternoon they will be mixed again – and that in times of Corona. The effect on our children is immense, we know. Not only short-term educational losses, but also medium and long-term losses range from 100 to 200 euros of income loss for each single month in the school lockdown, and economic losses and costs are 2 billion euros per month with closed schools. The Minister of Education will now once again explain to me that he would have provided in the budget, because for 2021, 235 million euros are available for the purchase of computers in the budget and 10,000 terminals have already been purchased in the spring. These computers, budgeted with 235 million euros, land in our classrooms in the school year 2021/2022, only in the 5th and 6th. School level, and three teachers per class are kindly given one more. But we already know from the first phase of the lockdown that there are 140 000 children who do not have their own devices at home. What else is in the budget? – A narrow-track index, budgeted at EUR 15 million once for next year – and that was it; as if Corona were not as if we had no problem. But we urgently need more money for funding, for funding hours, for educators and educators, for support staff et cetera, et cetera. Sibylle Hamann has still carried out in the “Falter” that you would take an incredible amount of money into your hands – yes, but there is nothing to be found in the budget. What is not inside is the expansion of schools all day long, because they could really help now: There would be enough time to work with the children, to promote them, to pick up deficits, but also the possibility to map, install and have terminal equipment in these schools in order to compensate for these shortages at home at these schools all day long. This contributes to education justice and can reduce deficits. In all day school, the children are no longer dependent on their parents' educational talent or their wallets, as in the half-day school, and the budget for these schools has been halved in the last legislative period. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[17:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45501	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Rudolf Tashner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45525	Madam President. High house! Dear Mrs Hammerschmid, perhaps you have seen Wizany’s cartoon in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” (I think it was yesterday or yesterday). It was reported what means the socialist party has against the Corona crisis: That was called Suderol for certain reasons, and that was also to be heard in your speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] In fact, it is very strange that you can still say – and I join your thanks to the teachers, of course – that school succeeds. Yes, school will succeed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. will succeed, of course, because of the great commitment of those who work in school, and of course this is recognized – well, quite clearly! – but this so to speak: We're before the abyss, so you're in a different universe than in Austria, I can tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must also be said: We are talking here about the 2021 budget, so I would like to return to the figures on which it comes. Indeed, we have more money in the field of education – it is €9.75 billion in education – which is an increase of 3.7 percent and thus a real huge increase – and in the field of research and science we have more than €5 billion in addition and thus an increase of 8.7 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, these figures speak for themselves, namely that, because of the work the government is doing here, Austria is really good in education and in science and research. I think it should be recognized, even if you think we are facing the abyss, which of course we are not doing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In addition, it could be said that: They say: This money is being spent wrong! – Of course, you have experience in this, Mrs. Federal Minister a. D., and also the Federal Ministers in front of you, but we will spend this money, every cent. For example, I would just like to mention the 235 million euros that we invest in digital education – the colleagues that I think I am talking about. We don't do this in the house, puss: There you have tablets and now you go!, but we have set up an eight-point program in which a precise strategy is developed, how digitization is to succeed in school: namely, first of all, digitalization as a competence to deal with this digital device, digitalization as an aid to the other subjects – in addition, mathematics is not at all the main issue, because if you want to understand mathematics, most of the computer is the biggest obstacle – and digitization is also in the sense that the digital device retains the condition of humana, so it is important to split this dialectics. These are high demands that we combine with these 235 million euros. We will set these high demands, and we will also succeed with the cooperation of the colleagues who teach in schools, but also with the help of the wise government on the part of the Federal Minister. I think you can take an example of that. Maybe take your critical look and see how to do it right!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45601	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45622	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Hope dies most recently. In this case, it is the hope of our children and their parents for a soon return to the teaching of the presence as well as the hope that the damage that has arisen and will still arise can actually be repaired again. In contrast to any scientific evidence and also to any organization dealing with education policy in Austria, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has the Schools closed. He sent our children back to Distancelearning alone. Starting from the Minister of Health, the Minister of Education, the Corona Commission, the Catholic Family Association, children's friends, industrial associations, the Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Physicians, Wifo, IHS, Caritas, the Austrian Society for Child and Youth Medicine, and, and, all have said: Let the schools open! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Vogl.]] They have said so, above all, because the schools are not the drivers of the infection. You know that too, Minister of State. And, with all due respect, Professor Taschner, the damage is done, the educational gaps are there, the educational residues are there, and we do not know if this can be remedied. Motivation and day structure of our children have been lost, social isolation has led to massive damage, fears of the future have arisen. A whole generation of coronas has crystallized out and has grown up. With its measures, the government has then also driven a rope into our society, which is now manifesting itself particularly in the school sector: Those parents who have no other means of care and now send their children to school for care are punished by those parents who have the opportunity to look after their children at home, with evil eyes and with harsh criticism. The government would be well advised if it were to try to bring out this cone that was set up by it, and the government would also be well advised if it were to make sure that the subsequent damage now caused by this second school lockdown, which was decided by ÖVP Federal Party observer on its own initiative, would be removed. In this sense, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] By the way, the Federal Chancellor would also be well advised if, instead of the third wave, he announced the third lockdown as he did today in the media, he would ensure that one gives people hope and that he broadcasts something positive outside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] High house! Our children need social contacts, they need motivation, they need hope for the future, they need a day structure, they need courage and confidence and they have the right to attend school – that is what they have to give them and the government has to do it! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[17:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45786	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45811	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! We are talking about the budget today and the number has already fallen: EUR 235 million. They're in the budget for laptops and digital devices for students, and that's a lot of money once. But it is not only a lot of money, it is also the redemption of a truly large, comprehensive promise that Austria actually made decades ago, namely that children in Austria get all the resources they need for schooling and learning, free of charge from the state, regardless of their origin. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Hammerschmid is right: We all hear the reports from practice in schools. There are, of course, problems with distance learning. Of course, there are still - which is a scandal - schools without working Wi-Fi, there are of course still teachers who make all of this from their private devices, and there are many children who have no devices at all. There we can point our finger at us and say that we have to answer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] But if you are quite honest, then you know that the digitization deficits in this country go back decades and that we have accumulated huge failures that you might be able to pick up a little in a year, but not get away in principle. You should know that! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] But we are dealing with the problem now, with a really big leap – the 235 million euros have already been mentioned. I'm going to take a little bit of a historical now, so that you can see the dimension of this thing a little bit. How was that in Austria in the 1960s? There were the bourgeois children in the schools. They came to school with proper, solid shoes and sat with clean booklets and new books in the class because their parents could afford these books. And then there were the children who were sometimes called the mufflers. We just talked about the farmers earlier, Werner Kogler always loves to say this: He always smells when he comes to school, a little bit more to stable. In the 1960s, these children had the broken books that the teachers had pulled out of the drawer, because they were third-hand and were always passed on. What's going on with kids? – This is a signal, especially when we think of the higher schools: You don't belong here with your broken books! Why do I say that? – Look How children work with laptops today and how there are differences! That's exactly the same as with the books back then! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] There are those who have a new Apple model every two years, there are the others who only have the phones with the broken display, and the many who have some Uralstlaptop. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kollross.]] He may have donated the neighbor's work colleague because the battery doesn't work so well anymore. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If you think historically about what we're doing with this money and the permanent program we're setting up, you'll find: We do nothing but what the school book campaign did in the 1970s. That's something you should be proud of! What we do is: We ensure the same, new, uniform quality equipment for all children, so that all children in our school system have the same opportunities. This is at least one of the big and great pieces in this new budget, in this budget for the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45904	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e45925	Madam President. Minister! High house! First of all: Hut off, Minister Fässmann, that at least you, as the only person in this federal government, fought last Saturday to ensure that schools remain open, together with many experts, with the Corona Commission, who has also spoken against the closure, with the opposition parties and also with the educational representatives of the countries. As we see, however, this has not been useful, because obviously only one in this Federal Government has something to say, namely the Federal Chancellor. When I look at the educational budget, I see: It's impotent and visionless. It is a continuation of the existing situation and, apart from Mrs Hamann's just mentioned and raised 235 million euros for digitization, there is no new thing in fact. [[Abg. Salzmann: Go! ... is completely new!]] The digitalization offensive – I believe we are all in it – is coming to an agreement now, so next year, because the need through Covid was so great. This time has led us to see that digitisation has fallen asleep in Austria. You can now say that these were the previous governments, but you have to learn a little bit in such a crisis, get in the way and get at the pace. This past account, which happened in the 1960s and the 1970s in the field of education, is of no use to us today, but we must look into the future – and I have missed that in your speech, Mrs Hamann. The crisis makes much clear, the educational sheath is dispersing and, on the other hand, nothing is pictured in the budget at all. There is no additional funding programme, there is no offer for different student groups, such as the maturants who do not know how to proceed. This also applies to young people who are now completing compulsory school and many more other children. We need investment, I'm just saying the keyword ventilation – that's already arrived in other countries, in Austria, I don't think. There is nothing planned at all, although you had six months to put something on your feet, to learn from the experiences of spring, what we need and what we should urgently implement. What did you do? – There are 15 million euros for disinfectants and masks. This is as much money as is planned for the project 100 schools, which has once been a green prestige project and is now under research in the Ministry. We need more than 100 schools, and we also need more than 15 million euros for schools with special challenges. It's getting even clearer now. Since it hurts the Greens and also the ÖVP here so much that they are no longer or are not members of the new Vienna city government, I also brought you something. In Vienna – and it is good that Pink is doing NEOS – there will be 120 million euros more per year for education in the coming years. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There will be the largest school development programme, there will be a lot of investment in support and social education staff. The focus is on elementary pedagogy, not only in quantitative terms, but above all in qualitative expansion. To show you the comparison between these 15 million euros for 100 schools and what we're going to do in Vienna, I brought you something. Here you can see the difference per year 120 million euros compared to 15 million euros spent in the Federal Government for Focus Schools. [[a table with a column diagram whose column is labeled “Türkis-Green” and its other column is “Red-Pink”]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I think this is a contribution from Vienna to closing or at least reducing the educational shear in the next few years. Now a brief comment on the school closures – Mr. Tashner will probably be back on the way now to actually correct me, because the schools are not closed –: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] There is no teaching in schools, and the schools are not open. If you ask the people how they perceive it, many people will tell you that the schools are not open. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: This was mistransmitted!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] It is also a question of the importance of education for children and young people in this country – and we would have expected more from the Greens, who do not support education, but also repeat and even defend the statements of the Federal Chancellor. Last year they put on: “Who would choose the education?” – So I don’t think the greens are going to be anymore. [[Call the FPÖ: The Greens certainly don't!]] [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] Other countries present it: They have the same problems in the Covid crisis as we do, but they only go down public life and leave schools open – Ireland, for example – of course, with security measures such as masks and a successful test strategy. We are very, very far away from both of them, although we have been demanding this for months. I think you all will agree that the children are real heroes in this crisis. We have already told them very, very much, and at the moment we think they are very, very much too. That is why it would be responsible and forward-looking to take control of money and set up a package that will also help children and young people, not just other areas of life, because these children are the ones who will pay back the entire token that is now almost received. I think it would be appropriate to put in a good package as well. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] I would also like to say something about the science budget – we always praise NEOS if something is good, and I also want to do it –: It is good that the universities and also the colleges get so much more money. That's really good. What we find less gratifying is that there will be a new technical university in Upper Austria. This is obvious before every country election in Upper Austria now Usus: First there is a medical faculty, then there is a technical university. The question is what is planned for the next election. We find that very, very exciting. A federal politician and a country politician will certainly be able to get something back on the phone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pöttinger.]] We are always talking about the fact that we want to keep up with international science in the field of science, open up international, want to be at eye level with very, very important scientific sites – and then a new university is almost born in this way. That's not standard internationally. I don't think that's going to be acceptable in this community either. What is beyond dispute is that we need a focus on innovation, technology and digitization and that we also have a lack of IT professionals. It's out of the question. It is a question of developing a location concept where there is a look at what exists, where synergies can be raised, where gaps are – and only then should there be a location. It's not possible that the location is fixed and then everything else is built around. A short word on the budget of basic research: This does not increase as proportionally as the additional resources for the institutions, that is a pity. I have already said this in the Committee on Budgets. We NEOS believe that this is important because competition naturally brings innovation and is important for research institutions. We don't think that's very ambitious. The funds for the National Foundation also expire at the end of the year. There is a plan in the government programme to establish the Fund for the Future of Austria. It is probably not too far from what one can see from the fact that the research institutions have launched a petition to call on the Minister of Finance to finally implement and also to teach this fund to the future of Austria. I would therefore ask you to speak to the Minister for Finance in this regard and to put pressure on them so that the research institutions can plan for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46039	Mrs Sibylle Hamann spoke on a point of order. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] – You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46070	Yes, according to § 58. Mr Künsberg Sarre expressly wished she had previously said that the schools were not open. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Go, stop!]] I am correct: the schools are open, not only for care, but also for support in learning for those who need it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46110	A further word on the actual correction was made by Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46145	In her speech, Member Sibylle Hamann claimed that all children received their resources free of charge from the state, the computers were meant. - That's wrong. In fact, there is a 25 percent self-esteem. Even in the budget, you can see the 6.3 million euros of revenue that are budgeted out of this restraint that comes from the parents' pockets. It also concerns not all children, but those in the 5th and 6th respectively. School level.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46180	Next speaker is Mrs Maria Theresia Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46201	High house! Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear Seers! At the very beginning, as a native Upper Austrian, I am allowed to go to the TU Linz, which you have become elated: I think that from the very beginning a TU would be a challenge, although we need so many professionals in this field, even though we have a technology location in Upper Austria, although we have an internationally excellent university with this university, I already find a bit, honestly, cockbucks. [[Abg. Kassinger: We already have three, that's enough!]] Let's see what's going on. I'm sure it'll be an excellent institute. Maybe we'll keep talking when there's her. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second – that's what I wanted to say today – is: This is a day of joy for research. Now I hear – I can't believe it at all – that's a budget that's not ambitious. I don't quite understand. I can now produce different key figures, but there is almost 20 percent more for basic research. We increase from 540 million to 660 million euros. So I don't understand where you see a crisis. They don't exist. On the contrary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Künsberg Sarre: International...!]] I would like to express my express thanks to the Minister. I know he has made strong efforts to ensure that we have a courageous budget in the field of science and, above all, in the field of research, but also in the field of education. This can really be seen in the field of research. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Blimlinger.]] We're just creating the FTI strategy. This is what we are finally trying to become a leader in innovation, and we have been doing this for some time now. But I am sure that this will create a strategy in particular in areas of priority that we have in Austria, in the green-tech field, in the life science field, in the industry 4.0, which will lead us both in basic research and in applied research, but above all in this knowledge transfer. As a result, we are also in the process of creating the pact. This pact, ladies and gentlemen, is reflected in the Research Finance Act which we discussed here in June; it wants to give planning security to non-university research and research funding institutions. How often have we heard that it is so unambitionated, there is no growth path? Plus 19 percent is available for these facilities. I think that can really be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My speaking time is already going to the end, so there are some priorities I would like to highlight: Regarding universities, we have finally managed to implement the Excellence Initiative – I think that is very important – for example, the Cluster of Excellence, where we really want to set up cross-country cooperations and bring the best minds to Austria. I think that was very important. They have been working for this for a long time – thank you for that! Now we can do this. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you! Thank you!]] Secondly – and this is very important to me – the topic of knowledge transfer. Austria is good at promoting the exchange between the economy and science. It is important to me, however, that we become even stronger here that they work together even better. I am very pleased that the spin-off programme will continue. Three excellent spin-offs have emerged. There are great initiatives, such as Hermann Hauser's spin-off Austria initiative, which aims to produce 1,000 new start-ups by 2030. I think we need exactly such initiatives. It is important for universities that they also demand third-party funds from the economy in this context that cooperation between the economy and science works. In this sense I would also be pleased if perhaps parts of the basic funding of universities were to be a bit bound by the fact that universities recruit third-party funds from the economy. A short last point: Now that we have to take the last steps, this is actually at the National Foundation. We have undertaken in the government programme that we are recruiting a future fund for Austria. I think these 140 million euros are important. It is up to us to put in place a concept here to set up this fund, to make it quick so that the funds for 2021 can be spent. That's important. I think then we actually did all the homework. – Mr Minister, thank you once again. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you! Thank you!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] I think this budget can be seen. If we build on it and actually implement the energy, then we can be happy; that must also be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46317	Mr Heinz Fässmann has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46338	High house! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My comments on the budget: The future fields of education, science and research are clearly winners of budgeting. The fact that I am glad about it is understandable, I am the competent minister of expertise. However, I would like to add that I am also happy as a citizen of this country, who knows exactly that the future capacity of a country depends on education, science and research. For the education budget, the UG 30, almost 1 billion euros will be available in 2024 compared to this year. After all, this is an increase of 11 percent. In the years 2021 to 2024, the total budget is 40 billion euros for educational purposes. In 2023, we first exceed the 10 billion euro limit for the UG 30. What is the money spent on? – The most important part is undoubtedly staff. Over 7.7 billion euros, 83 percent of the budget, are allocated to teachers. We continue to invest in the most important area of the education system. We, I believe, continue to ensure that the internationally recognizable care rate, the ratio of pupils to teachers, remains outstanding. We invest a total of 235 million euros in digitalisation, which has already been discussed. We will be the first to become the students of the 5th and 6th years of the year. Supply school level with digital terminals across the board. I know, Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger, Mrs Hammerschmid, your questions are: Why not earlier? – The answers are relatively simple: We are bound by the legal provisions of the federal procurement. Procurement of this scale must be tendered out in Europe. This is a process of six plus three months in total, which is within the framework of the Federal Procurement Act. I have to work properly. I ask that I do so, but I also ask for understanding that it remains a real milestone in this area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] By 2024, 67 million euros will be available for the introduction of ethics throughout secondary education. We carry out the proven school tests, starting with the 9th. School level, regular schooling. A decades-long discussion can thus be concluded. We want to get a better look at what can help schools deal better with social challenges. For this project, the 100-school project, 15 million euros are available, but well-known for the project, not for the roll-out. Why a project? – Mrs Künsberg Sarre, I think we need to know better than before what helps schools to deal with social challenges. I know that the standard answer is: more money, more staff and best distributed with the casting pot, but that's not the final answer and it's not a correct answer either. We want to find answers with this project. We have also established a scientific project accompaniment in cooperation with the University of Vienna – then we can take it into the regular budget. We invest in new school building. This is economic policy on the one hand and climate policy at the same time, because we are building on a very high climate-active standard, insulation, heat recovery, air cleaning, photovoltaics, overall a modern architecture that, as it were, creates pleasure and pleasure in teaching, but also in learning. In the new, next ship at least EUR 2.4 billion is reserved for this. I believe that this is also a strong signal for the regional economy, and this is included in the budget in the rental expenditure. We also have additional expenditure in the budget: 9 million euros for the resurgence of compulsory schooling, 12 million euros for the success project Teaching with Matura, 40 million euros for targeted language support, 32 million euros for the management of the Covid-Pandemy in 2020, another 19 million euros for this next year. I can still present to the House something about UG 31, science and research. The annual budget increases to around 5.3 billion euros in 2021. In the years 2021 to 2024, we will spend a total of EUR 31 22 billion on science in total. In 2024, the annual budget in the UG 31 will be at least EUR 5.9 billion. This is also a very significant increase compared to the years before. What will we spend on this increase? – The universities will receive almost EUR 1.4 billion in addition during the next service agreement period. Anyone who knows the university sector knows that this is a really huge sum. This is even more so than in the last service agreement period, a plus of 13 percent. A total of EUR 12.3 billion is available to universities in the next LV period, enabling them to further develop, focus on and improve care conditions. The budget of the UG 31 also allows for the realization of central construction projects at many university sites that have been discussed for decades. You certainly know the discussion about the House of Physics in Innsbruck – how long has it been discussed?; we can realize it – the Center of Physics in Graz, the Buchdepot in Vienna, a new institute building in Klagenfurt, construction projects related to the Mozarteum in Salzburg. All of this has been discussed for a long time, and now we can also finance and implement it within the framework of the next budgeting. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mrs Sarre – I still have to add that to the list of these construction projects – I cannot understand all of this as ambitious and future-frozen. I can understand a lot, but I can't follow this argument. We have another essential point within the framework of the UG 31, which we can also realize, that is the program Uni-Med-Impuls 2030. We have planned funds in the order of around 120 million euros for this in the coming service agreement period. What do we want to achieve with this? – An increase in the number of places in medical education – very important, long-term demand and, of course, absolutely justified against the background of an ageing society. In addition, we want to attract the study of general medicine in the context of medical education, which is also a very essential matter. For all those who know the rural area and discuss the fact that the agricultural doctors are going out there: That is what we are saying, with an increased force on general medicine, at least on the supply side we are creating a prerequisite. We will also be able to invest in those professorships that are extremely important in the fight against pandemics: in infectious, epidemiology, in public health and much more. I hope that we will soon have overcome the Covid crisis with the development of appropriate therapeutics or vaccinations, but other epidemics can come, no question at all, and other threats such as antibiotic resistance, for example, are already present. We must therefore, I believe, help and support the medical universities that have done great things in these various disciplines. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We also have a significant budget increase in the high school sector. We have been discussing this with the technical universities for a long time, and now we have been able to finance and grant something like 10 percent more on the funding rates from 1.1.2021 onwards. We invest a total of 1.5 billion euros in the high school sector in the period 2021 to 2024 – as much as never before. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My last comment concerns non-university research: We have a plus of 340 million euros up to 2024. You remember, I think, all the questions raised by Hannes Androsch in connection with the Research Finance Act. He has always asked, of course, purely rhetorical, whether the Research Finance Act is a praline box containing or is empty. I can give the answer today: Yeah, it's a praline box, but we also put in pralines. I think that these are very tasty pralines, because we can provide very important impulses with the budget in the field of non-university research, which are summarized in the FoFinaG, in the Research Finance Act. The Academy of Sciences is planning a center for anti-Semitism research, we can further develop the IST Austria together with the State of Lower Austria, and we can certainly strengthen and establish the Institute in the global league of basic research institutes. We can expand the LBG, the Ludwig-Boltzmann-Gesellschaft, and perhaps focus more on clinical research, because in clinical research we certainly have deficits. We have the FWF and we can consider the FWF with more resources and use this more resources for the Excellence Initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, you may remember my You unusual emotionality on this topic: There has been a proper budget. To describe this as visionless and ambitious is not associated with the figures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I have the hope that we will overcome the pandemic, but I have the certainty that we will put forward meaningful initiatives for the future of Austria, which allow UG 30 and 31 to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46408	Next speaker: Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46429	Federal Minister! It is certainly very disappointing for the parents or teachers who are watching and following this debate that you have not taken the opportunity to say something about the current situation in schools, because the situation – call it closed, because the children are not being taught – is a difficult, many teachers, many parents are in the head. [[Federal Minister Fässmann: This is the budget debate!]] Children suffer, parents are in some cases insoluble, and They just don't say anything about it. [[Federal Minister Fässmann: Because it is the budget debate!]] . It is the budget debate, but you have been addressed to current issues and you are of course free, on the contrary, we even expect you to respond to the debates here in Parliament, even if they are so important to the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have pretended to be business as usual, as if the situation were as usual, and have completely ignored that at the moment we are in a crisis situation that is particularly affecting your area. Who is to understand that children are not allowed to be taught, but are allowed to sell weapons?- Oh, my God! No one understands! For this I would like to make a statement that I would be very excited about the explanation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Salzmann: What kind of comparison is this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] This situation, this basic attitude continues at the universities. The students are now the second semester in Distancelearning. It doesn't take place anymore, just as we imagine it, just as it would be important. The discussion, the questioning, the getting to know other people, the discussion, the exchange, all this is no longer happening. [[Abg. Salzmann: But the Minister can't do that!]] The offers are better, sometimes not so good, some students are easier to do with them, some are not easy to do with them. There is no support for the students in the situation. The students have partly broken out the jobs, the economic situation is tense, the young people suffer very much from the fact that they have no prospects at the moment that many things, such as professional development, training, and life after them, have been questioned. It would be important to support the students, at least by saying: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Okay, it's a difficult situation that universities do what they can, sometimes better, sometimes worse, we'll charge you the tuition fees for a semester. – That didn't happen in the summer semester. Do it now in the winter semester! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You say the offers are there, the students should accept them! - It's not that simple. Then close your eyes to the situation and make the students feel ashamed. It is a really difficult situation in which young people should be taken under the arms. But what happens? – No, study fees are not recovered, study funding is not improved, it is not invested in student housing support. It's not in the budget at all. But what happens? – There will be a change in the law of study, which will make the situation of students worse. There's more money coming into the system, that's good and right, the universities get more funds. We would expect that this will also benefit students in support of the fact that the study situation is improving. But what are you doing? – They say: Those who do not reach such and so many points in a certain period of time are excluded from their studies. That is yes - I do not trust to say what I think I am going to do, otherwise I will rightly get from the President a call for order, but to do so in the present time, namely to turn the screw on again, that is not to understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, the president of your student organisation says: Rethink, that's not how it is! The chairmen of all universities in Austria say: You can't do that! So: Good thing there's going to be more resources at the universities, but students need to be supportive, not secular!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46544	Next come Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46566	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is remarkable, as Mrs Kuntzl, who has been for decades, has almost had to say, that science spokesperson is, persistently refuses reality and always claims things that simply and grippingly do not vote. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] You should hold on to facts, that would be quite good, evidence-based argument. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] In the period of the pandemic in the last study year, the examination activity of the students increased, not decreased because there was more time because it was so prepared. I'm the last one to say not to support students. The money that the universities are God Thank you or goddess thank you with the next – and I hope that you will also benefit from the overnight service agreement – is of course for the students. It is about improving the care conditions and maintaining the good. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Smoking.]] Therefore, there may be more testing activity. Before you claim it would now put on the thumb screws, it would be good if you would not only inform yourself of hearings, but wait until we send the UG's novice in review. Then you can still get excited about things that You don't even know, but you just supposed to have heard. To claim to the Senate President that this is incredibly undemocratic, I say just one word: Whoever claims that the Senate is a democratic body, I have to go to 19. ==References== In fact, there is a right to vote in the Curias. It cannot be your serious claim that this is democratic! It is an organ in which those most of them are least represented. There the professors, professors with half the votes, sit there, while it is the smallest group. And that's where the Social Democrats say, that's democratic? I'm sorry, I can't. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But now I have to come back to the Praline box from the Minister. It's not quite full, the praline box, as far as the path is concerned. We would have wanted ourselves – you too, Mr Minister, I think – more, but it is at least so that all the Pralines will get, perhaps not two or three, but at least one to get on with the Gusto, which we will then continue to serve with it. [[Abg. Martin Graf: These are more acid drops!]] Let me say two or three points that are important to me. It is very important to me that – and this is in the final phase, we have already discussed this – the FTI strategy and the FTI Pact are being driven forward. The spectrum ranges from basic research to applied research and from OeAD to Ludwig-Boltzmann-Gesellschaft, which are in the whole area. I am pleased when we have, so to speak, the little Petitesse-Pralinen box – better than none. This is the first step to go this path. It is also important to me in this context that programmes such as Sparkling Science continue. This very successful programme aims to arouse the interest of young people in science and research. For example, young people are to be introduced slowly to science, to research, to universities and even to the tertiary sector, including colleges or educational universities. One area that will certainly still have to be discussed is the announcement of a technical university in Upper Austria. Locations are still in the discussion – you know, we have country elections next year – and there are more and more cities reporting: Linz, Wels, Thalheim. In Hagenberg there is already a vocational college. [[Call the SPÖ:Steyr!]] Let's see how this goes on. A working group is set up. I think we should accompany this critically. Two points to conclude: The FPÖ has already meant in its OTS how terrible everything is, everything is cruel. The issue again calls for the Academy and the Applied Ones to be put together. - Certainly not! We don't spend the money on that. There are two wonderful universities. They stay that way, they're certainly not put together. Maybe a correction, because you have talked about the students and about the restriction with the 16 ECTS, even if you have no idea what's inside because you don't know it. In connection with bubbling students, you mentioned the Klubobfrau Maurer and the German Chancellor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I should like to point out to you that Mrs Klubobfrau Maurer has completed her studies with a Bachelor a long time ago. That means she's not a student anymore. And the Federal Chancellor is no longer enlisted as much as I know. He could start his studies again if he was no longer Federal Chancellor. That means that this would not apply to him, even if what you claim is happening at all. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] So, that remains so, and I am pleased that universities, science, research, education in the tertiary sector get such a good budget. I hope that the budget will also bring about what it has already achieved in the first performance agreement, an improvement, and that was the main objective: to improve student care conditions. This is a good year for students and universities. In addition, I believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46658	Next came Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46679	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Blimlinger has already documented impressively, where, among other things, there are differences between the liberals and the Greens. Undisputed is that much more money is available. That's good. None of the liberals dispute this or say it's bad now that there's much more money there. The question is always only – first –: Who pays the pralines we're talking about? - The taxpayer. We understand ourselves as a taxpayer of taxpayers and assume that this money is also used in a reasonable, targeted, efficient and effective manner. So I now share the optimism or the assessment of Mr Tashner that every cent is meaningful, only conditional. I wonder why you have been refusing to do so for years, or why the implementation of a real cost and performance account at universities would not go any further than this target-oriented, efficient resource allocation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not my essential issue, however, because I am concerned about another development that seems to take place at universities – not only seems, but obviously does – namely: On the occasion of the terrible terrorist attacks on the 2nd. November in Vienna there have been various razzia and police actions, which is good and right. Within these frameworks, cases have also become known in the university environment, for example a case in Salzburg in which a political scientist and Islamophobia researcher has come to the attention of the authorities. One must assume, as far as the financing of his post is concerned, that everything has not been completely correct and well done. With the exception of my Alma Mater, the Universitas Lettrarum Carola Francisca Graecensis, there is a case where a professor will hold talks with the main suspects of political Islam and the Muslim Brotherhood. So with this, three red lines have been crossed, but this has not lost anything at all at universities. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, we have autonomy, which is already clear, but there are resources and possibilities, including through the Ministry, on the performance agreements in the medium term, but also in the short term within the framework of the supervisory law which the Ministry has, in this case I believe, becomes a supervisory obligation, a Commission, a committee of inquiry which accepts this serious matter. I'm asking you to do this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46804	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and it is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Martina Kaufmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46829	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, but also everyone who is still watching us at this time! In fact, I wanted to address the essential points that this educational and scientific budget contains for the future, but Mrs Kuntzl wants us to talk about the current situation. As a very, very many years in various areas, in various levels of educational policy, I would like to address the current situation and discussion, especially those which bring in the opposition here, but which, of course, it also forces medially, on a very specific matter. Both at schools and at universities, it is recommended that nothing happens now that our children, young people and students learn nothing more. [[Abg. Kuntzl: No one said that!]] However, the situation we have experienced since spring is like this: We have outstanding educators, who have immediately changed very well both at school and at universities and at technical colleges, and have managed to drive our children and young people forward and thus make them fit for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! It is you who speak of lost generations, you are the ones who are bad at the training of young people who have a grand future in Austria. I believe that is exactly what you are doing here in Austria without responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is precisely because we do not have a responsible policy, but because education is a future policy, the budget will be increased in the individual areas. We have learned that it is necessary to be prepared for the digital challenges as well. That's why there is also 235 million euros for laptops for the students. These are only available in my constituency in Graz 9 700 laptops. That's nothing! This is a huge step that has not been taken in recent years. In the past years, when I was a student representative, there have always been red ministers of education who were responsible and didn't bring anything together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now that these milestones are created, it's too late for you, too little. – Yes, you can easily demand that. But it will be made, and it will be made forward-looking. Just as forward-looking at the present time is being invested for the first time in the technical colleges. A 10-percent increase, an increase to this great extent, has never been achieved for the vocational colleges. They are also those who have managed well to cope with the digital challenges in the crisis, they will be future-oriented and therefore, of course, also bring our educational location Austria into the future. We can all be proud of this. We should not tell the next generations that they are lost generations. We should send the signal here today that with these challenges, with this challenge of the pandemic, we can go into the future and perhaps even skip some digital step. In this sense: The budgets provide the basis for education and science so that we can be future-oriented in Austria. Let's give this courage to everyone else too!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46890	Next speaker: Mrs Fiona Vierde. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46912	Madam President. Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen at home! I know it's already late and the attention leaves already, but I'd like to take you on a short trip: Dive with me into the world of inclusive school! In this world, there is no longer any distinction between children with special educational needs and children without special educational support. An inclusive school business has been created in which the strengths of the children are individually promoted. In front of my inner eye I now see a room full of smiling children who play and turn together. I see a child playing ball in the wheelchair with a child who is not sitting in the wheelchair. I see how one child supports the other. You know what I don't see? – hostility, loathing, fear of closeness, because they all know it so and for them it's just normal. Now you're sure to ask yourself: How does this work in mathematics and German and English? Of course, we are facing challenges, but it is possible. I'm thinking about school, for example. In the sky, which makes sensational pioneering work, to an incredibly enriching conversation with Mrs Rieger, the director of the school In heaven, which once said to me: Give me a school and I'll make it inclusive! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I think we all, and above all the government, need to be clear about one thing: Do we want this or don't we want it? What we have right now is unsatisfying transitional solutions. The fact is, it needs structural conversion, you have to get into action. I am absolutely clear that this is not happening all over the world from today to tomorrow, but what it needs is a roadmap. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues from the ÖVP and the Greens, the vague formulations and ideas of your government programme, which were also crossed by the Corona crisis, are simply not enough. It is a first step to offer pilot school projects, but there are including pilot projects for years. Now is the time for implementation. The community is no longer patient, because it is about its children who are still being excluded. No matter who I am talking to, the ideas are accepted thankfully, most of the time these interlocutors share my suggestions, they find good, but then I hear the sentence again and again: Unfortunately, the money is not enough, perhaps something will happen at the next financial compensation! And that's the puddle core: There is not enough money for it – or the will is not here to invest. Now we have a budget in which money is distributed. But why not for the inclusive education? We discuss the need to teach ethics, but at the same time leave 1.4 million people behind. I very much welcome the fact that, for example, more budget will be made available to special pedagogists. Please don't misunderstand me: I see efforts, but what I miss is a plan to change something in the long run. The abuse of the missing sign interpreters in educational education is frightening – just because we can't estimate how many children would need it. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you clearly and clearly: On the way to an inclusive school system are also sign language and the respective interpreters indispensable. Only in this way can the school become inclusive and more and more children will attend the school because they find support. If we do not finally understand this, we will have unsatisfying transitional solutions in the coming decades. We need a clear commitment to the implementation of the UN Disability Convention in order not to leave anyone behind, no child with and no child without disability. Education is not exclusive, education is inclusive.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46966	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e46995	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I want to start with something more basic: I would like to observe and listen to my colleagues too. I've done this in the last few days in front of the background: Who are we talking to when we talk to in front of this? One speaks to his constituency, the other perhaps to his party officials – everyone has his target group to which he speaks. I believe, however, that we should all be aware of this – I believe we are, too – that the whole of the debates we are having here is somehow the picture of the entire policy. I have sometimes felt in recent weeks and months that the overall picture that we as a Parliament are giving as a policy may not always be the way we really want it to be. I believe that it is just in a time like now, which is really difficult, that it is simply important for us to act as politics as a whole to generate trust. I am perfectly clear, there is, of course, this field of tension of criticism, control, government, everything possible. That's perfectly clear, everyone has a role to play. But as far as the tone and how and how it is concerned is concerned, this is not the claim that we should have to this Parliament. That really got me wormed and busy, and I wanted to say it at this point. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Because we have to act as a total policy, it is also clear that we are faced with target conflicts, target conflicts in corona crisis management. They are unsatisfying, and of course there is always frustration. I would like to address the issue of school closures. We do not discuss the subject of school closures in isolation, otherwise we would all say: For God's sake! – No, of course, that’s not semantically perfect, but that’s the term that’s always coursed here. [[Abg. Fireplaces: Are they closed now, or what?- Oh, my God!]] We are discussing this in connection with the corona pandemic, and if I read the figures of the last days that over 100 dead have to be complained over the last 24 hours, I think the target conflict will be very clear. On the one hand, of course, we find it bad if there are any educational losses that are difficult to pick up. Of course, it's bad when parents are faced with difficult challenges, but we're talking about people we can't say to: [[Abg. Smoking: What can our children do for it?- Oh, my God!]] We'll do this later! They're just dead, they can't celebrate Christmas together with their family, and I think that's even worse. I think it is also possible to explain to children and young people that parents are in a risk group and are at risk in such an infection situation that the grandmother is seriously threatened and could perhaps really land at the intensive care centre and even worse. [[Abg. Fireplaces: What was in Ireland? Why have the better numbers? Germany too!]] You can explain this to children and young people, I think. They're really hot enough to understand. [[Abg. Smoking: We then have traumatized children!]] We must do everything we can to bring these bad things, which are also necessary, together, to explain them and to see that we achieve the great goal that we do not have 100 dead once again in 24 hours, that we oppose them. I think that's right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the budget: Of course, we also have – it is always complained, and the criticism is also justified – a need for recovery in the field of digitalization. I am glad that we are taking a step into the future in this budget. Yes, Mr. Kassinger, I would like to begin by thanking the taxpayers that we have available EUR 235 million to make these investments in the field of digitization and school, that we have EUR 2.4 billion in tax money to invest in the school development programme. I would also like to thank our Minister for the fact that he has managed to set these political priorities in such a way that the money is also used in a meaningful way, because these are really things that I believe are important for us to take over and invest in money for that. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you!]] I would also like to come to the university sector briefly. We stay on the growth path, that has already been said. 10 percent more for the FHs, I think, are important to ensure the quality of the FHs. I'd just say, let's take this budget the way it is. I said earlier, we are a Parliament, we are giving a picture. The budget service, all of us, has found many praises for UG 30 and 31 in the course of its analysis. I think it can't be wrong if I say it's a sensible budget, a good budget, a future budget. I am pleased if we implement this in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47100	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47124	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to announce on a very current occasion: Violent language, hate comments or hate postings simply have no place in our society, and are not tolerant. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is meaty – I would simply like to say this on the spot – from which group it comes, whether from one's own or from all others. This has no place in our Parliament, in politics, in democracy and in our society. Full solidarity with all women here and with all women outside! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] I would now like to come to the very important chapter on education and science, and I find it a little a pity – just as Mr Kuntzl has already mentioned – that you do not even deal with the reality of life of children and young people, even from parents, elementary teachers or teachers. Quite honestly, the terms Distancelearning or Homeschooling are no longer so positively occupied and connoted, because they bring with them insane challenges. We have already heard it, I also want to give flashlights of me, because in that case I also spoke to parents of children who have told us how children are doing. Home schooling, loud video conferences are not easy to pack – I say so now. It's totally difficult to really record this and do house exercises in the afternoon. In addition, as has often been mentioned today, there are no laptops that are urgently needed for this. Working on the phone is not a state. It is not the way you have formulated this very, very lapidar, Mr Federal Minister. You have given the remote tip: Separate the learning spaces from the games! – Mr Minister, this is a bad joke! How are two children supposed to do this when you introduce yourself to apartments? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] There is These divisions are far from reality! Therefore, really deal with the situation of children, young people and students. I would like to say something about what Mr Marchetti said earlier: There are countries that have brought down the numbers without school closures quite clearly. They're at the table! Ireland has achieved a 50% reduction within three weeks. Germany is also on a good path. They have acted against the expert knowledge and have closed schools and kindergartens. Wrist as it is, they are too close, for when they bring the child, many parents honestly have an inconceivable bad conscience. This is also justified by the press conferences, which must be said on the spot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to come to the students and their situation in particular now. Students' residences would be a way to make living at last affordable, because without a financial injection from a financially strong family, apartments are no longer manageable for students. It is all the more sad, Mr Federal Minister, that for student apartments, zero euros are provided in the budget, neither for the renovation nor for the re-establishment. I think this is completely wrong, this is a completely wrong access! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, due to the Covid crisis, many students of course leave their homes early because they do not need them – keyword Distancelearning. However, they do not come out of the rental contracts. At the same time, of course, the homes have a problem with this. This is a situation you have to face now. We are doing this and we are therefore making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let's make living at least for students a bit affordable again! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47271	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Josef Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47295	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as dealing with schools is concerned, the matter is ambivalent in purely epidemiological terms, it appears that such studies appear. There is now again evidence that it is relevant for the infection. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Nine European countries have also intervened in schools; others have not. One agrees that it is a huge challenge for all involved. But if we talk about the negative effects, I do not want to imagine how negative the effects would also be in the psychological sector, If we don't get hold of the pandemic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] To the science budget: It rises from EUR 5 billion to EUR 5.6 billion by 2022. This is divided into different facilities. The almost 1.4 billion euros for universities in the next three years of the service agreement actually bring quite great opportunities. I am thinking about the infrastructure and, of course, as a Grazer, I am particularly pleased with the Center of Physics. For the students I am delighted about the improvement of the care relationship. This is now already the second period of university funding, i.e. there is targeted and quality-oriented funding. The colleges, financially not always as equipped as desired in the past decades, get the biggest plus they have been able to get so far. This too is quite, very important, because they are very excellent in many professions, which are so essential to our society. Non-university research has also been addressed. This is not only about the increase in the budget by 18.4 percent in the next few years, but also about the fact that these non-university research institutions now also have their three-year service agreements, their plannedness, which is also linked to the commitment to what we expect from them as a society. This is a very, very great progress. I am of course pleased that the FWF will be upgraded accordingly, that the other support organisations will be upgraded. As a physician, I also say that the focus of one of these institutions, namely the Ludwig Boltzmann Society, on clinical research is also an absolutely contemporary and very important step and is also well suited to the University Med pulse 2030. A very small point, which might otherwise go down, regarding a small organisational revision: The fact that the Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics and the Geological Federal Institute are brought together has the potential for enormous content synergies and is especially important in times of climate challenge. We insist that a growth path is essential in science. I remember the intense discussion on the occasion of the FoFinaG when it said: Why isn't there a number inside? We then said there's a growth path inside. In my nearly 40 years in the Austrian science company, I can say that it was in fact always a growth path. Even in this crisis, resources are now significantly increased for research and science, and that is quite, very important. Finally, I would like to say something that Mr Niss has already mentioned. The cooperation between science and the economy is something completely essential. With a flourishing science, we create the prerequisite for jobs and the production of the future, and by keeping production and jobs, we keep science and development in the country for the long term. That is why we need to look at this synergistic. We're on a good way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47359	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Hauserzu word reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47389	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Fässmann, you have and you have had a huge privilege: All the political groups in this House have supported you with regard to keeping schools open. We discussed this subject intensively last week during the budgetary negotiations and have supported you all with different arguments that I cannot repeat now in the absence of time. They themselves felt that the schools should remain open. Unfortunately, you have let our schools close through the government – with all the negative consequences associated with it. And please, colleagues from the ÖVP, don't go to the speaker's desk today and say the schools are open. The schools are closed against all our will and against all our opinions. There's never been that. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I quote now from your decree, Mr. Minister, which you sent to all the schools in which there are sub-levels: “Students who do not have suitable workplaces at home for the purpose of carrying out their work do not have access to IT terminals that need educational support or that cannot be cared for at home” may go to school. That is, under certain conditions – not all others. And as far as the upper level is concerned, it is clear from you at all: The upper level takes place in distance learning. Only the management can take place on a case-by-case basis and then only once a week can teach a school at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47425	Next speaker is Mrs MMMag. Gertraud Salzmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47449	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house, but also ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! I've got a lot of text messages, I know that many people are interested in following this discussion here. We debate the budget education and science, but I also hear everything else. However, I would like to address this budget very consciously, at least briefly, Mr Minister. They have really, very well negotiated, because both the budget for education and the budget for science can really be seen. There will be an increase of EUR 996 million in education in the coming years by 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very, very big sum. When I look at Mrs Hammerschmid: In the years 2013 to 2016 – in these four years under SPÖ leadership – there was an increase of 29 million euros in total. So, please, let's see who can teach! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This money, ladies and gentlemen, is being used very meaningfully, at last for the equipment for digital schooling. Mrs Hammerschmid, you stood up here and said: We need that at last! - Yes, I know you as a minister when I was a teacher. You can now do as you want – whether you take me seriously or not – but I know you as a minister. I ask you and your predecessors: Why didn't you implement digital schooling? Why didn't you go in there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] I'm wondering. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] At your place of business, among you, Minister Fässmann, it is now being done. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, where there is investment in education – which is also a point you have not implemented, ladies, I cannot say otherwise – is the teaching of ethics. We'll finally put him through. The figures have been at the table since 2011. In addition, we are now investing in schools facing a particular challenge. I would also like to say thank you for the green group – the choir of the FPÖ agrees, you are quite well tuned – before you too, dear Sibylle Hamann. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you!]] For reasons of time, I am not going into science in detail, you may forgive me, even if it is very important: 1.2 billion euros will be added. As a educator, let me now address the current situation: We've heard so much, and I can assure you, as a teacher, it's really a heart concern to me to stop the teaching of presence as long as possible. But now we have heard from the previous speakers how difficult the situation is at present with the number of infections. The Minister of Health said here: Today there are again 7 100 newly infected people. [[Abg. Smoking: The Minister of Health has also said that schools remain open!]] We have many deaths every day, and this particular challenge also needs special measures. You're just on it from the opposition. You can do that well, but it won't do anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] I miss your sensible suggestions. Some have come today, but now it's a little late. From this crisis on the back of the students to beat out political little money, I think it's bad – I really have to tell you that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Mrs. Künsberg Sarre, you are here at least and you appreciate what is there. There, too, is differentiated – I like that. We are in dialogue, this is important, but please stop talking about chaos in schools! [[Abg. Smoking: They're destroying...!]] Why? Mr. Brückl, you talked about the motivation being gone, but why? – If you tell your children, the students constantly that everything is going down in chaos, you don’t need to wonder that the motivation is gone. [[Abg. Brügl: Any newspaper: Chaos!]] [[Abg. Smoking: You're making chaos!]] You know what? You do wrong to all teachers and all directors, because they are in school every day and are really committed to the limits of their loadability. [[Abg. Smoking: Let the teachers and the children in the classes!]] I miss the appreciation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude. Mr Fässmann, I am glad that the predecessors are no longer present, but that in this very, very serious crisis of the Second Republic, you lead so responsibly. [[Abg. Smoking: Thank you, thank you, thank you!]] You have a heart for education, and with you, education is not just a lip confession. I thank you for your commitment. [[Abg. Smoking: Thank you, thank you, thank you!]] – Yes, bet fits, the FPÖ will follow. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and NEOS.]] – A great thank you in the choir from all over Parliament to all teachers, to all directors and also to the school administration staff, for these are the people who now keep the operation in our schools so well! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47634	Mrs Mag.a, Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid, spoke on an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47661	Mrs Salzmann just said in her speech that from 2014 to 2016 we had received only 29 million euros of budget and had done nothing in digital education. I'm actually correcting: On the one hand, Mrs Salzmann – I no longer have all the budget figures available from 2014 to 2016 – was my minister in 2016 and 2017. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] On the other hand, I can tell you that in the one and a half years alone I have received more than 750 million euros for the expansion of all day schools – which I think is present – and 300 million euros to cover the structural gap. I just don't know where you have the 29 million euros. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Another word on digital education [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] In my time, we have written a strategy concept for digitization. In my time, we have piloted the curriculum for digital education. In my time, we have established Education Innovation Labs. In my time we have - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47722	Ladies and gentlemen, please put another sentence to ensure that this is a real correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47737	I could continue the list for a long time – but to say that we had done nothing is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47764	Mr Helmut Brandstätter has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47789	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a theme that is instigating to many people – both here and outside – at the moment. Mr Federal Minister, I know you are not responsible, but I urge you to: Call Mr Kurz and Mr Anschober – something has to change! You can buy weapons anywhere in this country today, but if You call the accountant of your trust and say: Please, I want to pick up a book without contact!, that's forbidden. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The book trade has already been excited, it was on the ORF side briefly, then it has disappeared – it should not be talked about. Do you really want people not even to get more books? I urge you to: Call the Federal Chancellor and tell him that this needs to be changed quickly. It must still be possible in this country to get contactless books. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] Now I'm telling you something: I have already presented Professor Hengstschläger – that is, we are in the middle of science – and I have already talked about him before. You should have read this together with the government in advance, because he is talking about solution competence. [[Keeping the book “The Gift of Solution” by Markus Hengstschlager up to date]] For solving unexpected problems, we need social competence, critical thinking, creativity, communication, ethics and resistance – in addition to learned knowledge. Resilience – leaning back somehow, it's going to go – I see, but I've really missed everything else lately – most of the time on the question of schools. Mrs Hamann: I looked at yesterday's show on Pulse 24 – Hamann versus Martina Künsberg – and you said the same thing again and again: No, the schools are open anyway! – Of course, you can go in, but you should not go in. That was really disappointing for me, I have to say that very clearly. I just closed my eyes and I thought: Aha, that's the press speaker of short. You have taken over one of the arguments of the ÖVP. What has become of you? – That can't be true! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] We know that we need schools – and the Federal Minister knows best. I quote him because he said this a few days ago: If the students are away for a long time, learning processes can also be accompanied by poorer control. In addition, the summer semester saw that students from remote families were more likely to be lost. It is necessary to ensure that the educational shear does not go up. – Mr Federal Minister, we probably agree: There are these educational shears. We know – you nod – that education is inherited in this country. We know that it is the greatest injustice of all, and you and everyone else are looking at how the education shear goes on, and the Greens support it. Never say to NEOS again neoliberal, because the best thing that NEOS have ever done is to work for education, education and education! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They now also implement it in Vienna, and – this is the essential point – you have forgotten it. I'm very sorry. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Hot air!]] Another point – because this was addressed – is TU Linz. No, Mrs Niss, Martina Künsberg has not defied TU Linz, I have listened very closely. The word was: We'll see what that's going to be. – I do believe that the Federal Minister did not know exactly that Mr Kurz was giving up something there. No one knows what the university will look like, no one knows how to finance it – we will see what it will do. If the education plan is, I don't know. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] But I also wanted to say something positive: Yes, there is more money in the field of basic research – science budget yes, but the education budget is unfortunately not available. Unfortunately, I have to go back to the negative, namely the question of universities: I talked to colleagues of the camp of the boys NEOS about the university. He told me about many scenes in which, of course, the students are also unsure. Of course, you're right to say: This is the autonomy of universities! – Yes, I know that, but much does not work in the field of digitalization. Students don't know what's not open and what's going on. Is the university library open? Isn't the National Library too? You don't know yourself, and that's what people throw back. That's why I assume that with the 16 ECTS you already forget. I think we really have other concerns than to see if we can push someone out of college. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] No, we need more education in the country, we need more people who have the chance. It is really the most dangerous: Unfortunately, I am not surprised at the ÖVP anymore, but with the Greens I am surprised that you are participating in the further rise of the educational shear. You can come out now and say: The schools are open anyway! – I know they're open and you can go in. But I also know – and that was already the argument in spring – that pressure is being exerted on parents. Where was the planning? Where were you in spring to look in other countries that do much better? In Ireland every teacher, each teacher has such a mask, an FFP2 mask. [[Keeping an FFP2 mask in height]] They don't have anything with us. In Ireland and Germany, schools are open and countries have significantly lower numbers. We're the worst of the infections, and then we'll lock up the schools to make things worse. That is really disappointing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] I could talk about it for a long time, but again my appeal: At least give people the chance not only to buy weapons, but also books! We need spiritual weapons, not something to shoot! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47886	I call Mr Ing. Johann Weber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47911	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Treasured spectators and listeners at home in front of the screens! I'd like to start my speech by the name of Markus. Markus is a former student. At the age of 15 he came to the agricultural specialist school for the final successful examination of agricultural skilled workers. By the way, he was also able to be professionally oriented for his future, discovering his love of technology, which moved him after schooling to begin a teaching with Matura in the field of mechanical engineering. Four years later, he took the course examination and successfully graduated, which in turn opened up additional possibilities for him: He went to Vienna, financed his studies at the Veterinary Medical University with the self-holder scholarship, and now he is a successful veterinarian with us in the beautiful Lavant valley. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Not only that is why I am a follower and friend of dual training, in the special case of teaching with Matura. In my home district of Wolfsberg, we have an average of about 900 apprentices, and about 10 percent of these apprentices choose the teaching with Matura every year. I think this is a very good value in the Austrian comparison. Why are we doing this? – The Wolfsberg vocational school under Director Norbert Aichholzer and his team – by the way, he is looking at the transfer today – is 100 percent behind this training. The young apprentice earns fine, honest money from the beginning of his teaching, and this will eventually become pensionable. He knows why he's doing something. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Further, as a demand for skilled workers, not only the job opportunities, but also other doors in the career leaders and in the further education sector are increasing, as just in the example mentioned earlier, Markus. In total, much is already done in this area in Austria, but we can and certainly need to improve. We know that we still have too high a drop-out ratio in this area, but there is a lot of provision for this in the government programme. Mr Federal Minister, thank you again for the 12.4 million euros planned for this. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you!]] I wish all apprentices with Matura all the best for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47958	Mr Kai Jan Krainer spoke on a point of order. As a long-term representative, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e47986	Mr President. Mrs Kaufmann meant a few minutes ago when she was a student representative, there had only been red education ministers who had not done anything. As I can see from her CV, she was born in 1986. That means, from her ninth to her 20th. There was only one minister: That was Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. [[Call the SPÖ:Well go!]] I don't want to argue that she didn't do anything, but I actually have to correct it here: She wasn't red, she was from the ÖVP. In this respect, Minister Fässmann does not fall in line with the fact that he does not do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48017	Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48039	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard very often this morning that a state government has been criticized for seventy times, although it has not even been praised. Even if this form of government was not yet present in Austria: Red-Pink has already gotten such a shitstorm here today, without being even praised. [[Abg. Stögmüller: We know that well, this feeling!]] A minister who celebrates his three-year anniversary at Christmas is not to be criticized because it is evil, I honestly find a very strong piece in what we are already experiencing all day long. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] We are discussing two subdivisions – education and science – which are supposed to be forward-looking. I really wondered a little bit today: I took out my speech from spring and could have said this one thing in truth, because the criticism is still the same – except for a very small one. Already in spring, the budget service has stressed that injustices in our education system are heightened with home schooling and distance learning. Even now, for the 2021 budget, the budget service is again exactly that way. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's just a fact we can't ignore. In order to solve this problem, a comprehensive index of opportunities would be a good way to really counter it and finally break up the inheritance of education – and not in such a miniform: Popup chance index, we've already heard. I think that's actually very appropriate: a little something, just for a year, not covering, a half-sight story, as you say so beautiful. Especially now, it would be very, very urgently necessary to support the schools, the pupils, the teachers as much as possible. I think that a question is also justified: Why not now and not already 2018 or 2019? I think you can say that. I am still in the field of universities. Unfortunately, in the field of students, we do not recognise anything that the students should support: no ambitions to abolish the tuition fees for professionals, no ambitions for investments in Studiheime, no ambitions to make higher education more transparent, and no ambitions for real funding from Austrian universities. As a Daily Remembrance: The rise in the university budget results from a 2017 decision in this House, where the ÖVP did not go along with – we have already explained this very often here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what do we get with this budget? – An air lock called the Technical University of Upper Austria. I am really looking forward to 2021, where not only country elections in Upper Austria, but also mayors' and mayors' and municipal council elections are in place. I am really looking forward to the high-gloss-patent photo on the country election, on which probably the head of state, the Minister of Education and the Chancellor with a golden spade are standing and saying: Supertoll, that's what we've done for Upper Austria! – It is an air lock, a perfect choice sugar for the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The pressure in the education system and in the higher education system already exists much, much longer – not only through Corona – so I am finally allowed to submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48182	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. It is now MMag. Dr. Agnes Totter. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48212	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Education is one of the budgetary priorities in 2021: an increase of 6 percent – from 9.2 billion to 9.8 billion euros. As mentioned above, there are now 235 million euros for digital devices in the 5th and 6th years. Level of secondary education and digital education. Now you can talk to me: Thank you very much, Minister Fässmann, for taking the secondary schools. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank you!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This strengthens rural areas and relieves our communities as a schoolkeeper. The corona pandemic continues to present the school locations with major challenges. I'm asking you now: Is there anyone among you who hasn't experienced a personal crisis yet? How did you master these? Was that not easier with the support of others? What you do now as an opposition is exactly the opposite: instead of holding together, split the population. And columns means having at most half the force for something for which you need the whole force. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Always talk about the schools being closed, which is simply not true. Schools have changed their teaching to Distancelearning. Teachers are there for the care of children, they ensure that the pupils can be further taught and support those who need support. For this, the educators and educators, but also the school boards, I believe, deserve the greatest appreciation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the question that you are constantly asking yourself: If the Federal Government has imposed the lockdown and thus also the changeover to Distancelearning too late?, I can only repeat the answer of our Federal Chancellor: A hard lockdown would not have been possible weeks ago, because people's willingness to do this has often been missing. [[call to the FPÖ.]] This has been missed especially because you are constantly uncertain, cannot accept or want to accept facts and – now I address the Freedom Party very specifically –: [[Interim calls at FPÖ and SPÖ]] You're pretending it wasn't this health crisis at all. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] They even refuse to wear the masks here in the High House and convey to the outside the impression that this is not necessary at all. Ladies and gentlemen! The lockdown and the switch to Distancelearning were necessary, and I ask you: Do not pretend that the school would form its own bubble in which the corona virus could not enter at all! There, too, people whose lives and health are worthy of protection work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will only be able to deal with this crisis if we work together constructively on solutions, keep them all together and not split them. Peace is not the absence of war, ladies and gentlemen, peace is a state of mind.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48292	It is now Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48317	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very soon: There's more budget. - Great, that's great, that's what we welcome. Nevertheless, one may still criticise as an opposition party, especially since there are enough problems and organisational or other questions that are unresolved. Whether this is – to mention examples – in the organisational reform, where nothing is concerned: I recall the project to put together the Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics and the Geological Federal Institute. If you have more money, we need it for reforms, perhaps the other two state weather services, Austro Control and the ORF, as well, then it would be a proper reform that you have to finally address. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] – What does Austria need four state-almented weather services for? I'll ask you that! [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: The ORF is not...!]] There's something we have to do – we won't stop there. Another example: If you don't put together organizational units just to maintain rector posts, like at the Academy of Fine Arts or at the Applied in Vienna, then we will do this again and again on the subject. A good project is not to stop, it is not a question of whether or not, but only when it comes – of course not among you, because you do not support good projects. I take note of that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there are many other topics: Studienplatzfinanz and so on. This year was not such a good year in the reform process, but for the next year there is more money, and here we say: It must not be distributed with the casting can. Not everyone is allowed to get, but you have to look closely. You have to take money into your hands, too, to make reforms there. Even if there is more money, you may need to get in there and there. Now on the subject you are dealing with – and this has been our concern in the ministry for a long time –: the exmatriculation of students who do not bring 16 ECTS points a year. Minister, please stop the project! It's pointless, it's just wasting money and nothing. We make it clear to one example, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We know that this has to be done in the form of letters. They generate a bureaucracy sample, and as learned Austrians we know that thousands of vocations have thousands of minutes, and then instances and super-instances have to deal with it. We can better spend this money on science. We certainly don't need that. Mrs Sigi Maurer would have been exmatriculated if there had been such a thing at her time, for she needed eleven years for a Bachelor who needed three years. Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz has not finished his studies at all until today, not even a Bachelor, and studies 15 years – I just say. We wanted to make this plastic. It is also about avoiding any bureaucracy samples that you may create. You have to go new paths. Mr Federal Minister, I have read or I know you are also the winner of the Camillo-Sitte Prize. Take an example of this, because as an architect and urban planner, as you know, he has understood all his proposals, as well as those of the opposition, to prevent the mathematically diverted modern life in which man becomes a machine. That's what we want. We – and take an example of this – do not want our youth to have less rights than the youth ten and 20 years ago, just as you are remembering. No, we want to give them the same rights that we have used, and we also do not want them to become machines, as Camillo Sitte did not want – I hope you do not, Mr Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48456	The application submitted is sufficiently supported, has been properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Irene Neumann-Hartberger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48484	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Hunger, freshswelle, adventure gastronomy, disposable society, health wave, fast food, slow food, convenience food, vegetarianism, veganism, frutarians – all these are keywords of eating behaviour over the past hundred years. While a few decades ago regularity and order determined the daily meal, this has changed considerably in recent years. Single households, changing women's roles – away from the housewife to the active woman –, breaking up classical family structures, hecticism and time scarcity have changed the modern eating day. Unfortunately, eating together with the family no longer has the same importance as it used to be. Before now calls come, what all this has to do with education: I'm convinced that's a lot. Dietary habits establish themselves early in life and are maintained until adulthood. Many of the contributions we have heard so far are about a positive budget, needs, developments, specializations and digitization – all important and future-oriented. [[Call at the FPÖ:Is it also on the subject?- Oh, my God!]] But it also needs knowledge of our basic needs, especially nutrition and health, because one is associated with the other. At the same time, we can see that there is a clear decline in knowledge of food, of practical cooking skills and, above all, of the ability to maintain a household, and that is still efficient. [[Call the FPÖ:To the agenda!]] It needs food knowledge among children, students, educators, educators and parents, knowledge of the quality of food, their origin and production, so that consumers of today and tomorrow can make responsible food and purchase decisions. We Austrian farmers, first and foremost our esteemed federal farmer Andrea Schwarzmann, demand an extension and adaptation of the compulsory school subject of nutrition and household in secondary school I. Great approval is given to this concern also in the population, so that our children later do not compare apples with pears, as an online survey initiated by the Arge farmers shows, in which a total of about 9 000 people participated. 99 percent of respondents thought it was very necessary for children in school to learn about food, nutrition and consumer education and wish for an extension of this subject. [[call to the FPÖ]] The Corona crisis has also shown us how very important this food knowledge is to get out with potentially lower incomes, yet to put on the table a good and high-quality food, to buy regional and seasonal food and to cook and eat together with the family. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Nutrition, health and consumer knowledge are essential skills for a reflected, self-determined and healthy adult life. This basis must be given more space in compulsory schooling. I'm sure we're on the right track with this Federal Minister. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48540	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Petra Oberrauner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48564	Thank you very much, Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I actually wanted to put forward a motion for a resolution at the beginning, but after the Turkish Group's presentation, I have to comment on the comments that have been made. A short time ago, the parole was: Learn to live with the virus! Nowhere is this as visible as in education because the whole family is affected if anything does not work. I also thank you for wanting to make sure that schools remain open with lessons and not become a place of shelter for the children to be given there because the parents do not get free. – By the way, this can also be attributed to your chao policy: First of all, it was clear that the state is applying the time to employers financially when mothers have to stay at home. That would have been all right, that would have been respectful, and this would have been useful for society in general, because then one shows respect for the families. Now, let's point out that's not the way it is. Then one wanted to exclude the trade workers between them, and finally it is so far, It is important to ask employers if they want to receive the money. So I really have to say that this is as far away from a good family and social policy as we do from the moon. The second thing I always find out: There's a syndrome with you that really makes me a little insecure. This is this Pippi long-shrink syndrome, where you say every day: I'm making the world the way I like it, no matter what happens around it! – We live with a pandemic, and a pandemic means challenges other than a normal budget and government responsibility presented in a large style, in which every day is shown twice and triple by marketing enhanced demonstrations of power. I have to say, Mrs Mag's statement. Salzmann has confirmed all of this. Thanks to the teachers who keep the school business so well. Worse enough that you have not created the framework conditions and that this is necessary, because that would be your job as a politician and politician. The third thing I would like to mention is that you are always talking about being the pillars of the nation – if someone says something else or wants to do something to improve something. The opposite of splitting is co-operating. I don't understand why it's so hard for you to accept a suggestion from the opposition if it's good. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] I also take a suggestion from the government if it's good. If I do not like her, I have the responsibility as a politician to explain to you why I do not like her and what the proposals for improvement would be. I must say that with your majority you do not have the opinion of the entire population. You have to make that clear. There are several pages, there are different voters, there are people in society who think differently. Variety is important. Living in solitude happy and lonely together, as you practice it, is, I believe, not the right access to the pandemic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that there is a virus is undisputed that it is very dangerous is also undisputed, but such a denial of reality with such demonstrations of power is at least as dangerous. I would really ask you to take Parliament more seriously, respect Parliament's control functions and not share them everywhere, because you believe you need to support the marketing chancellor. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] So, and now I come to my motion for a resolution, which refers to teachers who also need to respond to the new challenge of digitalised teaching. A study says that 28 percent of teachers feel at least quite fit for the use of digital technology in teaching, but 52 percent feel unable to apply it at all. Unfortunately, we found in the budget that, after 70 000 euros in 2020, 0 euros are budgeted by 2022 euros. I would urge you to comply with our motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would really ask you to accept this suggestion. It makes sense, it is sustainable, it is necessary, and it comes from the opposition, yes, because you have not thought of it. But we do not use it for us if you want to market it. - Please. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48706	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and under negotiation. Mr Mag has made an actual correction. Dr. Martin Grafzu word reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48737	Mr President. I am referring to an actual correction, because many Members, including Mr Marchetti, but also Mrs Taschner and Mrs Kaufmann, all the members of the ÖVP, have always thanked the Minister for the budget from the speaker's mouth. I am actually correcting Mr Minister, as Parliament, we are those who create the budget and have the budgetary authority, and you are the implementing body. [[Abg. Stögmüller: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Actually, you should thank all of us if the budget becomes a good one. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] That's what I wanted to put on at this point only once.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48796	Mrs Petra (ED). — Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Petra for his excellent report. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48821	Mr President! Mr. Minister! [[Call to the FPÖ: That was the wrong reason! This is Mr Third President...!]] Mr President. Sorry! Dear colleagues! I am the last speaker, and I would like to thank you now for still listening to me. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Cohesions: The ÖVP is constantly presupposing that we do not hold together. Cohesion means to you that we are all of your opinion – then it will hold you together. That's what it looks like. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For us, keeping in mind would mean accepting requests from the opposition parties from time to time, because that would make sense from time to time. Minister, know You're actually what's happening in schools right now? - I don't think so. I'm reporting facts: This organizational chaos at the moment is inconceivable. The headmasters still have to get information about the press conferences – since March. For a repeated time, they receive information about serious package of measures on the weekend. Instructions for action come from the Ministry's e-mail address and no longer from its superiors. [[call to the FPÖ.]] You no longer have authorised contact persons. It is actually only thanks to the headmasters with their teams that the school business is still running as it is, and not to the ministry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is unreasonable that schools receive no support. They promised 1 800 lecturers a week ago, to replace them in case of default. They're still not there. How does that work? Where are the tests? Where are the promised FFP2 masks? Where is the written explanation for the remuneration of the additional services in question? – There is a lot missing. The multiple burden on teachers is unreasonable. They have to look after the school groups, they have to make preparations in paper form, they have to keep the distance learning in online courses, they have to supply in case of failures, they have to provide psychological help for disturbed children because the guidance teachers are being removed. They're at the stress limit, and we've got November – it's only been school for three months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I'm asking you now: What steps do you take to ensure that teachers are not heated until the end of the school year in June? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] They are currently producing a lot of burned-out colleagues. The leaders, the teachers are highly burdened and everyone looks away. This is not just about Covid-19, it's about general health and it's about a reliable school for everyone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is unreasonable for parents to teach their children in home schooling. That's not their job, and it's a burden on the families. It is unreasonable that special care is not available at the moment. It is unreasonable that those students who go to the care are cared for in mixed groups. What makes sense? It would be better to leave normal, fixed class units. It is unreasonable that students receive too little support from the counsellors and school psychologists. They have more difficult situations at home. You have to deal with fear, sickness, financial worries and, unfortunately, increased violence, and here you are looking away. Teachers, too, need to dispel this because they have no support. The question is: How do you support them in this situation? It is not reasonable for students to take part in self-studenting content. Every child has the right to qualitative education, and every child also has the right to time dedicated to him. In the higher schools, for example, where there has been Distancelearning since the beginning of November, the children have to become involved in mathematics or mechanics – 2. Class HTL with my son, for example – own content yourself. I would like to see with the 200 people who are here whether this might be a handful – and the children should do it alone. That's not how it is. It has been points that we have been pointing out for months, Mr Minister, and it is not true that we have not said something before. We've repeated it over and over again. The whole area is just running out of the row, and there is no budget that makes it possible to catch up with this lack of education. It's nothing in it. If there should be a third lockdown in the first few months of 2021: How will you deal with the fact that 1.1 million students will lose a whole year? Is the year deleted? Repeat everyone? Everybody get up? What's the Matura look like? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] There are questions about questions. Our children can't help it, Minister, that no concept has been drawn up over the summer. Other countries have made it too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] ==References====External links== Not surprisingly, you have to say that. The kids deserved a chance. They have their lives ahead – and with the framework conditions we provide, the prospects do not look good. I assume that you, Minister, have neither planned nor wanted the present situation. But they have the responsibility for the consequences of this misjudgment, which our children and, in a wider sense, all of us will continue to work for a very long time. The fact is: We do this to many children instead of running proper crisis management and increasing the budget for everything else, for the hospitals – and at the moment also the capacities. In my speech at the last budget meeting in April, I said: “We are currently on the way to an adult school crisis”, if only waiting. Now we have arrived – and there is no budget to cover these loss of education due to the crisis. My appeal to you, Minister: Fix that, how and where it goes!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48912	The next speaker is Michel Reimon. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e48934	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, even if you are party leader: I would ask you to complete this office over-participally. The fact that my colleague, Mr Graf, is going out and making an actual correction, which is none, just because his group has no minute of speaking time, is simply not working. [[Abg. Deimek: We all saw this!]] You can't let that happen either. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] You really shouldn't trust a budget if you can't even keep time budgets. We still have 18 minutes; I could tell you now 18 minutes why we're glad that right-wing extremity doesn't manage a budget, but I think we're saving it. [[Abg. Martin Graf: We are the Parliament!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49001	There are no more words available to me now. The discussions on these topics have thus ended. I am now interrupting the meeting until Thursday, 19. November 2020, 9 a.m. Negotiations will be conducted with breakdown 10: Women and equality, continued. The sitting was suspended. [[19:55:15]] [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 18. On November 19, 2020, at 19.55 p.m. and on Thursday, 19th. November 2020, resumed at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:26]] Continued the meeting: 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49050	I'll start the meeting again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to give you a very warm welcome on the third day on the continuation of the 62. Parliament called on the Council to adopt a common position on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the [[Many SPÖ representatives wear uniform yellow masks and in their seats there are tablets with inscriptions such as “Happy Birthday Children’s Rights”, “Children Have Rights!”, “My Right to Co-determination” or “My Right to Family”.]] I welcome the representatives of journalism and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions. For today's day of sitting as prevented, MEPs are reported Franz Leonhard Eßl, Kira Grünberg, Mag. Michael Hammer, Klaus Köchl, Bedrana Ribo, MA, and Süleyman Zorba. As usual, the ORF will transfer the session to ORF III by 1 p.m. to ORF 2 and until 7.15 p.m., and then it will be broadcast via live stream. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49115	As you know, for today’s day we have agreed a day block time of 8 “Vienna hours. ” This results in a speaking time of 156 minutes for the ÖVP, for the SPÖ 108, for the FPÖ 88, for the Green 80 and for the NEOS 64 minutes. The speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is a total of 32 minutes and 5 minutes per debate. The breakdown of consultations is known to you. We continue the budget consultation. [[09:06:31]] UG 10: Women and equality
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49144	We start with division 10: women and equality. Mr Heinisch-Hosek is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49168	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! Before I go into the women's budget a little closer, I would also like to make a clarification: Sexual harassment of men against women, verbal attacks, violence of men against women, politicians against women are absolutely intolerable, cannot be tolerated. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as of representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I appeal to our responsibility as Examples – as politicians, as politicians – are that we simply don't allow this anymore. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Mrs Bundesminister, the budget increase is really good, but half of the increase is going to be in the time-use study, which will cost about 1 million euros or more. That means that it is not EUR 2.5 million, but only EUR 1.3 million more in the budget. As I said, this is good, but for a crisis budget far from enough. I believe that Mrs Bundesminister, a corona crisis budget would have to be much clearer and higher for such a small budget as the women's budget. You all know: Since Johanna Dohnal, since 1990, women ministers are those who interfere everywhere, those who demand are those who fight for women and their rights. But you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are very, very quiet about that. We never hear you fight that you demand. They are never at the press conferences, where it would be so important that half of the population is included there, that for half of the population, for us women, someone takes the floor – the men do not. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, especially in this corona pandemic, it is so important that you raise your voice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber]] The multiple burden on women, the increasing number of acts of violence, also the despair of the institutions that cannot help women well enough – that is what I am listening to, we are not listening to that. But you can talk to the Minister for Finance, you can also intervene in the budget, Mrs Minister! It would be so important that the individual ministries finally mention how much money they spend for – for men and women. We would have to get every department to represent that also monetary, monetary, what the expenditure is going to be. Then we know whether there is an imbalance between expenditure for men and expenditure for women – not that more money should be spent for women than for men, but gender budgeting, as it says, is important, and we are obliged to apply it as well. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, please be louder for us women! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[9:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49358	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Pfurtscheller Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49382	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to accept the following comments from Mr Heinisch-Hosek: The gentlemen in our club always think with us and are very hard to support us in the political work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Disoski.]] This may be different with the SPÖ, but with us it is. I would like to take a little more detailed look at the women's budget. As colleague Heinisch-Hosek has already said, it has been located at around 10 million euros in recent years, until 2019. In 2020, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was able to reach an increase of around 2 million euros and now another 2.5 million euros for 2021. We are all very pleased that it has succeeded in increasing the women's budget by 43 percent within two budget years. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] About half of the budget is used for women's and girls' advisory services. The rest of the last year's budget has been used primarily for the protection of violence; and yes, this year's time-use study has been added, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, but you have pretended not to be part of the budget. Especially you are one who has always called for this time-use study, and we are very pleased that it is now also implemented and taken into account in the budget. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The money still available is mainly used to strengthen the self-determination of women and girls. It's like this: Prevention of violence is a social task – of course, not only violence against women, but also against men, but especially women and children are threatened with violence. For this reason, several ministries are also involved, which is why the protection of violence is located in several ministries, for example in the Ministry of the Interior and the in the Ministry of Justice. These ministries also make money available for the protection of violence. Yesterday, Mrs. Minister, she said that 400,000 new information leaflets are being distributed in stores, supermarkets, pharmacies and medical practices so that women can know where to go. This is very important now in the second lockdown. I really want to encourage everyone who is afraid of being threatened to take advantage of help. You can also download this information folder from the BKA website, it is available in 13 languages – that is, also for those people, those women and young people who may not be able to read German as well. In addition, ministers Edtstadler, Zadić and Raab have also launched a package against hatred on the net. It was already under review, it was revised and decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers. I think it's incredibly important that we can decide this bill before the turn of the year. Some of us – actually quite a lot – have already experienced hatred on the web of many times, especially of course women, and therefore we know how important it is. Violence often begins with language. Just in the last few days, we've been able to find that the brake threshold has been slipping down for many more. I think that all of us here in this House should perhaps consider how we use language just at the beginning of the third day of the budget. What was used in some of the words yesterday and yesterday is not acceptable from my point of view. There are calls for orders from the President or the President, but the speakers do not feel compelled to apologise, but simply say they take note of this. I don't think that's a good sign out there. Finally, I would like to read a quote to you. A Facebook friend of mine has posted something to my page tonight, which I would like to read to you – it is addressed to you all –: “If in the political disput unacceptables it seems to wander towards sad normality, one does not need to wonder about the increasing rawe in large parts with all its fatal consequences.” Please take this to heart! Please be what we should be today: People's representatives who deserved this name! Let's use a language that we can also use! Let us show people that they can be discussed, but at eye level and with respect! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49464	Mrs Rosa Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49486	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! Modern women’s image threatens to retreat; negative development for women; Women bear the main burden; ‘The unmarked multi-work of women’; It remains dependent on women; Corona crisis will worsen the situation; ‘crisis leads to tradition rather than change’; women are more seriously affected by the corona crisis; Whoever has the opportunity to care for at home; Whoever needs, the facilities are open to him; Women are the big losers in the Covid crisis; Special care is not valid in the lockdown; “Women tear themselves apart and still feel like failure. ” What are you saying about these headlines? Many of you have read them too. I'll bring you a very up-to-date: “Women also bring us through the second lockdown”. – Yes, let’s stick to this statement! Women also bring us through the second lockdown: again a lockdown, again a great challenge, and again it most of the time meets the women. The burden of work comes to home schooling, there are more concerns, more fears, because women still have no work, or have no jobs, especially out of place, paid work, because the family income is waving, because the man is in short work and nobody knows how long it will take, because working in these ah so thanked system-related professions is almost impossible – more work, more shift service to ensure the supply, overtime, holiday-blocking. Some got corona premiums, many got nothing, and no bills from the clap. All these situations have an impact on mental health: Drivelessness, energylessness, fatigue and sleep disorders. We're talking about the women's budget today. That doesn't even cost many of the women outside a tired smile because the women are already tired. The women in Austria expect nothing more from women's policy. We will still hear a lot of praise for the budget today. You already have to stick to the subject: It is increased, it largely covers only inflation in recent years, and the funds have been far too low in recent years. For the women's resort, there is EUR 8.3 million for transfer expenses and EUR 6.4 million for the operational expenditure of the centres of violence. This current twelve per cent increase for women's institutions is ate up by increased rental costs, by energy costs, by wage costs – simply by inflation – and there is no financial room for additional measures. However, we would urgently need these because, unfortunately, in the context of the many acts of violence against women, we still need to focus on protection against violence. Domestic violence is more than ever the subject. We know this from the increased numbers of directions and the bans during the first lockdown. Women are facing the same situation this week. Not much else is done: The Women's Health Action Plan is not evaluated, it does not contain any corona perspective. Mrs Minister, there is not much to hear from you about equality policy! There is nothing in the budget. Women can no longer wait, women no longer want to be modest. What are you doing? Where are you? There is no financial recognition for the achievements of women in everyday life, which they provide for society: for care at home, for home office, for housework, for home schooling. The women lost around EUR 5 100 in income during the lockdown, and this also concerns the self-employed women. What about a women's economic package? - Miss. There is once again easier access to the maintenance advance, but still no legal regulation. The planned time-use study will not help women. Mrs Minister, you have just said here in this room itself that this time-use study will bring corona-related distorted data. That is, half of the budget increase is going on for this paper. Production You really like paper for the bastard?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49537	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49563	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I also have to start today's speech differently from planned. On Tuesday I spoke here about former President of the ÖVP, Khol. You remember: He meant SPÖ-Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner called after a wax. On the same day, SPÖ Federal Councillor Günter Kovacs formulates on Facebook criticism of the early starter bonus, which we have decided in the Hohe Haus. He uses a picture of the green club woman Sigi Maurer for his posting. A user commented among them, some politicians were expelled. Instead of firmly rejecting this abusive, disdainful comment, the Federal Council also defends him with the hint that one may accept democracy. Like Khol, Kovacs apologised, but I'm telling you something: Dornauer, Geisler yesterday; Khol, Kovacs today – who's coming tomorrow? What about you? What about the men in this country? What about you? [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] It is significant that the FPÖ will not react to it at all, but rather rather rule pleasure and cheerfulness. I wonder, What's there to laugh at? What do you think about misogynem hatred, of anti-female diffamations that are fun for women in this country – whether they are politicians or not – everyday? What's going on? - You look amused. [[Members of the House of Representatives of Kassinger and Mühlberghuber: who laughs?]] Why are you looking amused? [[Abg. Kassinger: These are flat-rate accusations! Who's laughing?]] – What kind of flat-rate accusations? You look amused when I'm dealing with this! [[Abg. Kassinger: You now judge how I look at you!]] What's funny about it? - There's nothing funny about that at all. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Yes, now I'm going to croak here – that's not what the spectators see – I'm going to be hit here by the FPÖ. I don't know [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] The woman at the speaker's desk is supposed to be mouth-dead – is that what you want to show me now? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hauser and Mr Mühlberghuber]] Making it mouth-death – is this now the culturally-related violence the FPÖ is always talking about? Parallel Culture FPÖ – is that what we are seeing right now? In my speech, however, I want to deal with more important than with the FPÖ, namely the budget of the UG 10, women's and gender equality agents. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We've heard it now: For ten years there were in the women's ministry under red-black – – – [[Abg. Smoke:... prepare properly!]] Please be so polite to listen and not constantly try to interrupt me? Is that all right? Create You do? [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] For ten years there have been budget stagnations under red-black governments and under the turquoise-blue government at last even budget cuts. We have now managed to increase the women's budget by 43 percent – from 10 million euros to 14.65 million euros. That's important, and that's good. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if you stand out here today and complain that these nearly 15 million euros are not enough, then as the Greens' spokesperson, I cannot help but agree with you. We are a big step further, and at the same time we are far from where we actually want to go and have to go. At the same time, however, I would like to ask you a question: In preparing for my speech in Parliament's correspondence, the archive never forgets – and in November 2015, Parliament's correspondence – I quote – noted: “For women and gender equality in Austria, there will be no more money in 2016 compared to the previous year, but also no less.” – No more money. This stagnation of the funds was considered a success by the then SPÖ Women's Minister. – Following this, my question to you: If you call a stagnation of the funds a success, what do you call an increase of 43 percent? [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Mr Ecker, if you rightly criticise that the funds would not be sufficient, I can already remind you that it was your party, which has shortened the funds with the ÖVP. That was the FPÖ, that wasn't us, that was you. If you say and say that we would do nothing to combat women's poverty – I don't know if you were at the plenary sessions – then I'll tell you: We have decided the early starter bonus, we have increased the compensation allowances. We're doing something about women's poverty. You didn't do that before. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In November 2019, the then highly valued women's minister, Ines Stilling, stated in a request that the women's budget would require 4 million euros to maintain the anti-violence facilities and their offers, as well as a total of more resources in the field of justice, police and health. 4 million euros more, Ines stilling demanded at the time. A year later, we have an increase of 4.5 million euros and several million euros for the prevention of violence and violence in justice, the police, the health sector, and we are certainly not going to let you do that! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] With this increase in the budget, on the one hand, we are strengthening the protection of violence, especially in the Corona pandemic, and on the other hand, we are financing the time-use study we have in the Coalition Convention, which experts have long called for. That's where I can correct you, colleague Heinisch-Hosek: The cost of this is about 1.2 million euros. They are expected to be divided into three years. If I charge the sum for the forthcoming budget, I am 2 million euros for the protection of violence. That's good and important. Henni,you meant in the previous equal treatment committee, there was a request from you for the time-use study that was postponed. [[towards Abg. Fire brills]] You then thought on Twitter, adjournment meant in the parliamentary jargon funeral first class. – I think you should reconsider your interpretation of delays. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] I come to the conclusion: As much as I am looking forward to the increase in the women's budget as I am as pleased as a woman's spokesman to my group, I am also quite honest with the question of whether I would have liked more, of course, to answer with a loud self-evident. I'd be a bad woman's spokesman if I didn't! Also, a 43 percent increase can and must not deceive us that we still have much to do on the way to a non-discrimination-free and non-violent society. Let's do it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49720	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49746	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! We're still talking about the protection of violence. We are still talking about the fact that women can no longer be so easily “imposed” even if some national council president would like to do so. We are still talking about the time-use study so that at last it becomes more transparent and comparable what we are talking about when we are talking about sharing work in the household, gender equality in everyday life, and we are talking about consulting and care facilities. We talk and talk and talk, in fact, that should be all of a matter of course. We should not welcome a budget increase as a result of too little action. On the contrary, these are measures that should no longer be worth talking about. That's not the way it is. In fact, we need this 20 percent increase in the budget to cover a minimum at all, and that is actually sad. It's about first aid – to solve the gross problems. It is not about forward-looking policy, and above all it is not about women's policy, because it is very important: What of these posts has ever lost anything in a women's budget? Why is it a woman budget when men have a problem with violence? Why does the women budget have to be burdened by the time-use study, with which men and women spend their time? [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Women's policy, which promotes women who face injustices and disadvantages of women, looks different. I can't find anything in your budget for the Genderpaygap either. By last year, there were at least target values for this, as well as for the share of women in part-time employment – they have disappeared. Nor do I see any measures to combat the poverty of women or to ensure their financial independence. I do not trust in looking for something more relevant in this budget, because there is no strategy for that either. We all know: The great losers of this crisis are the women, because they are the ones who struggle between home office and home schooling, who are rubbed up between job and child care and old age care, who do daily unpaid work, which, on average, earn 45 percent less than in the year before birth, ten years after the birth of their first child. This permanent backlash, in which women have been caught since the start of the crisis, also shows an up-to-date survey of the job portal Stepstone. Thus, every second woman says that the corona crisis aggravates gender inequality and women are slipped in traditional roles again during the lockdown. And so these old-fashioned problems are turning ever further in the circle. There's no approach at all to solve this, the spiral is spinning, and you can't break out. The crisis further aggravates these inequalities. Unpaid work in the household, home schooling and other care obligations remains largely dependent on women. By the way, the WU has also found this. There you accompanied the first lockdown with a study and one – be careful! – Time use study prepared for these seven weeks. One of the many and less encouraging results: In a couple household with children, mothers work a little over 14 hours a day, 9.5 of them unpaid, fathers work almost 13.75 hours, of which not quite 7 hours a day unpaid. So men work less and above all significantly less unpaid – who It is clear that this is an advantage! I can already understand that it is a convenient matter for half of humanity if you work less and earn more, but we should not be satisfied with it. We NEOS want women and men to be able to live themselves, that they have the fair chance to pursue their talents and develop themselves according to their own ideas, that they have the opportunity to live by their own work and to become happy according to their own fascism. What we do not want is a back-turned women's policy, which inadvertently moves with the axles and points towards the herd, because she believes that this is an appropriate place for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49810	Mrs. Raab has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49832	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! We are in the middle of the corona pandemic, in the middle of the second lockdown. It is a pandemic that keeps our society, our economy and simply all the people in our country in breath for a few months, a situation that is easy for no one in our country. I can assure you, however, that we, the entire Federal Government, are doing everything we can to dispel the negative effects on the people of our country where only possible. This budget is an expression of this very effort, of this effort at all levels. The Corona crisis has put all of us in challenges, and yes, it is especially the women in our country who are making enormous demands for our society at this time, for example as employees in the system-related sectors where women are mainly active – in food retailing, in health, in care – or in childcare and home office, home schooling and in many other areas. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] Women were and are currently in the family, in the profession, in private life simply those who are particularly required to keep the work running and keep everything together in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government and I have therefore taken several measures together to specifically support women and families in the crisis. From the Family Crisis Fund to the Family Hard Fund, the Children's bonus to the easier access to the maintenance advance or the women's focus in the Corona Work Foundation, which we have now set [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] Not only do we want to talk in difficult situations, but we want to act, relieve – even financially – and create new perspectives. Yes, I know that the suspension of teaching for many women, for many families difficult, laborious and a challenge, but the intensive bed capacity in Austria is almost exhausted, and against the background of protecting health and life, this measure was simply inevitable. It was important for us that schools and kindergartens continue to ensure educational care and learning support and are open to it, just as a right to special care time simply guarantees that, if schools and kindergartens can no longer be open anymore, because there are corona cases there, because quarantines were imposed on it, no woman, no family gets into an emergency situation and care is ensured. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Right to special care time!]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I can assure you that this path of consistent support at all levels – this is so important in women’s policy because it is a cross-sectional issue – is assured and will continue with full force in the coming budget. We have already given the task of strengthening women at all levels in the joint government programme, and this is now more than visible by the new increase in the women's budget. Already in this year we have been able to increase the first substantial increase in the female budget over the last ten years – the first substantial increase in the last ten years! – and I am all the more pleased that a new, even clearer increase in the women's budget will take place for 2021. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The 2021 budget will thus amount to 14,65 million euros, subject to your decision, ladies and gentlemen. This is an increase of 43 percent compared to the last ten years. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] With the women's budget 2021, I will set the following priorities, which I consider important, but not only corona: The basis for a self-determined life – that is what I want for all girls and women in this country – is a fear-free and non-violent life. I want us from politics that we as a society simply do everything to protect women and children from violence. There is a way out of the spiral of violence for every woman, and this is our task. I want every woman to know that there is a way out and that she is protected in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Especially in times such as those in which life now shifts to the inside again, it is not often enough to emphasize where help is available: whether through an Austrian-wide women's help line available 24 hours, online consulting, 171 women's and girls' advisory facilities, violence prevention centres, women's homes, emergency shelters or emergency homes. In order to draw attention to the comprehensive low-suspension offer and also to reach all women, I have now launched a second, much more comprehensive information offensive in the spring. This week, in pharmacies, doctors established in medical practices and also in the trade of state-specific advice will be available to ensure that all women know where to get help during the lockdown. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would like to express my thanks at this point to the Trade Association, the Pharmacy Chamber and the Medical Chamber for supporting me in this initiative. In 2021, a large majority of the funds for the protection of violence are also being used, in particular for the financing of eastern-wide violence centres and the financing of the comprehensive women's and girls' advisory bodies, which support women in some 90 percent of all districts in Austria and are used by more than 100 000 women and girls each year. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to fight for the self-determination of girls and women and their equality at all levels. A profession that brings joy and makes it financially independent is the prerequisite for self-determination and also essential for the reduction of existing income differences that remain in our society. For example, I am also concerned that we inspire girls and young women for future industries, for Mint professions, for jobs in better paid sectors where they can just make better and make a career. We have great women in our country who are role models. You have to get these in front of the curtain to encourage girls to take a different, new path and also to conquer new industries. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, it is my concern to promote the self-determination of girls and women in every age, from kindergarten to school to women of higher age. We are now taking an important step towards this by introducing the early starter bonus in pensions – at last a system that is no longer disadvantaged to women, finally a system in which pensioners no longer look through their fingers. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We will take another step towards equality between men and women of higher age by introducing the automatic pension split. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the great women in our country do in all areas of life enormous, in Corona times and beyond, and they deserve our recognition, but also our support at all levels. That's why I'm acting as a woman's minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I will also be very happy to carry out this task in the coming budget year, and the current budget is a good basis for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49925	Mr Deckenbacher is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e49947	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators at home! In the next few days, the campaign will again take place 16 days against violence against women, not only in Vienna, but internationally, worldwide. [[The speaker holds an oversized stophand made of cardboard, on the one hand “Stop Violence!” and on the other side “Stop Violence! ==References====External links==]] These 16 days cover the period of 25. November – this is the anniversary for all women who have become victims of violence – until 10. December, the International Day of Human Rights. Violence against women is unfortunately sad reality, especially at this challenging time in many families. This year there have been 36 000 ads and 16 women's murders, and I say it again and again: Every single case is too much! Above all, we know that the number of victims of violence in the domestic area is very high and that more than 1,000 rejections in one month have been the result. Mrs Brandstötter, if you say we're talking and talking, I'd like to tell you: Our federal government also sets out measures – important measures in the fight against violence! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] For example, our Minister of State, Mr Raab, and Mr Nehammer, Minister of the Interior, will hold a non-violence summit in the coming week on higher investment in non-violence projects, Mrs Brandstötter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fire brills]] In addition, cooperation with the Interior will also be strengthened safely in the framework of the campaign against violence against women. Since the start of our Federal Minister's office, the women's budget has increased by more than 40 percent, and the budget is now 14.6 million euros. That's the highest. Increase since 2010, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Overall, we invest more than 3 million euros in strengthening women and girls. There has also already been an extension of the existing measures in the fight against domestic violence, as the Federal Minister has already mentioned: the 24-hour helpline, a violence protection centre in every federal state and so on. There are many forms of violence, and I would like to expressly mention one area, namely the federal government's law package against hatred on the network, which will benefit women in particular. This makes an important contribution to the fight against sexism, because two thirds of all 18 to 23-year-old women are victims of hate-im-net crimes. Young girls experience this even three times more often than boys. Violence has no place in our society! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Violence affects all social strata, entirely independent of family status, educational status, age and religious or ethnic membership. That's why my final request is: Let us fight together across all party borders – across all party borders! – for more protection for women and girls affected by violence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50025	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50046	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Brandstötter put it to the fore: Although we are talking about a higher budget, what will help a budget increase if we have a minister who simply does not see and perceive the fates of people, and if we have a federal government that does not, in essence, raise the voice when it comes to the fates of women? When in the spring women suddenly had to look after the children, de facto were alone and did not know how it went on, de facto alone had the responsibility for childcare and said: Please, dear politics, support us, see that she finds appropriate framework conditions for us!, the Minister has silenced. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: This is not at all true!]] When these days the government responded with image videos to the care situation, politics, the minister kept silent. When Sebastian Kurz gave a press conference and said: The schools are in truth closed!, Werner Kogler has stood by and said: No, they're open anyway, and the parents in Austria haven't known themselves anymore, the minister kept silent. When Minister Fässmann said: So that children can be well taught at home, it makes sense to make a spatial separation, therefore: The Minister has silenced the West wing and has opened up a learning centre there, and in the guest house you could set up a games room for the children! when this reality of life was described by the Minister. When women were desperate because they did not know how to proceed, single mothers who had no job were desperate and were supposed to give their daughters and sons hope, the minister kept silent. Unfortunately, this is the policy that the Minister has learned. She started and learned together with Sebastian Kurz in the ministry: Do what is useful to yourself, and focus your policy on surveys! – Unfortunately, we experience this with the Minister in the field of integration policy: join in complaining about the foreigners and doing what is populist and works. All that counts for the surveys, it does, but in concrete terms, the things with which politics would serve people to be there for people who are burdened by fate to help where it is necessary, unfortunately, it does not do so. [[Abg. Weidinger: Unheard of!]] Unfortunately, we experience this: Policy on surveys. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I really ask you, Mrs Minister: So many women depend on you being a strong voice for them. Do not make a policy that you personally use, even if this is desired in Sebastian Kurzso's environment! Be the strong voice for all the women you need! Marketing should not be a priority. Let not only take action that works well, but take measures that really improve the lives of women in this country! Unfortunately, you have not done all that in the past. This is the policy you have unfortunately practiced in recent months.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50117	Mr Pfurtscheller. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50142	Dear colleagues! Mr Kucher just claimed that at the first lockdown, when it became difficult for women, the woman minister was silent. I'm actually correcting: There was a press conference with Ms Zadić at the beginning of March. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] – Are we supposed to be silent or are we allowed to make a press conference? Now you've got to get together, gal? So don’t shout “oh! ” [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the beginning of March, there was a press conference with Mrs. Raab and Mrs. Zadić, in which they announced what measures they had taken to support women affected by the lockdown. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50190	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50211	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Colleagues! Appreciate Seers! If measures are to be taken to prevent violence, it is also important to think of women with disabilities. Women with disabilities are a group that is not often seen but often affected by violence – more often than women without disabilities. Three forms of violence are distinguished. There is mental violence, which is violence by exerting pressure and/or by threats, abuses, or by persecuting someone, being harassed and/or being inundated. This form of violence affects women with disabilities two to three times as often. Then there is physical violence: This refers to the body; that means being beaten or beaten. This affects women with disabilities five times as often. Then there is sexual violence: We distinguish between sexualized violence – these are remarks about the body – and sexual violence – which is hand-on-violence. Considering the results of the IRKS study on experience and prevention of violence in people with disabilities, it appears that each fifth woman with disabilities tried or reported forced sexual intercourse. It is therefore necessary to take measures to support women with disabilities. In particular, good advice and long-term support for women are necessary in order to be able to process experienced traumas, but also to promote and strengthen the empowerment of women and thus prevent violence. A positive example, which can be mentioned here, is the project carried out by the Ministry of Women under the co-financing of the Ministry of Social Affairs, for women with disabilities. The aim of the project is to create a brochure in light language to support violence-affected women, to implement the brochure as a website, because we know that women find such a low level of access, to design and conduct workshops with women, but also to conduct workshops with women's references. The project is carried out by the association Ninlil and the association Easy to read. Both associations have been doing excellent support work with women with disabilities for years and do not tire of working for women's concerns. For example, Ninlil's peer advice for women with disabilities and the empowerment courses, for example, involving 83 female participants in 2018. The association Ninlil represents women's concerns in various bodies, for example he is also a member of the network of Austrian women's and girls' advisory services, and therefore they know very well that some of the consultants need specific training. Due to the staff resources, they then considered setting up a guidance for consultants in women’s institutions, entitled “Consultation for women affected by violence* with learning difficulties*” – I can’t draw up this as a chart. [[Keeping the above brochure in height]] Over the past two years, the Association of Easy Reading has produced important information brochures in light language, including “Women. Man. And much more.” – this offers the opportunity to learn about different sexual orientations in light language. [[Keeping the above brochure in height]] “In change.” allows women with learning difficulties to learn about the changing years in light language. [[Keeping the above brochure in height]] Because we know that there is an urgent need for information in light language, but also in ÖGS, in relation to sexual health, we have tabled a resolution to this effect in the last equal treatment committee. I'll tell you more about that tomorrow. With regard to violence against people with disabilities, it is also clear that men with disabilities are also experiencing disproportionate violence compared to men without disabilities. Of course, it needs more, it needs a broad alliance. I thank the associations Ninlil, easy reading, but also many others in the federal states – there are also great projects – in which great and important work is done. I took brochures and back on My place is still a technical journal on violence prevention, with best-practice examples of how to perform violence prevention in women and men with disabilities. Come on. Please look at me, grab a brochure, look in, because looking away can no longer be done!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50284	Mr Oberrauner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50305	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the beginning of my speech, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Covid crisis is particularly affecting women, and they are seriously affected. Women work disproportionately strongly in the service sector – in hotels and restaurants that are now busy – in commerce and so on. Their unemployment lasts longer, and at the same time women have to cope with the failure of kindergartens and schools. The main part of unpaid work is still taken over by women. These circumstances worsen the financial independence of women and push women back into outdated role models. This also shows a survey of the job portal Stepstone: Every second woman has the impression that in the corona crisis, the inequality between the sexes has worsened for her. During the lockdown, they feel that they are slipping back into the traditional roles. This assessment must be of concern to us all, and that is why the area of the Minister for Women and Equality in the next few years is very much called for to defend itself against the suppression of women on the labour market, the noticeable loss of income and pensions and the decline in equality between women in Austria. It is important to ensure that women and their particular living conditions are sufficiently and fairly taken into account in the measures of the Covid-19 assistance and the economic package. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The basis for a self-determined life of women, valued woman ministers, is equal pay for equivalent work and good training. Life free from violence should be a matter of course. The fact that there is help is good that there is help It's embarrassing. Women assume their responsibility – from childcare to family care – under the most difficult conditions, taking care of family, work, household and concerns about lockdowns and other things. Women take responsibility in society, and we expect the government to take responsibility for women. 30 million euros are 0.06 percent of the Covid budget: I think it would be a visible sign that you really mean it seriously and that you give women your appreciation not only in speech, but also in money. I think that helps to make something really change. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[9:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50418	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[The phone at the President's square is ringing.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Telephone!]] The Vice-President is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50461	Mr President. [[Call to the FPÖ: This one is on the phone!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr President, this is a donation to the Three Kings. [[The phone at the President's square is ringing again.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Just don't cancel! Ignore!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50507	It's neither my wife nor the rescue.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50528	I am not only a member of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, I am not only here as a family speaker of my party, but also as a man, who, through the experience of the Equal Treatment Committee, is very important through the discussions there, equal treatment and the fair distribution of opportunities between the sexes. Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, your statement has really affected me. And quite honestly, I would not have thought I was saying this once, but I stand by your side here and ask colleagues and, above all, colleagues in Social Democracy to: Work for women's rights, work for the fair distribution of opportunities! We from the ÖVP are definitely in there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Cake: It wasn't bad!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Equal treatment and women's policy, ladies and gentlemen, are of course not only reflected in the women's budget. This matter is a cross-sectional matter, thanks to the commitment of our women's minister, which can also be found in other areas – including, of course, in the family budget, in which we have defined under the scope of Objective 2 – that is the objective of equality – the "comfortability of family and profession". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] [[The phone at the President's square is ringing.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] It says: the expansion of child care in a qualitative and quantitative manner, the targeted information on child care, and the possibility of fatherly reference. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2017, since we have just had the child care account, it has been established that parents who share the relationship also receive a partnership bonus. To this end, the figures will tell us whether the impact target has been achieved – which, as I think, will be very informative – will not be available until the end of 2020. If, as a father, you work for the care directly after birth, there is an additional family time bonus. The aim of developing child care facilities in a qualitative and quantitative form, ladies and gentlemen, unites us across all sides of the party. It is also worth noting and interesting that recently a study was published in the newspaper “Der Standard” by Prof. Josef Zweimüller and by Ms. Posch from the University of Zurich in cooperation with the Universities of Princeton and Edinburgh and the London School of Economics. This study says very clearly that the sole extension of childcare facilities is too little. Many further steps are listed – I can't go into all of them here – and one of the key to success is the father's participation. We did get further, but it's still air up. Sometimes a look over the boundaries also helps. Germany, which is not unique to us, is much more so than we are. If you look at the German father's report a little more closely and read through, you can read the following in the preface of the women's minister Giffey: ‘Fatherhood is changing: Fathers today have a new understanding of themselves. They want to take care of their children actively and also in everyday life. Young couples, in particular, want to live the same way as parents. In fact, fathers raise and care for their children today more than they know from their own fathers. They often wish for more time for the family". [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Shortening of working time...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say: Yeah, that's right! I now assume that this quote is not a plagiarism. In any case, this quote is good and correct. The Quintessence is for me: We have to pick up the families, we have to pick up the people in their self-elected worlds, and we also have to take note that some are determined by the families themselves. The mere and sole testament of part-time work, the self-elected division of working time will be too little. We must take people on the road to answer them. I think there will also be a very different quality. We are in a good way, the paternal participation is increasing, but we have everything to do with the fact that there is even more possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50611	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50633	Mr President. Mrs Frauenminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Mr Sieber, you even have to smile when you said that the EIA is committed to equal opportunities. [[Abg. Sieber: I always smile...!]] That was delicious, a really delicious moment for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I want to start with: Mrs. Minister, we women simply do not want to be the losers of the crisis – and should not be. Speaking quite openly: At the moment, it looks like a bissel, because: Who does work in the hospitals, in the nursing facilities, in the grocery stores, in the schools, in the kindergartens, in the care work, in the home office, in home schooling? – These are mostly women. Who has lost the job in recent months due to the crisis or is in short work? – These are mostly women. We think of the tourism industry, we think of the gastro industry, but we also think of the airline industry, in which many women are in short supply. As a result of this or because of unemployment, they are clearly stuck with a leg in poverty – and you do not mind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do not think about simply increasing unemployment benefit, which is urgently needed – especially for women. They also don't think about getting shorter full-time on their feet so that more people have jobs again. Unfortunately, you don't think about all of this. But the situation is particularly dramatic for single parents. I think there's a lot of things going on in the room like this: We have not only received a call because many single parents simply don't know how to get over the rounds, how to finance the rent and how to feed their child. I honestly ask you: Why should a single parent vote in favour of your budget? What to do Your budget for single-parents? – The promised maintenance guarantee, which, by the way, in 2017, – I know, we repeat – in a TV appearance of all political groups, by all the top candidates and top candidates with a Taferl with Yes, so to speak, is not available to this day. They're still looking through their fingers. Let me also say a sentence on the protection of violence, because it is all, very central: Yeah, there's an increase. But you also know: In the field of anti-violence, it simply takes more money to implement the Istanbul Convention in the most comprehensive sense. The Grevio report, which is an expert body at the Council of Europe, clearly says: 210 million euros. As it is also the subject again and today from the side of Mr Pfurtscheller was also: Yes, it is quite central to fight hatred in the web in the most comprehensive sense. However, I would like to make it quite clear: There is no cent in your budget to fight violence on the net to do prevention work to raise awareness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski]] Col. Disoski, Zara doesn't get a penny from the women's budget. This is a very, very important institution in the fight against hatred on the net; it does not get any of it. Finally, I would like to stress: It's quite a lot to do, Mrs. Minister. Unfortunately, they have to move this forward to this 2021 budget. Women are paid in the crisis system holders, often much, much worse than men. We still do not have the whole piece of cake and many still do not have the same payment. Therefore, my recent urgent appeal: Let us not be women, Mrs Minister, the losers of the crisis! Do something at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50688	Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50720	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I start with a quote from Prof. Kautzky-Willer, who was a scientist of the year in Austria in 2016 and has been a professor of gender medicine at the University of Vienna since 2010: Gender-specific medicine must and will be an integral part of personalised medicine in the future. - Quote. With us, gender-specific medicine, or popular gender medicine, still leads a relative shadow existence – completely wrong. For our women's minister, women's health is also very important, and this is also illustrated in the budget. A few figures, facts and facts It is known – including you, dear Philipp – that women are getting older on average than men. [[Abg. Cake:... everything at the top!]] But did you know that women have less healthy years of life and almost twice as often suffer from drug reactions than men? Medicine – I see it every day with me – becomes female, the female rate is increasing continuously. In 2019, 62 percent of the participants in the medical examination test were women. That means: Almost two thirds of the coming doctors are women. So, dear men, dress warm: The future in medicine – and not only in medicine – will be female! Without wanting to think clichély: Women often treat more holistically and often take more time for a patient conversation. Another example: What do you think if You suddenly have chest pain left with radiation in your left arm? - Right, a heart attack. But: Women also show symptoms ranging from nausea to sleep disorders and fatigue. As a result, women die more often from infarction, although this is still considered to be typical men's disease. The example of heart attack is the best known when it comes to gender medicine. Gender medicine or gender-specific medicine means taking into account the biological differences between men and women in the research and treatment of diseases. The government programme focuses on women's health. I quote: ‘The improvement of women’s health is a particular concern [...]. Forced implementation of the action plan on women’s health and the preparation of an annual report on women’s health and the further development and use of gender medicine is therefore of particular importance.” In medicine, the man is still considered a prototype. The underrepresentation of women in pharmaceutical studies is significant, and it is also mainly male cells and experimental animals in studies. Women distribute and destroy medications in the body differently, as muscle mass, body weight and water content differ in women and men. There is not only a difference in the chromosomes, but also on organ, hormone, metabolism and the social psychological level. Gender-specific medicine also means more precise medicine, it allows for more individualised treatment; we also know that women and men react completely differently to the environment and diseases. Many prefer to use gender medicine instead of gender medicine, since gender medicine is mistakenly seen as feminist ideology by some. Gender medicine is only a part of gender-specific medicine, a term from social science in terms of self-perception, self-esteem or the role model. Another example is smoking and alcohol consumption. Women are more sensitive to nicotine and smoke. Severe asthma and bronchitis cases occur earlier than in men. There are also different risks in men and women in osteoporosis, renal and hepatic impairments. Our women's minister Susanne Raab has achieved an increase of more than 20 percent in the women's budget for 2021, with an increase for the first time since 2020 for many years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This money should be used mainly for measures such as the protection of violence, for strengthening the equality of women, and for the maintenance and expansion of women's advisory and care facilities. Instead of the usual thanks to Mrs Minister, I would like to formulate and describe this as follows: Smart and target for the woman – wow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50762	Mr Reimon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50784	Mr President. High house! Women's policy, equality policy can be found in many budget items, budget points, not just in this one. We have already decided something for a pension reform and are trying to significantly improve the situation of women there, and the same applies to other areas. Mrs Kucharovich said earlier that there is nothing in the budget against hatred on the net. – This applies to the women’s budget, but not to the Justice budget, there are several million fixed on this point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] It is thanks to God in many areas, and so it should be. It's supposed to be thought far-reaching. I would, however, like to address one point which we must stress once again, particularly, and that is violence against women. The perpetrators are mostly men, so I think we have to talk about men and express ourselves to them. There must be more! We are in favour of reorganising this area, it needs more investment. This can not only be expected from women, it is not just women. I've heard from the panel several calls to women: Turn to the relief agencies, call, seek support! – You have to tell the men, that's what you have to tell the perpetrators: You are perpetrators, you have to take care of it yourself!, and this must be said to the friends of these men: If you realize that in relationships violence is exercised that your friends are violent, then do something, do not look away and keep silent! – I think it is our task to say this in this clarity. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Austria is a beautiful country, we praise it all the time. – 20 percent of women over 15 years old were victims of violence in Austria. When ye pass through this land, and look at these beautiful villages, ye shall know: Behind each fifth facade lives a woman who was beaten. Perhaps you should make this known much more often in this clarity and roar into this world. Perhaps one last point to this: The Istanbul Convention is now de facto in the tenth year. Austria has joined, has been reviewed, the Council of Europe has considered this. Austria has been reviewed and we will have to propose measures next year, propose measures, get into action and devote ourselves to the perpetrators. This must be a core task of this coalition, which must be a core task of this policy. A very last sentence as a European speaker: While we are standing here, the European budget is being discussed in Brussels. Viktor Orbán threatens with a veto. Why does he threaten with a veto? – Because the observance of the rule of law is demanded by him because the way in which same-sex couples are treated in Hungary violates the rights. This is a question of the rule of law, and we cannot accept that Viktor Orbán is blocking and surrendering. – This is not a women’s policy but a gender equality policy, but this item on the agenda now includes this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50841	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50862	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter presented contains the objective of achieving a peaceful, safe and equal living of the population in Austria, achieving a comprehensive equality, of course economic equality, and limiting violence. – These are things and concerns that we can all join together with that we all wish for. However, those who now expect real solutions to achieve this goal in the statements, budget documents or even in the discussion I have now followed are being offered in depth. We will not be able to deal with and solve the real problems with a few advice points here and there, with information offensives, with projects and information leaflets. And I fear that even the gender budgeting – I don't know, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek – will not really bring us there. Yes, we all want to live in a peaceful and secure Austria. This requires, above all, and above all, an effective and effective security policy, because a good security policy is a good women's policy. The basic requirement for us to be able to develop family and professionally – we can do that ourselves – is that we can move freely and safely on the road. You have to look around in the EU a little bit: If already in Sweden, the pioneer country for equality and equality, a truly significant part of women are afraid of going to the street, leaving the apartment – above all in the cities – is afraid of robbery, then this has to make us thinkful. It is no different in the German cities, and unfortunately the trend is also going in this direction with us in Austria. We have seen an increase in crime against women everywhere, an increase in rape, assaults, disrespects – unfortunately, a sad circumstance – and, last but not least, terror has now reached us in Vienna. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I'm talking about real, true violence. So far, everyone here has addressed the project “Hass in the Net” – it is about verbal violence, which actually exists and on which the Federal Government is now focusing exclusively; the prosecutors are to be massaged there to eliminate verbal derailments – but I would like to speak of the true, of real violence, of the real attacks that the women leave behind in a restless life. I think it would still be more important to resist violence on the streets. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anyone who refuses to really address the real causes of this violence on the street will not continue. We owe this increase in all the countries I have mentioned and also here in Austria to an outstanding part of illegal immigration and the increasing establishment of a patriarchal society for which you are responsible. [[towards Federal Minister Raab]] It will also be with information offensives and folders, I believe, not done, even with mosque closures that do not take place at all. You really have to ask for something different and different: for example, like the French Prime Minister Emmanuel Macron – a bit awakened by the terrorist attacks in France – who found that terrorism and illegal immigration must be thought together, otherwise you cannot deal with the problems and not solve them. In the same way, women's policy, security policy and illegal immigration must be thought together. Everything else is empty speech, these are only words that won't do anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Accordingly, there was now a declaration by the EU Ministers of the Interior of the 13th century. November 2020, that is, at the very moment in which exactly this reference, which Macron has called for, was naturally dropped this link between excessive migration and terrorism, and all the demands of integration policy to migrants. That means: With a peaceful, secure Austria, which is set in the objective of action, it will, as I am afraid, be nothing or look bad. I hope there's a course correction. We are still devoting ourselves to equal opportunities and equal rights, which are a great goal for all of us. In this context too, there is an EU strategy paper, which also serves as a model for the Federal Government: ‘Everyone should feel free to be who they are – without [...]. This is what Europe is about [...].” – Yes, of course: In a free, free, democratic society, as we have enjoyed for the last decades, it is natural that no one has anything against it. We should all be able to live according to our fascism, develop ourselves further and deliver our services and be tolerant. In the case of what is done here under this title and is also hidden in this strategy paper, however, sexual justice is only a pretext. It is about ideological reeducation, and we are opposed to it! Let us take a brief look at the essential points: When it comes to the resolution of the biological sexes, I can only say: What are you doing? You can complain by nature or divine creation that there are women and men, but please not here, neither in Vienna nor in Brussels. There are women and men, we have a biological sex. I insist on: I'm a biological woman, and I don't think being a woman is a bad social habit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to be treated as a woman. This approach that gender is, so to speak, just a social construct destroys all achievements of women's emancipation. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is embarrassing!]] – The gender language is embarrassing, as you can now see! [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I only address the project because it fills thousands of pages, because Brussels is busy and Vienna is busy with it. For this purpose, positions and professor chairs are financed, and then strange things come out, such as – all is not thought out and not populist – that we should express ourselves as follows: the Federation of Tax Payers. – This includes all of them. I'd say, It's much easier to pay the taxes! The German Bundeswehr deals with the expression of the female degrees of service, so that this will be more effective. It is discussed whether it should be called Lieutenant, Fieldwebelin or Brigadegeneralin. – Well, the Bundeswehr will surely be much more defensive! By the way, the introduction of these female degrees of service to the soldiers fails because they do not want to. They are concerned with real equality, because they can achieve these functions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is about the content, it is about the function, but not about the designation, not about the eternal origin and the sex. They want to be easy – that's what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We here say thank God all still: Ladies and gentlemen! – In many German cities this is pomped and considered to be quite, very bad. The name of the future is: Dear people! – This is also done in the administrative language: It's no longer possible to say: Mr Schulz, what are your concerns? Mrs Schulz, what do you want? Please, you from me? - It's wrong! Only the first names and surnames should be used. In the future, in order not to express the sex, because it is discriminatory, it is obvious that: You, Schulz, what do you want? [[Mr Belakovich, Mr Brandstötter and Mr Scherak.]] As I said, All these approaches are actually to be found. I do not know if we in Austria have anything of it when, in connection with the 2.11., this terrible day, even on public-law television, terrorists are spoken. I don't know if we can be proud of it. The gender language does not help anyone and only conceals the real problems. It is very significant that in the women's budget the role of women as a mother of children is not at all present and is not relevant. This obviously does not belong to the new diversity. This phrase policy and the wrong way will make it nothing with this objective of effect, which we could actually all join together, namely to live together peacefully, securely and with equal opportunities. But we will continue to fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50956	No one is reported in word for this anymore. The discussions on this area are thus over. [[10:25:21]] UG 20: Work UG 25: Family and Youth
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e50989	We come to the subdivisions of work as well as family and youth. The debate is under one. I thank Mrs. Raab and welcome Mrs. Federal Minister Aschbacher. Mr Muchitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51017	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can speak on the subject of labour market. I think we all here in this room agree on what a budget must be in the crisis. It must secure jobs and businesses, it must ensure small incomes in particular, it must compensate for the loss of private investment with public investment. This budget must ensure our health system, allow for the development and maintenance of childcare, and ultimately ensure jobs, as has been said. – In all these points, which are so important for a functioning budget in the crisis, the Federal Government has failed. It has therefore failed because it has done things that do not achieve the objectives it has announced at press conferences. I would just like to make a few points: Their funding with the casting can devour a lot of money. However, these subsidies do not arrive where they are to arrive. One example of this is the promotion of apprentices: They promote companies with record revenues, with profits that pay millions of dividends and bonuses. These companies that don't need this money, promote with an apprenticeship promotion! They do not thus promote those young people who need a teaching place. Statistics are very illustrious. For comparison: With September, 8.9 percent less young people started teaching than in the previous year. This promotion has not arrived where it should arrive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second suggestion: If the objective is to create more employment, then it needs concrete training and employment programmes. Work-seeking people need tailor-made training, which involves having a realistic job opportunity after this training, and it is best to do this through foundations. Those jobseekers who can be re-trained and trained via a foundation are already in most cases in contact with their next employer. This has made sense in the past, and this makes sense now, especially in view of the greatest record unemployment in the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third suggestion: With regard to the unemployed of the group 50 plus, it needs incentives for companies and for communities. We do not always need to discuss action 20 000 here in the House, but exactly such models need: Employment programmes with which jobs are created for people of the group 50 plus. The fourth point concerns older long-term unemployed: Unfortunately, we have record numbers for the older long-term unemployed, who lack only a few months and years of retirement. We must try to get these people away from the stress of the application and from the stress of training. Alternatively, a bridge model, as proposed by the president of the ÖGB Wolfgang Katzian, should be considered, with which a bridge is built by long-term unemployment into the pension. We thus save resources at the AMS and the affected people also have a bridge in their pension. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last point I would like to make is: It is also necessary to insist on the maintenance of jobs when granting public support and premiums for businesses. In this regard, we have taken a clear position as SPÖ: Those who receive taxes must also receive jobs in Austria. In conclusion: We have opportunities to make these grants and premiums, which are now distributed billions of dollars, EU-law in such a way that these grants are linked to grants to Austrian companies, to contracts to companies where Austrian products are purchased. There are models that work, and we should also use these models in all these incentives and investments that we make here. Finally, a comment on another point addressed to the two club leaders of ÖVP and Greens: They held a press conference on Tuesday at 9.30 a.m. on the abolition of the hacker scheme, the discount-free long-term insurance scheme. You announced publicly at 9.30 a.m. at this press conference: The opposition parties will receive an application here in good time. - To this day, no one has come in. That's unfair, that's undemocratic! [[Abg. Belakovich: This is no surprise now! It's always like that!]] If you have this fairness and want to comply with what you say in front of the running camera, please send us this request immediately! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51071	Mr Zopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51093	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the TV screens! Since many people go to work in Austria and pay taxes, Austria is an excellent social state. This has just been mentioned by Mr Muchich. But one thing I can't represent: The fact that the state of Austria is being milked only. The SPÖ confuses something in the area of distribution justice. You do not share your own money – like St. Martin's coat – no, it is about the money of taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It cannot be the goal of making the social hammock even softer than it is now. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The numerous applications for an increase in unemployment benefit to 70 percent are not just death for short-time work, but simply covered. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Members of the SPÖ keep tablets up to date with the inscriptions “My Right to a Healthy Life” and “Happy Birthday, Children’s Rights”.]] I wonder, Where is social justice? A percentage increase in unemployment benefit also strengthens high incomes in unemployment considerably more than the low ones. The lump sum of 450 euros strengthens each to the same extent. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The unemployed hairdresser gets as much as the unemployed foreman. In turn, dear SPÖ, this is a contribution to the closure of income shears. Especially in difficult times and especially in the area of low-earners, this measure is so effective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why the opposition criticizes this is simply incomprehensible to me. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, you don't understand!]] We help where we can help, but please stay at the bottom of reality! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Everyone and every unemployed person is one or one too much. That's why the government - listen carefully, dear SPÖ! – EUR 1.5 billion for short-time work,EUR 700 million for the employment foundation, which is used to re-training jobseekers, EUR 57 million for trainees up to EUR 18, 105 million for the reintegration of long-term unemployed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scrolling]] It must always be about keeping as many people as possible in employment and bringing the unemployed back into work. I would like to compare the 2021 budget in the Corona crisis with an unknown mountain tour. There are mountains over which you have to go, otherwise the path doesn't go on. You need to know – if you climb a mountain, you have to be aware of it – that the summit is not the end. The art of the mountain tour Corona crisis is to keep home with its forces. The Federal Government has prepared itself for this Coronaberg with a state budget that is always well managed. We have a good condition, which is why we can now afford to use the resources and to give people a hold on and safety in the difficult passages with our models. The most important thing in an unknown mountain tour is always the belief that we can do it together. Finally, I would like to say: Everyone in this country now has the opportunity to contribute to addressing the crisis, especially now in the pre-Christmas season. We support Austrian trade, Austrian gastronomy and Austrian businesses, because only in this way can we secure countless jobs in the enterprises, only in this way can our economy come into swing – a business package called self-responsibilities of all Austrians! [[Abg. Belakovich:...! He's too close!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: When the shops are locked...?! That's where you have to laugh, please.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ and intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS]] [[new calls to FPÖ and SPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51238	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51259	Mr President. Minister! Mr Zopf, I think you have made too many mountain tours, otherwise you would have noticed that the business and trade are blocked. [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] It is also not about mountain tours, it is about the Austrian labour market, and the Austrian labour market has been deliberately broken by this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. It was interesting to hear from the mouth of an ÖVPler woman who is here: Well, if you were to increase the rate of replacement for unemployment, then you would also get the more that you had previously earned more! – Yes, it is, but that corresponds to a performance idea. I don't know, he's obviously lost with you. It's no longer important for you people to perform, it's no longer important that you encourage people to do it and that you give people courage btt to do something. You just want to demolish them to alms and bitters. That's what you've been doing in this country for months, and that's why it looks like that in this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, Mrs Minister – now I am coming to you, because it does not even pay off to deal with Mr Zopf for so long – we are in a completely veritable crisis. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] We have almost half a million unemployed, we have hundreds of thousands in short work, and the situation is no better. We now have a second so-called hard lockdown, and the only thing that comes from you is a friendly smile. I say it honestly to you, Mrs Minister, you cannot smile at this crisis, and if you note that there are 7 000 additional unemployed within a week, your answer is: Well, 1,400 we have now accommodated as a contact tracker!, after apologise, what are the unemployed to think about in this country? Faith You're actually saying that this will stabilize everything now? Thinking Why don't you go after what's going to happen next year? The unemployment rate will explode! If we stand here today in a year, we will all wonder what is going on in this country. We have the highest unemployment rates since the beginning of the Second Republic, and the only thing that comes to your mind are alms that you want to distribute to the people. It doesn't work. The colleague then creates himself and says that we should shop in Austrian trade. – Yes, we would like to, but the trade must be blocked! You're making a second lockdown, you're blocking people's existence! You're ruining the people in this country, and all of this, without you thinking about alternatives without giving them substitutes. They just want to degradate people and just to bitters. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this year almost 10 percent fewer young people have started teaching. Do you know what that means? – For years the complaint has just come from the field of entrepreneurs, there are too few skilled workers. Instead of promoting that we continue to train apprentices – that is, the skilled workers of the future – is the only answer of the Federal Government: Well, if you don't find a teaching place now, we'll find a school place somewhere, because at home schooling it doesn't matter! – This is the access you have. They don't care about the citizens out there! They do not think for a minute about what this means for the Austrian population and how desperate many people are now. They have not only less income, they have more stress, they have home schooling. And what else you've done, Minister: Last week in the Committee They stood up and proclaimed quite a lot: If the schools are now being blocked again, then there is the right to special care periods for everyone! - What did you do? – They lock the schools on the one hand, but at the same time say that the schools are open anyway. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There is no teaching in schools, ladies and gentlemen – you can shake the head as much as you want. [[Abg. Salzmann shakes the head]] They're making life hell to people. They want the kids to stay home. [[Abg. Salzmann shakes his head again.]] – Then lock up the schools and teach! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] And stop those pocket tricks! That's crazy what you're doing here! You break the children's future, you take our children's education! [[Abg. Salzmann shakes the head]] Do you know what that means? – The young people have been sitting at home the whole last semester. Now they've been sitting back home since the autumn holidays. There's no definite instruction. [[New call of the abg. Salzmann.]] These young people are supposed to finish a matura in a few months or in a few years, they are supposed to enter the profession – they take them any chance. They take them months of education, you take them years of life, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! And there's nothing about it, you don't care, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now a word for your work foundation: 700 million euros for the work foundation divided into two years – yes, that's 350 million euros for re-training, but, you know, with so many unemployed people, it's a drop on the hot stone, and yet I haven't experienced one that was so happy and satisfied. We have received numerous e-mails from people who wanted to be re-trained in the field of care – an important profession that will become ever more important, also a career with a future, quite positive. And what do these people write to us? – They write to us, they fall out of all systems, they are partly not even socially insured. We are confronting you with this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and what was your reaction? - Nothing. Silence. You didn't respond. Interested She's not really – and that's the problem. You also take the courage to be re-trained because you leave them on the track. Many no longer know how they can afford daily life, because they fall out, because your regulations are so funny that someone who is trained as a caregiver on a FH will even fall out of all systems if someone is re-educated in a nursing school, then he will get something. Say that to the people before or fix it at last! You know it for weeks now. We have already told you several times in the committees, but to this day this problem is correct. Mrs Minister, there is no way to make a labour market policy. What you're doing here is killing the labour market. They are really the death angel of the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51402	Mr Salzmann spoke on a point of order. I should like to point out once again and ask that the masks be inserted and not left on the pult. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51429	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Belakovich, for me, it's completely incomprehensible what you're giving in front of you, what the schools are doing. It is not a single school in Austria closed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But no lessons! That's exactly what I said! That's the mean trick!]] - Listen to me! It is not a single school in Austria closed. [[Abg. Kassinger: No school lessons!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But it's not school lessons!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – Listen to me, I'll explain it to you! If you don't know, listen to me! [[Abg. Belakovich: You don't need to explain that to me! Do you really believe all people...?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Do you have any children, or what?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: There is no school that has lessons!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] There are currently no school closures. [[Abg. Kassinger: I don't know how you do this...!]] It's been the upper level for a few weeks in Distancelearning, it's currently, in the lockdown, the lower level, the secondary level I and the folk school also in distance learning, but these schools are open. Don't let this fall under the table all the time, this is completely unfair to teachers and directors, and also to the students! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stefan: They don't want that at all! They don't want that!]] [[Abg. Smoking: Teachers don't want this at all and the directors!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] These schools are open and every student can come to school if there is no support at home if the child needs learning support if the child does not have IT devices. [[Abg. Belakovich: But there is no teaching!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's not true!]] That you don't like that, I understand.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51634	This is not an actual correction. You must first explain the fact that was wrong, and then say it correctly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51676	At special care time – this is the second point –: [[Abg. Stefan: You explain this to us now!]] The special care period continues to apply, the legal claim still exists for the cases provided by the law – and you know the law, read it again! [[Abg. Smoking: They ruin the chances of our children!]] [[Abg. Loacker:... finally the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Smoking:... the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. You are incapable of holding the presidency!]] The special care period shall apply to cases in which a closure by the health authority has been declared in accordance with the law. [[Abg. Bernhard: (in the direction of President Sobotka) Yes hello!]] In Distancelearning, the schools are open.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51805	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51826	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! 2021 is a record year for the labour market budget. I can't remember ever spending more money on employment, the fight against unemployment and the safeguarding of income. This is a record, however, which is not a cause for rejoicing, because in reality it only shows that we are in a severe labour market crisis and that the challenges to policy for the next few years are enormous to deal with the consequences of the covid crisis on employment, income, on the labour market accordingly. The current figures are known as follows: ==References== In November, over 440,000 people were reported unemployed or in training courses, nearly 170,000 were part-time, and the trend is rising. As pleased as it is that under the second lockdown, business support has been linked to the preservation of employment – i.e. without the level of employment remaining the same, there is no support, Nevertheless, it is to be feared that unemployment will continue to rise in the coming weeks and months. It is therefore also clear where the labour market budget must go. On the one hand, and this also happens, additional funds will be allocated for short-time work, 1.5 billion euros, including 2021, and the education measures under the job offensive, the so-called Corona Labour Foundation, will be budgeted at 461 million euros, including the EUR 33.6 million educational bonus. In addition, EUR 25 million is needed for more AMS staff, and this is also a very important measure, because of course the need to address the increase in the number of unemployed also to increase the supply of support and advice and to relieve workers in the AMS. Of course, what is also relevant is the donation for unemployment benefit and emergency aid. More than EUR 4 billion is planned for 2021, which is more than EUR 600 million than in the 2020 budget estimate. We will have to do everything in 2021, and this is precisely what this job offensive is to be used: for work foundations, for training, for qualification, but also for measures for people in long-term unemployment, in socio-economic projects, in projects that are close to the labour market and are intended to lead back to the labour market. It is precisely now that we must do everything we can to prevent and limit long-term unemployment, in which we are actually already living in a phase in which long-term unemployment for many people is unfortunately a reality, because simply the Corona crisis has not allowed any additional employment over long distances, especially for people who have been affected by unemployment for a long time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, the job offensive in the framework of the corona training measures is only one part. Training, qualification, further education will work if, at the same time, appropriate investment is made to create the appropriate jobs, and, fortunately, there are hundreds of millions of euros spent in the field of climate protection, renewable energy, public transport expansion, massive investment and economic instruments, which will actually lead and lead to more employment, with one thing to be clear: All these measures will only work if we have actually overcome the severe health crisis. It is all the more important to support those people who are currently affected by unemployment and massive loss of income, and we did so in 2020 with the increase in unemployment benefit, with the increase in the amount of emergency aid to those of unemployment benefit, with the family bonus, which has been paid once, also with the reduction of the income tax rate in the lower area. All of these measures have ultimately contributed to the fact that, fortunately, at least a study with an initial estimate by the Wifo, the IHS, but also by the Inequality Institute of the WU and other research institutions in a first analysis, at least prevented the rise in the risk of poverty and a growing disparity in income. But that won't be enough. We will have to do more in 2021, and we will also have to take further measures to prevent poverty and poverty. The 1 000 euro compensatory allowance rate, which will come and which will also have an impact on higher minimum security, is a step, as is the early starter bonus, which will strengthen the income of people with low and medium pensions in the medium term, especially women, but also many men. This labour market budget is an important contribution to giving people perspectives. But it will certainly not have been the last contribution It's gonna need more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51895	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e51917	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, Mr Salzmann, who, under the pretext of an actual correction, is here and who gives a lukewarm speech and is obviously unable to read the Rules of Procedure of the National Council as a trained lawyer. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is crazy!]] Unfortunately, the President has heard a little bit and not noticed so clearly that someone has used the Rules of Procedure for a speech. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Now to the labour market budget: The Covid crisis accelerates the process of change and changes the labour market massively and sustainably. When we look into the budget, we see that 60 percent of total work and social expenditure actually goes into structural and non-structural measures. Three out of four additional euros in the labour market and social budget in total go into pensions – three out of four euros go into pensions, so where we really do not have a crisis – and in the labour market – where we have the crisis – only a fraction flows! [[Interference of Federal Minister Aschbacher.]] And even from the labour market budget, a large fraction of the pension insurance is going back to the part-time insurance contributions. We are therefore pushing more money from the labour market budget into pension insurance than we are in short work. Ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that a lot of money is being spent on the labour market, I must tell you that this is not the case. The lion's share always eats up pensions. The people who are on the labour market and who generate the tax money with which we receive this state are always in second place. [[Intervocations by Deputies Lausch and Wurm.]] The unemployment rate is approaching the 500 000 mark, which is only the matte beginning. The second lockdown will only show its consequences, the job reduction programs will continue and the third lockdown will be ante portas, just as the government is stumbled and will consider from week to week what it might do. That is to say, we will be closer to the millions of unemployed than to the 400 000 from today's point of view, and we should ask ourselves: [[Abg. Worm: Unfortunately!]] What's going on? – But no help package can ever balance what you're breaking. What the government is doing is not the famous policy of “The Hammer and the Dance”, because then one would have packed the hammer in March and would now have to balance carefully through the crisis. [[Abg. Worm:... just hammer!]] They're doing: Hammer and on, hammer and on and on in February then again hammer and once again on – no company can survive! [[with closed hands representing a hammering]] [[The closed hands now wide open]] [[More recently, the described movements present]] [[one more time representing the described movements]] At Amazon and Zalando, the sect corks blow every week – weekly! – and they are already waiting for the next press conference; in fact, they could bake sect daily. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] Although there is now a work foundation of 700 million euros, we do not even know exactly what is being done with the money. There will therefore be no effective control, as it has not been said in advance what you want to achieve with the 700 million euros. That's a nice number that's in the budget, but that's all it is. What you're doing is structural conservation. It is spent on short-time work. This gives us jobs that already exist, but actually the goal should be to bring those people who are in short work back into real full-time jobs. Nothing's happening! 450 Euro Bonus gets someone who stays in unemployment. In fact, we also have to pay this bonus if one changes from a short-time job to a full-time non-stated job and takes on the risk of a job change – you have to reward it with 450 euros, because it relieves the state fund much more than that which you keep in short-time work with a lot of money. Mr Koza praised the start-up bonus: The start-up bonus is a part-time promotion, and it will strengthen what we already have in women, namely the part-time fall. This promotion for part-time jobs is exactly the wrong thing. When we look at the change we experience: Everyone now works more often from home, if not all the time. The rules for the home office you have announced need longer than the vaccine development. For March, you have announced new rules to us to the Home Office. I hope that we will be a bit further in the crisis – but in the labour market crisis, we will not be further. You have put a guide to Home Office online: Appreciated citizens, if you read it, learn For example, you should set up your home office in such a way that you do not cross a ladder to the workplace! – So such valuable tips are in there, and for this we need a Ministry of Labour; at least we don’t need a lot of budget for the guide. They have also announced that the special care time can now also be combined with the short work. The fact that you are opening the door to abuse is not surprising to you, namely that you can now send the employees in short work and in special care time because you actually have zero work for them. For this purpose, 50 percent of the short work is done and this short work is covered for four weeks with special care time, which can be freely agreed. You don't even notice such abuse! For this the tax money is spent, but not for the transformation of the economy and for the creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52032	Mr Loacker, I have not heard it. You can also read it in the Minutes that I have pointed out to them that it is not an actual correction and that it has to put it differently. The Vice-President is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52056	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In addition to labour market policy, we also discuss family policy in this chapter, and of course family policy is a very, very important issue. It is multi-layered and, as we have often heard, family policy is also a cross-cutting matter, it is about social policy, about women and men, i.e. about equality policy, about health policy, about labour market policy and also about education policy – the series would certainly continue. But it is worth taking a look at the numbers on the UG 25: Here we have payouts of 7,59 billion euros, which is an increase of 191.3 million euros or – as a percentage – an increase of 2.6 percent. I think we can already congratulate the Minister for her negotiations on this result. I know the opposition doesn't like these words of thanks very much, but I want to say to you: If you agree to this good budget, we thank you too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm:... by short thank you...!]] [[Abg. Kucher:... Thank you!]] But what about the development of these disbursements in the medium-term perspective? – To look at this is also worth a look. Currently, the share of total budget disbursements in 2021 is 7.8 percent, and this figure will rise to 8.9% by 2024. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very substantial increase, which shows that this government wants to do a lot for families in Austria. 89 percent of these 7.5 billion euros are mostly transfers. 4.7 billion euros go to private households, directly to families, because, among other things, they are family allowances and childcare allowances. 1.9 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, go to public bodies, mainly the pension contributions for child training periods and health insurance contributions or the partial replacement for weekly payments. There is also a considerable amount of funding from which the School Book Action and the Student and Apprenticeship Free Travels are financed. Of course, the Covid-19 pandemic has also affected the estimate 2021. Additional funds of EUR 50 million will be made available from the Flaf for the necessary family hard work. Even in 2020, the pandemic of course had a significant impact, it was necessary – EUR 665 million for the one-time payment in September, the money paid to families together with family support, EUR 117 million for family hard work, EUR 20 million for the extension or use of the family bonus. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] But since it is also a cross-sectional matter and I do not just want to pray down here, what we political leaders say about it, it is worth listening to what has to be said by outsiders working in family policy to all that has happened. I would like to quote the Catholic Family Association of Austria, which said on 9.4.: ‘Familiesverband welcomes the opening of the Family Hard-Function Fund’; on 23.4.: ‘Familiesverband welcomes the increase in the Family Hard-Function Fund’; on 24.4.: “Catholic Family Association welcomes plan for the gradual opening of schools”. On 4.6., the Catholic Family Association of Austria welcomes the guidelines for holiday care. – This can still be carried on. If you hear these feedbacks, I think we can say with fug and right, it has been done a lot right. Of course, it is also important in family policy. It is important to keep a close eye on the development in the next few years, because the pandemic makes it even more difficult when it comes to depositing into the Flaf. I am glad that the debate nevertheless made it clear that family benefits are guaranteed – this was also confirmed by the budget service. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank our parliamentary budget service, together with Helmut Berger, at the head of the budget analysis we are being provided with. This is an excellent basis for working with which all of us Members can work perfectly. – Thank you very much for this provision! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in summary one can say that with this budget we give the Austrian families the signal that we have secured their achievements, that we work for them and that they can rely on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52123	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52148	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[The speaker puts a table entitled “Children have rights! ” on the speaker’s desk.]] On today's day of children's rights, I would like to address you as a Minister for Labour and Family Affairs, because tomorrow we will decide on the right to special care time which we have been demanding for a very long time. But today is today, and the decision will not be taken until tomorrow, so the legal claim does not apply. Someone came to me by e-mail: A child is separated – needs to be separated – because another child from the class has been tested positively. The mother as a K1 person turns because she does not know who to contact to the county administration authority – and she says: If we don't mind, we're not responsible. That is true, but of course it means a great helplessness and uncertainty for the parents. From tomorrow, they will hopefully have an end because this right to special care will apply if a child has to be separated. But what has not happened in all these days and weeks, Mrs Minister, and I cannot release you from this responsibility even now, is the following: The parents have not yet known exactly whether the schools are locked or whether they remain open. It is not a question of locking up or locking up a building, but of whether or not teaching is going to take place or is only provided for. Legally, of course, it will be so that children can spend the half or the whole day there if the school is open and care is provided, then it is also possible to take care of the afternoon. But now you have to imagine that a mother is sitting at the supermarket bank, until 18 or 19 o'clock – the shops are not open longer – and the child is cared for in the meantime. In the evening, it will be learned when everyone is tired when everyone is exhausted. The Federal Chancellor says: Makes all home schooling, hits few people, as few people as possible! [[Call the FPÖ:Yes!]] However, the woman must go to work because she works in a system-related profession, and she does not have a right to special care time because the school is open. So, now at 8 p.m. or at 7 p.m., I don't know when, learn – but maybe you can't really learn how the distance learning would provide, because the family may have problems paying the rent, or because there's not even a terminal device with the distance learning is possible. I say to you in your dual function, Mrs. Minister: In these areas, serious failures have occurred. The parents have been deceived, they have trusted that there will be a legal claim when the schools are closed. Now the schools are open, but the children are not being taught, so this sign here Every child has the right to education! [[point to the panel on the speaker's desk]] Every child has the right to be able to teach – but somehow that has not worked. Nevertheless, it would be important, Mrs Minister, for the right to special care to be decided tomorrow not only in the event that children are separated, but also in the case of a caregiver in the private sector and family members to take care of them. The Federal Government would have had this army, but the chancellor could still have saved himself.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52190	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52215	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Just briefly to my predecessor from the SPÖ: Don't worry, it doesn't have to be learned in the evening, because the schools are open. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Worm:... work!]] [[Abg. Singer: Are your children also in school?]] I believe that this is important not only for parents but also for children, and there will also be a learning accompaniment. At special care time, we can discuss in detail tomorrow. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] On the budget figures in the family budget, the previous speaker of the ÖVP has already spoken in detail, I do not want to repeat that now. However, I would like to address an aspect that is equally important in the debate: This is the situation of children and young people in the Corona crisis, especially against the background of tomorrow's day of children's rights. I think that we all have noticed what it means to be able to do with a warm round with colleagues and colleagues, with friends or in large family groups, only limited or no longer possible. Now imagine that you are 15 or 18 years old: If you're young, the world seems very small to you anyway, and now this world has become even smaller. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] This even smaller world now consists of limited social contacts that take place more or less within the families. To get it to the point: Children are not only affected by the crisis, but children are in the middle of the crisis. To address something really important: I had a conversation with those responsible from Council on Wire last week, and we know that the situation is not easy at the moment – but the figures that have been mentioned are really dramatic. To name just a few: There was an increase of 220 percent in anxiety in children, i.e. fears of the future, fear that someone will suffer, fear that parents will lose the job and so on. A 240 percent increase in sleep problems caused by the changed daily rhythm, stress, overload and so on. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, please: Do it! Change!]] There is an increase of 146 percent in mental illness, i.e. depression, panic attacks, forced disorder and so on. What is really worrying is the increase of 54 percent in suicidal thoughts. Next week is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, and we must always remember that there is violence against children. There is an increase of 88 percent of those cases where children and young people experience physical violence in their families. Of course, these numbers do not always reflect in the ads, because the dark number is really huge. However, we must not only look at this, we must also have a cross-cutting approach to the possible long-term consequences. What I would like to say here: Unfortunately, mental illness is always confused with weakness in our society – but a life with a mental illness needs a lot of strength! I would therefore like to say again to all young people: Unfortunately, we cannot predict when this difficult situation will be over, but really don't stop you from getting help! One thing is clear: Better times will come again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52296	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52320	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. This was a shocking fact-finding report by Green Members Neßler on what this government has done. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Perhaps in memory of the greens: You're in government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are other records of this government to mention – Federal Chancellor Kurz was always very proud, according to the motto: We're the best! – and with these records become You'll probably enter the history books: Thanks to this government, we have the highest unemployment since the Second World War. It's a record that you can hang around once. [[Abg. Obernosterer: What are you talking about?]] [[Further calls to ÖVP and Greens.]] Thanks to this black and green federal government, we have the highest public debt since the Second World War. Thanks to this government, we have the biggest fall in gross domestic product since the Second World War, and thanks to this government we have the highest rates of infection worldwide as far as Covid is concerned. [[Green call for tender]] So this government is sure to go into the history books. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Litschauer and Mr Schalmeiner.]] – Yes, the truth hurts, I know, but you have to mention it again and again, so that no one forgets it either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Soundmeiner:... with loud pain!]] So, once again to the details: At present, some 450 000 people are unemployed and 170 000 are in short-term employment. This increases dramatically weekly and we are only at the beginning of this second or actually third lockdown. Dramatic – if you look more closely at the AMS figures – Mrs. Minister, we have an increase in unemployment in width. In other words, we have more unemployed men in the main working age between 25 and 50, we have, for the first time in this brutality, across all the fields of training, from academic to primary school graduates, more unemployed. In principle, unemployment is increasing dramatically everywhere and we are not even among the top tens in Europe as far as unemployment is concerned, which is also a record of this federal government. I can still remember times when we were first, second or third in terms of least unemployment, now we are, I believe, 11 or 12th. So these are the successes of this turquoise-green federal government. Minister! You also told me again and again in discussions that optimism and courage are important. I would So you're asking to put a sign again today. Mrs Minister, please take the mask off, show the population that this Federal Government is going forward, wants to spread optimism, confidence and courage! You could put a sign again today, it will not infect you at this distance, you can rely on it, Mrs Minister. [[Abg. Hafenecker:...has also taken up mask yesterday!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Which should be clear in principle – with the Greens I have never assumed that it is, but at the ÖVP –: [[Abg. Obernoster: Did you sleep badly today?]] Of course, jobs create the economy. [[Abg. Haubner: Thank God!]] If I constantly break up the economy – there are some of the Economic Union – then unemployment cannot sink either. You know this very well and you know the desperation of entrepreneurs outside. 90 percent of the companies in Austria are micro-enterprises with up to ten employees. She's been destroying her all the time since spring. Please, dear ÖVP, I appeal to your conscience, implement the classification, change your system, talk to German Chancellor Kurz – he is an eternal student who won't understand it – because economy creates jobs, and you must finally support the entrepreneurs! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Create possibilities that the consumption will come back into being, that you can also shop at companies, otherwise can and will not be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] The social network still holds, we spend billions, but it still remains. If you pay it, you'll see it in the next few years. You have already provided a first insight this week: These are especially the service providers who have worked for 45 years. They're the first ones to pay this back. We have always said that the social network can only be maintained if it is financed by the skilled and the diligent. There is, unfortunately, a very bad development. Finally, I would like to make one more motion for a resolution. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52559	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Pakolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52583	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is often claimed that the youth does not respect the measures concerning Corona at all. I would like to reject this with all clarity, because there are many young people who are progressing with a positive example and who are also showing what cohesion of all generations means in our society. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's what the connoisseur said!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, it is not easy to give up on many things – meeting friends, celebrating parties – especially in the best time of life. Maturabälle, graduation celebrations, disarmament and sponsorships, all this is not possible this time, many of which unfortunately cannot be recovered for a whole generation either. But we all have to take this pandemic seriously, if not because of our own health, then we think at least of the many nurses, the doctors who are particularly required in these months and who in hospitals and hospitals do incredible. In this thanks I would also like to include all employees in the authorities and crisis staff. Thank you very much, you are doing great things at this time! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Unfortunately, the health consequences of Corona are not the only ones for my generation, the youth is almost triple corona loser. First in education: For the second time already, we have had to move the teaching in schools and universities completely to the network. This is a huge challenge for everyone involved, for teachers, parents and students, absolutely no question. Secondly, on the subject of work: Many are starting to work and the current situation on the labour market is particularly challenging for young people – short-term work, unemployment, cancelled job promises and holiday internships. In the Youth Employment Task Force, pressure is being put on to give young people a perspective, especially our apprentices. Thirdly, why we're threefold corona loser: Who's to pay for all this? - We too, the coming generations. We'll probably get the bill later. That is precisely why it must be in all our interest that we quickly get out of this crisis, that we will soon be experiencing an economic upturn. The roof should be covered when the sun shines. In recent years, we have covered this roof under Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and have not made any new debts in an economically sunny time. We have renovated our roof, developed it well and made it safe. So Austria has good budgetary base conditions. Now, where it storms and rains, keep our roof and offers us protection. 2020 is certainly not a solar year for us. We continue to deal responsibly with taxpayers' money, which is also the basis for why we can help better in this crisis than some other countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With many packages, we boost the economy, boost the economy, support workers, families and businesses in this exceptional situation and prefer planned tax reliefs we have set in the government programme in this crisis because it is necessary. However, the largest economic package, which has already been mentioned, can be difficult to count on in the budget. The largest economic package has everyone in hand. Make your supplies, buy your Christmas gifts from regional companies. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes where?]] – Many offer an online shop in times like this. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is everything locked!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – It doesn’t always have to be Amazon and Co. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: At Zalando, or where should I buy it?]] This awareness of regional products, of regional food, is hopefully one of the positive consequences of this corona crisis, and it will hopefully take us much longer. [[call to the FPÖ]] Thank God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not only good for the environment, it also strengthens our economy and therefore countless jobs in the region. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] So perhaps not only their own children are looking forward to the upcoming Christmas, but also the children in other families, if we can secure quite a lot of jobs through regional purchasing. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is not possible, you have locked everything!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52756	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52780	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I don't usually use the addresses of citizens when I get out of here and speak before you. Today, however, I want to do it because it is about the image of the families we are discussing. I was in personal exchange because of the family hard balance with many families and I received an e-mail a few days ago. The subject was: We're out of the air. – The text – I leave the introduction away – then reads: After a brief improvement in the situation, I am now a third time in short work. My next job, which I had to look for in the summer, is now affected by the second lockdown. It's getting harder and harder to get over the rounds. We already save on the food. - Quote. This is the situation in which families are present in a wide range of areas. Looking at income, it is noted that almost 75 percent of family income is between EUR 1 250 and EUR 3 700. This is about income of a family with two adults and on average 1.6 children! These families have not always been economically beaten from home, but they have come into a situation that was surprising for everyone, and they have to bear their normal living costs. You may have to pay the credit repayment rate, the leasing rate for the car, and maybe something for the school. When I read this e-mail and saw the 2021 budget, I wondered: Does this budget, which you present to us for 2021, help those people who, as Members of Parliament, are sending us such emails today? – I am deeply convinced that this is not the case. This is not the case, because all these concrete families are now beginning to save on the food in the second lockdown, and the question is where they will have to save in the third lockdown. Does it help these families if you issue flat-rate payments across the entire population costing hundreds of millions of euros? – I am deeply convinced that these measures do not sufficiently help these families. Others may not need this money and, out of solidarity, would also be inclined to give up on it. The second question, however, is: Do we have sufficient resources for precisely those families that are now affected? – No, because, in turn, it is so that due to the other measures, it is not possible to obtain sufficient money. This is my first point, Mrs Aschbacher: There is a lack of a targeted measure for the families, which can no longer be found in the second lockdown. There's too little information there, there's too little support there. They have provided for a family hard balance for three months. There you can almost recover this amount, which is missing in the short work. But if you do two or three lockdowns if you lock up companies for months, then three months are not enough. The measures you present as a tool today are those that you considered in April, and that is clearly too little. If you look at the crisis in general, you realize it won't be easier. Family advisory services, which now definitely have more work in this crisis than ever – since children and adults are at home at least 24 hours a day and sometimes get into emotional conflicts – say that they themselves need 15 million euros in a non-crisis year. As Minister, you promised in May that you will work to ensure that these EUR 15 million will come. They didn't come, instead, there was only 12.5 million euros. In other words, in 2021, family counsellors do not even get the money they need for a non-crisis year, and if more consultation is now taking place online, that is simply not enough. You said the schools were open. But now, if I think about these families that have to fight again, I have to say: It's not helpful if they don't know on Monday in the morning: Is the school quite open on Tuesday? Is the child being taught? Is it better for the child, so that it may also have a really strong future that I leave it at home, or is it better that I bring it to school, where it also sees its school friends? The parents couldn't answer that on Tuesday in the morning. Of course, this is purely due to the competence of Minister Fässmann, but as a family minister, you should get up in the early morning every day and promote massively for that there is a clear answer and that children, whether they are taken to school or at home, always get the best education. It also does nothing if you, at the same time, continue to keep in mind the indexing of family benefits for those service providers who come from Eastern and South-East Europe and continue to work for us in the lockdown, for example in the care and retail sectors. We need to find another language, how we deal with families, and in 2021 we need a crisis budget that actually helps those people who feel the most about the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52846	Mrs. Christine Aschbacher has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e52868	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! We are in an absolute exceptional year. The corona virus leaves nothing and no one outside, but swirls around somewhere and affects us in all areas of life, whether in the working world, whether in the family, or in our everyday lives. For example, we sit here with the mouth-nose protection to protect ourselves, but also others. Health development is a top priority. Corona, however, has also triggered a global economic crisis, whose direct effects we also feel very intense – and this has also confirmed to us experts from, for example, the economic research institutes – on the labour market. At our workplaces, the conditions are changing, for example by short-time work or by unemployment created by Corona. To this end, this lockdown also requires a lot of all of us, from everyone and every individual who is concerned. We are all not only affected, but also involved, because it now applies to each and every one. It is important that we all participate here, take part to prevent overload of our health system and secure our reliable health system. It is important not only to maintain the emergency operation, but also to ensure that, when it comes to acute accidents such as accidents, we are adults and our children as best as possible. As Minister of Labour, Family and Youth, it is very important to me to support those people who are currently going to work on a daily basis and are very much required, but also those people who are looking for work. At the same time, however, it is also very important for me to support the many families with their children, young people and grandparents – someone who goes to work in the family, someone may be looking for work, someone is a youth in education and so on. We support them in this challenging period of time through special measures. We as the Federal Government are doing everything we can to best address the consequences of this pandemic or the world economic crisis in order to support as broad and as effectively as possible. It is ensured that 39 billion euros are secured for employment in the forthcoming budget. It is ensured that over 11 billion of them are for active labour market policies and jobs, so that we can secure jobs as best we can, make jobs possible and create them, for example through investment. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Never before have we invested so much resources for employment, and this is now necessary. Let me address concrete measures that we are responding to the current situation. We have made adjustments to the corona short work: All those companies that are now directly affected by the lockdown can now reduce the working time of their employees to 0 percent, so that no employees need to be terminated. Everyone can now come through this lockdown because the corona short work has been adapted for it. I ask you, dear entrepreneurs, apply the corona short work! The employees of the AMS are there more than ever for you. At this point I would like to thank all the employees of the AMS. You do great things, you have been doing for months and even now in this special time! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This year we invested more than €5.2 billion in corona short work and thus secured over 1.3 million jobs at peak times. We have also secured 1.5 billion euros in the budget for the coming year. I can promise you: If there is more need, there will be more resources for it. We have agreed on this in the Federal Government, because every job we can secure with the corona short work is an important one. You can count on our support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To our second central programme in the crisis: There is a job offensive and where it makes sense where we can support people with it, regional work foundations. In the Board of Directors, the social partners also agreed and agreed. I am very grateful for the constructive cooperation, as far as the corona short work, but especially the job offensive, is concerned, because we ensure that, with the 700 million euros in the next one to two years, we can train and train more than 116 000 people, where the jobs are waiting for them, where there are job opportunities, that is, job opportunities, and at the same time in the future sectors. Now, at this particular time, it is about continuing education and training as well as possible. That is why I am proud that we have managed to change over three quarters of these concrete training courses to digital, and that those who need to continue working on the ground, for example in the workshops, will continue to comply with the strictest health and hygiene regulations. For this a great thank you to all the many carriers and partners of the AMS who take along and now ensure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are thus investing directly in the people we are going to need as tomorrow's workforce, for example throughout the Mint area, where we still have a shortage of skilled workers, throughout the digital sector, throughout the health and care sector, but also in the sustainability field, in terms of renewable energy and so on. This is what we have focused on and thus ensure that all those who want to do a training and are willing to take part can benefit from it. In addition, with an educational bonus of 180 euros per month, we make sure that you get through the rounds as well as financially as possible in the time of education and training. Nevertheless, our top priority is that we bring people into employment as quickly as possible. Accordingly, there is also a need for a different mix of measures in addition to these two central programmes, namely for different target groups and for different areas of support. In order to ensure that this is possible, I have made sure that the AMS is equipped and that a total of 500 planning sites are secured for this year, so that the employees also have the Focus can follow. There has been an intensive increase, also with support from where there is already expertise, e.g. the employees from the Federal Accounting Agency, who have already supported intensively in the processing and accounting of the short work. We also secured 25 million euros per year in the budget by 2023. At the same time, there is also support programmes, such as the new start bonus, for if it is not possible to pursue full-time employment, it is better for people to pursue part-time employment and get support through a payment to pay off to go to work. For this purpose, the restart bonus is used. If, on account of the economic situation, more employment is possible, these employees should, of course, be taken over into full employment. As a third point, we have ensured the support of older people seeking work. We have made 900 million euros available in the budget for this. In addition, we have guaranteed more than 105 million euros for those who have been unemployed for a long time. For women too, at 3.5 percent in the budget, we have a lot disproportionately with additional programmes or increases such as FIT, women in technology, or also the job-navi for young mothers, who also ensure child care so that we can support the young mothers and overall women in the labour market as best we can. Total The area of our young people is a special matter of my heart. In the early summer, we set up the Youth Employment Task Force and, together with the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Education, ensured that we have no apprenticeship gap in order to secure training places for young people. We have created more than 12,000 additional apprenticeships, on the one hand with the apprenticeship bonus, and on the other hand, where necessary, we have also increased the over-company apprenticeships on the spot. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Many of the working people, who are now particularly demanding, I would also like to thank very much those who are now mainly back in the home office and under the circumstances that are different in everyone's day-to-day activities, are families – families with children, families with young people – who have been doing outstanding things for months. We too are parents, we are children of our parents, we are uncles and aunts, and some of us in the Federal Government are also grandparents. That is, we know the concerns and fears of the people and are in conversation with many families, unless it is with children, unless it is with working parents, for whom it is always a balancing act and which is now more urgent than ever needed support. We support them as well as it is possible to get through this time. We all thought differently about our family life in 2020, and now we are in the middle of this crisis. For us too, it is necessary for each and every one of us to take part and support and stick to the measures. My special thanks to the families, the parents, grandparents, young people and children, because, dear families, you are the backbone of our society, and we support you. Accordingly, we have made comprehensive resources available so that we can improve the compatibility of family and work. As a central measure to offset the income losses that have often arisen indebtedness – through the corona pandemic, we are in a world economic crisis, with income losses – we have set up the Family Hard Fund. In this way we were able to Support 66 000 families with around 88 million euros, each with an average sum of 1 300 euros. In these challenging times, special measures continue to be needed. That's why we secured an additional 50 million euros for 2021 in the Family Hard Fund. This will allow us to continue to support over 40 000 families who need it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Of course, we need more, namely a broad mix of measures for our families. With regard to the special care period I would like to address as the first point, we have agreed in the Federal Government, but above all together with the social partners, that where there are school closures where kindergartens are closed because, for example, the educators themselves are affected by the corona virus or there are quarantine cases, as we have already heard today, the legal claim for all working parents in a flexible way is guaranteed to 100 percent each four weeks in total until the end of the school year 2021. You can rely on that. And employers also receive 100 percent refund instead of 50 percent. Wherever possible and necessary, employers can agree directly with the parents employed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] This option was particularly important to me because it is possible in many cases and is implemented in practice. For this purpose, the funding to employers instead of 50 percent is 100 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I don't want to go into the details because we've heard a lot about it. The schools are open, childcare with learning support is ensured. We have developed this experience from the first lockdown for this phase now in autumn so that the children are supported especially in a familiar, reasonable environment. That's very important. However, if the school cannot be opened, 100 percent of the legal claim applies. I am in close cooperation with our Minister of Education, who ensures that in schools, kindergartens and kindergarten facilities – as the federal states are very constructive in their cooperation – childcare with learning support is guaranteed. If there are individual cases in this respect, as I have already heard, the Minister of Education and his team is happy to be available. There is close cooperation and coordination in this area. We have also provided for further measures in the budget for families and also for the overlapping areas, for example in the school book budget, an increase of EUR 12 million to over EUR 124 million, so that we can support the digital school books and the Digi4School platform in particular, because it is now necessary. In addition, we have also achieved an increase in the budget for school-free travel by EUR 12 million in order to increase the number of line and opportunity traffic to more than EUR 488 million. But now it is of particular importance that we do not abandon the families – on the one hand, we support them financially, but above all emotionally in this crisis. I am very grateful to all the advisory bodies for which I may be responsible, such as the family advisory services, which have immediately changed to digital – and that already to more than 80 percent – so that families can contact a consultancy office at any time. Likewise, our young people can reach out to the listener, pick 147 – we have heard it recently – to get advice from the Council on wire. On parental education.at, families can seek support, whether it be creative at home care options, or crisis support, advice. For our young people, there is also the youth portal with the youth reporters who, in part, put our press conferences into a wording, so to speak, which is better accessible to young people. I am also grateful to everyone in this area that they are now especially there for our families in this country. We are in an extraordinary time, and exceptional times require extraordinary measures that need an extraordinary budget. Accordingly, this is a budget of the crisis with which we support, on the one hand, people affected and at the same time directly invest in people. We secure jobs, we enable jobs and we create jobs through investment. At the same time, we support the backbone of our society, our families with the many children and young people who so discipline themselves on the measures and set up the masks when they come into contact, but who also now do great things again – each and every one of you. We want to support them as much as possible, so that, despite the physical distance we have, we now keep together emotionally and socially intensively. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Only in this way can we deal with the crisis together and come out of this time with strong and courageous courage. Despite the circumstances, let me summarize: Let's keep our courage and confidence! We do not know when this time will be precise, but we know for sure that we will come through this health crisis and overcome it. Then we need you more than ever, because together, I am deeply convinced of that, we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53050	The next speaker is Mr Alexander Melchior. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53074	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard a few keywords: Homeschooling, Distancelearning, Home Office, all this, and I can tell you: I just came from a 20-day quarantine. I'm four times a family father, so everyone can imagine how it goes at home. I've experienced making home office, a video conference, and the two-year-old scratches me over the keyboard and overturns the full coffee cup. You can be sure I've eaten several hundred pestilin pizzas, and if I see another uno card, it's really all out. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But you can also be sure, it is a really difficult time for many families and a great challenge to master it. In addition, many families come next to the questions: How do I care for my child?, How does the health crisis continue?, just questions like: Will I have another job? Will I be able to keep my business open? How's that going? How can I get my family? – These questions require answers, and action is needed. [[Abg. Smoking: You don't have them!]] That is why, Mr Commissioner, I am very happy and grateful and I would like to take two measures which I am deeply convinced that they really help and benefit people. The first question has already been raised: the model of short work. It is truly one of the best models in the world that can be achieved by ensuring that 1.3 million jobs have been secured. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] It is also now also the case that companies using economic assistance must ensure that they keep their employees. Most companies want to do this, but they also want to know their employees securely. That is why it is good that up to 90 percent of the net salary will continue to be paid. In addition, we have a situation in the families, which is very difficult, very tense for many. This leads me to another measure that I think is very effective, and that is the Family Hard Fund. Through these families can receive support of up to 1,200 euros per month depending on household and family size. Nearly 70,000 families have already made use of this, and they have been given support that they really need. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have a total of EUR 150 million for the measure, and we also need the money to support families through this difficult time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, an appeal, which reads: I know – Karl Nehammer has put it to the fore in the press conference – the corona virus and the phase in which we are all are getting started. It's hardly any longer what we're experiencing. My big request is: Let us all stay together, let us stop and see that we come through this crisis in the best possible way possible! Then, I'm convinced that next year will be a good year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53136	The next speaker was Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53157	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We are in the biggest crisis the Austrian labour market has ever experienced, and fortunately – and perhaps God’s too – we can rely on experiences, methods and measures from the past. One of these measures, which has been mentioned many times, is the short work which has proved to be a helpful measure again this year. We have, of course, had to use it to an extent that it was never planned. Short work was an instrument that we knew mainly in industry, which has now been extended to a wide range of sectors of the economy. Of course you also notice, it may not always fit all together, but, I think, it has done a great deal of good. I think it is also important – I have been able to experience it myself, because I am probably the honourable Member with the most experience with short work – to use this time. Short-time work with skills is an essential asset in making use of this crisis to prepare itself, so to speak, so to speak, to get out of the starting blocks. That is why it is also good that there will be this possibility in the next phase. Yes, there will be a lot of funds for a foundation. I come from a region where we are industrially experienced. Mrs. Minister, we've had our own foundation for 20 years. We finance them in solidarity, so that the colleagues who need or want to re-training can also have the opportunity. My experience on such topics is: It's not enough for you to just take the money and say, There you are, but it really needs support, and that's a lot of work. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] After the great economic crisis, we had to experience when we got through this economic crisis well, when these funds also seized that we had a socket unemployment which was significantly higher than before. We have put in place many measures to combat it. That's a laborious fight, so it's just so important that you actively lead this fight. You said you now have 500 more people in the AMS. – Mrs Minister, there are 350 more, because only a few have not been dismantled. However, we have significantly more people who are now in unemployment, we have significantly more companies demanding short-term work, and we now also want to look after these people better with Foundation models. At the end of the day, this will not be done with the available resources and capacities. Of course, it's also a nice picture to say: over-company training – we want to become more flexible, the contracts are now only making them for a year. – Mrs Minister, from your point of view, it is of course good that you can control and say: I have less need!, but quite honestly: Qualified training staff don't exist in a box I open, and I say: Now you come out, I'll make people out for a year, and if I don't need you anymore, I'll put you back in the box! This requires safety, planning, so that qualified training can take place, as long-term models are needed, and they are required. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we have said that we do not leave one behind in this crisis, so I should also like to make the following request here: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let us not leave anyone behind in this crisis! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53305	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53334	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can return to the chapter Family and Youth. The budget item contains €7.59 billion. I can only make two points: 3.5 billion euros for family allowances, 1.2 billion euros for child care. This shows that a total of 89 percent go towards transfers. An important aspect of this year's Corona Family Hard-Equation Fund is that 67 000 families have already received support of an average of EUR 1 300, i.e. a very positive issue. We are, I believe, all of us agree that the corona pandemic and the present situation for families are a huge challenge. Personally, I sometimes ask myself whether we can help families if the opposition only has problems, but has no solutions. We work together on solutions, and of course it is only in joint work that the challenges for all who are affected are addressed accordingly. Speaking of Corona and how to see it: I think you can say calmly and soberly: The ÖVP, both government parties and the government have always clearly followed a line from the very beginning and have fought the pandemic, while other parties, especially – because Mr Amesbauer looks at me in this way – the FPÖ, or at least parts of it, are already quite impoverished: That's just something like a bit of a flu, it's not tragic anyway, nothing happens. People now know that this is anything but a flu, and you don't just need to look at the numbers. All of them should be aware of their responsibilities. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] What is it about in politics? – In the fight against pandemic, it is ultimately about standing through and finding an equal between health and economics – both are important – and they do not play against each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] That, I think, is the crucial point. Many people participate – not because they say now, that's all so great and great, no, but because they see that it's necessary. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because they are afraid of draconic punishments!]] We must be aware of this responsibility. Mr Amesbauer, yesterday, during the speech by Mr Werner Saxinger, who is a doctor and described what it looks like at an intensive care unit in a hospital: Panic!, called in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Do you know what the folk mouth says about that? – A little harshly expressed: No herb has grown against stupidity! A little politely formulated: Whoever the Lord has not given, let him not ask!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53397	Mr Prince, we do not quote things that violate the dignity of the house, even when it comes to the mouth of the people or other quotations. I ask you to be moderate in terms of expression. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think you're gonna do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53418	I'll make an effort. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] As Mrs Belakovich has just made an interlocutory call, I wanted to see the audience and Watchers say: If you get the last half, three-quarters of an hour maybe now has not had time to watch, in the TV library of the ORF you can watch it for a week. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Responsibility showed the speech of Mr Pakcolm, something else was her speech. You can only really recommend to the population to look at that. My request is quite simple that one should look beyond the party boundaries if possible. I know that the location determines the position, but maybe we're trying to get the look for the whole thing. And when we talk about the chapter Family: Not only do we protect ourselves, we also protect what we like, what we love, and these are our families.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53472	Next speaker: Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53497	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have been in a huge crisis for nine months now, and the effects have hit the people in Austria hard. Especially in difficult times like this, it is important to appreciate families and confirm the awareness for the families. Many parents have lost their job or have to worry about their job. Many parents are in short work and do not know how to proceed. Especially for families, for parents who have little income, who have a small income that really does not deserve much, this family hard fund is just a drop on the hot stone. At first it really hopped at the payouts: Many families have had to wait weeks to months until they were financially supported. I hope, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have got this under control and in the future the disbursement will be made more quickly. This fund will be increased by 50 million euros, which is also necessary and correct, because extremely high unemployment is by far the highest in the Second Republic and will also increase in the next few months. We know that this is always said by the experts. It is precisely this high level of unemployment that creates a huge hole in our family compensation fund, which pays for family support and child care, and also maintenance advance payments are financed by this fund. Two thirds of what I have just mentioned is paid out of the family budget. Payments for the maintenance advance will be budgeted at 137.7 million euros. Mrs Family Minister, we have already had that in the last budget. Nothing has changed at all, and you also know quite well that this sum cannot hold that this is far too little that this has been budgeted far too little, because the unemployment caused by the crisis will result in considerably less repayments of maintenance advances, and that is why a huge hole is created. Mrs Bundesminister, however, I would like to come to a subject where you have always been comforting me in the committees for a long time, and this is the double residence. I know you're telling me again, that has nothing to do with your ministry, that is being treated by your colleague in the Ministry of Justice. There is a working group there for three years now. When I remember that there has been the common care since 2011 – nine years, almost ten years; already at that time the double residence would have been almost implemented and enshrined in the law – but it has been blocked again, and the courage and enforcement of the ÖVP have once again failed. The double residence has something to do with family: It concerns parents and it concerns the well-being of children, and in the present crisis, double residence would be important. It would also bring many benefits to parents and their children; especially now in the lockdown, parents feel how difficult it is to put work and childcare under one hat, and this very double residence would be for the benefit of parents and children in our country and would contribute great things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53542	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53566	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and dear sisters at home! 376,000 people are unemployed, 170 000 are in short-term employment, 122,000 of whom are long-term unemployed. [[Abg. Worm:...thousand!]] 40 000 people have found work again in the last month. That is why I would like to say thank you for the fact that, despite the crisis, entrepreneurs employ people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There are 64 700 open jobs in Austria, so they would also be found for people who would be willing to work. I would like to say to Mr Muchitsch, who is not in the hall at the moment, but in principle to the SPÖ, which also concerns colleague Heinisch-Hosek: Your side is reproached that the government is only doing something for entrepreneurs. I would like to say here that entrepreneurs create jobs in Austria, and they need the support that they can obtain and create jobs at the moment. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bürstmayr.]] I would also like to say something at the special care period: We have made it quite clear that parents may stay at home when schools are closed – for whatever reason. But what do we do with people who need care? Should all the people who work in the trade stay at home? Then how does the supply work? That would be my question. Do we then leave the old people in the old homes in their misery? People could no longer go shopping either, because there would be no more employees in the trade. [[Abg. Worm: The trade is closed! Trade's closed!]] On behalf of Mr Worm: Dear colleague Worm, dear FPÖ, your group, always says: It's just a flu!, from the beginning, and that's just not true! [[Abg. Worm: Who says that? Who says that?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] The virus was not created by this government either, but it is a global crisis, this virus is present worldwide. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] - You said that. [[Abg. Belakovich: No one said that...!]] It is true that this government is trying everything to survive the health crisis as well as the economic crisis in such a way that we all get out of this crisis, and I think that is the way we should go. [[Abg. Loacker: Look what else...!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53682	Mr Josef Schellhorn, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53707	Madam President. Minister! I don't know if I may have heard your speech, but I've just looked at it again: If I interpret you correctly, you have said that you are spending 39 billion euros on employment – in the UG 20 I find 12 billion euros. Of course, there can be parallels between you and the Minister of Finance, who has a bit of a problem with the zeros by having a bit of problems with the figures. That is why I would like to make it clear to myself. In fact, 12 billion for employment is also the number in the budget, and this would obviously be a bit less than the 39 billion you have spoken about. But there are quite other points that I would like to highlight, and the first point concerns the apprentices. If we look at the average in the 10-year comparison, then 131,000 apprentices have minimized to 109 000, and I believe that the number will go further down. This has always been a topic: If you need skilled workers, you also have to set different standards, then you finally have to address this topic of education, for teaching professions, for professionals. I also believe that it is important – you will not yet know my approaches, but many ÖVPs know them – that the middle maturity should be dealt with urgently, for it is not reasonable or in fact impossible for 14-year-olds to make their own decision today whether they are making a teaching. Most parents naturally want them to do something different, a matura, a higher education school. I believe that the middle maturity and decision-making capacity of young people must also be handed over to those who have to make this decision, namely to those interested in teaching professions themselves. To change the cycle from nine compulsory school years to twelve compulsory school years would also in the long run address the shortage of skilled workers. The dynamic market is also particularly affected when it comes to apprentices, as other systems are needed. Of course, it also needs reliability, flexibility, performance and training – skills, skills, skills. You have to deal with it accordingly. The second point is that in the government programme – and I think you know the government programme – you have determined to relieve the work factor. I believe that reducing the labour factor is the key to creating more employment. I just need to look at the area of tourism: Winter tourism will be spectacular, which is spectacularly negative. We usually have 240 000 employees in tourism, only this year will the number of unemployed people in this area increase dramatically and the number of jobs in tourism will decrease dramatically. I think that reducing the labour factor is the highest ceiling, but you can't find anything in your budget, and that's actually the worst thing about it. Even expert Johannes Kopf says that short-time work cannot be a permanent solution, but will help to overcome certain crises in the short term – only this crisis will last for more than seven or eight months, and it will last much, much longer, that is, until at least springtime. I therefore believe that the only thing that can be seen as a bowl or as a screwdriver is: Relieve work factor. Employees need to earn more and cost less. More net, less gross, this is the key to employment and the key to consumption, but I find nothing in the budget for it. Finally, let me say: Especially in the present time, a program for the home office is missing. Where is it? In fact, I need a clear regulation. They announced it by March 2021 – hopefully the crisis is on the verge – but it is not yet available. Why not? I wonder, Where's the difficulty? That doesn't seem to be a rocket science. It really does not seem to be a rocket science, to work together with the social partners and to work on a solution in this regard. It's about the parents, it's about the employees. The most important thing is that, even if they are at home, they have a clear rule – that calls for reliability! My colleague, Mr Prince, has said that the opposition just screams, but does not bring a solution. – Mr. Prince, is the Middle Mature not a proposal? Is the Home Office not a proposal? Is the labour factor not a proposal to relieve work? . We are constantly making proposals, but you are rejecting them, just like the economic package that we have proposed, which is very essential for the next five months, because it is really all about everything, because it is not just about a few hoteliers and a few hosts. As Mrs Köstinger said yesterday, this is about a carpenter, about an installer and everything. Why are you refusing all this, Mr. Prince? These are proposals from the opposition. From your point of view, they are not even unreasonable, but they must be opposed to the fact that one has party-political interests – and not because it concerns the well-being of these workers, as well as the entrepreneurs. You think it's 30. November is over with the lockdown, and then it's going to be some sort of a deal – then maybe we'll do some erratic thing again with some revenue, but that's not how it's done. This crisis in the labour market and the entrepreneurial market takes much longer than you can imagine, and you have not put any measures on the table. The best example is the Home Office scheme, which comes at the earliest in March.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53762	Mr Christian Hafenecker spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53786	Mrs Kirchbaumer, I admit that I do not normally pay attention exactly to what you are saying, because I also have other things to do, but I still want to report on an actual correction because what you said earlier shows exactly the strategy of the EIA. In fact, they claim complete falsehoods here: You said the FPÖ constantly claimed that Covid-19 was just like a flu. Mrs. Kirchbaumer, I am actually correcting: The FPÖ has never – and I expressly say: never – denied that there is this disease Covid-19. What we always criticize – perhaps you should be a little more careful – are the measures you are taking. We criticize this because we think it is completely wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] If you make the Connex to the flu, Mrs Colleague, I would like to say another word at the end of my actual correction: Hit Get the Euromomo page on! This is the European Union's mortality statistics. Compare the 2017/18 figures – a flu wave in Europe has raged – with the figures from now on! They will insist that mortality is now clearly below the figures of 2017/18 It's up to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] If you then continue education - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53835	Mr President, this has been a somewhat long correction of the situation, which is why I have now interrupted you. [[Abg. Worm: Has still gone!]] The next speaker is Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e53882	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I have done today that, although I have written a very long list of the anti-absorbing politicians on the subject of work, on which points I am not of their opinion, which I do not wish to criticize. [[Abg. Belakovich: To stay real!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You haven't said thank you yet!]] I just hope you've been watching our minister's statement, because it was all inside that you've always said that this and that are missing and we haven't done this and that. [[Abg. Belakovich: Thank you!]] I would even like to praise Mr Wurm today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] They said: The economy creates jobs. I'll give you 100 percent. [[Abg. Hafenecker: They want us people again...!]] Now I have to say quite honestly: We know what is going on in the labour market. We know we have the most severe economic crisis for many decades. We know that we have more than 70 000 people in unemployment than in the comparison period 2019, and we know that we have the short-term work scheme to protect ourselves from even higher unemployment. [[Abg. Kassinger: Avoid the statistics!]] This short work arrangement will also help us in the second lockdown, we have already seen that in the first lockdown. [[Abg. Belakovich: In the third also!]] When you look at the curves, you realize that this has worked perfectly. Finally, we had very few people in short work, but that also helps us now. The 2021 budget, which is set up with 1.5 billion euros for this, helps us to protect people from unemployment and to avoid redundancies and also to give the businesses the security that, when this ghost is hopefully over with the corona virus, the work will start again, finally people will be able to work again in their usual activity and thus also contribute to the upturn. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There are amazingly many aids that have all been mentioned. One thing I would like to say: The focus should be on this – that is particularly important to me – that we bring people back to work and get them out of unemployment, because work – we all know – is meaningful and good for our soul and our spirit. I think it's not only about the income regulation, but also about social life, so that we can feel comfortable. A positive report – I almost didn't believe this, but today I asked for an extra request from the IHS, Professor Kocher: You probably won't believe it, but the aid actually arrived, because we have a loss of income of about 1 to 2 percent in this year. This confirms that the help has arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54023	The next speaker is Mrs Petra Oberrauner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54044	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectator at home! I found a bright article in a daily newspaper. It says – I quote –: "Because of the lockdown, the situation on the labour market is now getting worse: In Austria, some 613 600 people are unemployed or in short-time work, and the figures continue to rise. Policy appeals to those affected – when the upturn comes in 2021, they are needed again.” It's a witness to poverty. We are experiencing the largest economic and labour market crisis in the Second Republic. By Christmas, it is likely that 500 000 people will be unemployed – a bad fate for each person concerned, the life partners, the family and the children. This government has left for these people persisting parallels and promises of salvation: Christmas, as it used to be. That's all I can say: it's probably not. Anxiety, financial bottlenecks, fear of the future, and a little needed strength to offer children a Christmas in relative normality are more likely to come. In any case, the budget is not an answer to the crisis, it lacks perspective and financial impact. It abandons workers and the daily growing number of innocent unemployed people. For example, special assistance from the Corona Labor Foundation is limited to the next two years, after which the AMS is expected to be rapidly saved, although the massive unemployment can never be reduced until then. Moreover, the budget figures mean nothing more than that, despite the enormous labour market crisis in relation to the number of unemployed, the government now wants to use less money for labour market promotion than in the high economy. There is a lack of resources to offset the loss of income of non-indebted persons in unemployment. Mr Pöttinger, I would like to talk to you about: “The economy creates jobs,” says. The economy is already creating jobs, but there is no economy without employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Without the income of these people they spend on the products you produce, there will be no economy in the future. I'd like to say: The government really lacks perspective. They push women out of the labour market in the crisis and have nothing left for the development goals of childcare. The special care periods will now be paid with the consent of employers, and in the middle of the crisis, you will be able to quietly and secretly rob the people who have worked hard for society for over 45 years. The budget of this government is an unprecedented monument of incompetence and the lack of empathy for people, apologies to people – I am really excited because I am angry about this kind – which are also in distress because of the flaws of the government. I am excited how and, above all, who will explain to the people who finance the budget with their taxes these consequences of your decisions. Marketing will not be enough for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54101	Next speaker is Mrs Alexandra Tanda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54123	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! As the last speaker of my group, I really want to break a margin for the family budget. It's important. It shall make available the necessary resources. This will enable us to take important family policy measures. As Mr Sieber has said today, we are talking about just under EUR 7.6 billion for the support of families in addressing the challenges in everyday life. Compared to the previous year, some 200 million euros are more involved. Of course, the important benefits such as family allowances, child care, schoolbooks, transfer payments for pension contributions and so on and so on will be budgeted, but this budget will also respond to the effects of the Corona crisis. In particular, families are most affected by this crisis, and in 2020, 665 million euros have already been paid for one-off payments, 117 million euros from the Family Hard Compensation Fund and 20 million euros for the extension of family aid. If you count it together, it is 802 million euros to dispel the worst financial burden on families. We have seen that the money comes to the families: in autumn, in September, 360 euros in addition, together with the regular children's allowance, the school start-up fee, up to 1 100 euros unbureaucratic without a form. What's very important to me is: When I speak of family, I do not speak of the high-gloss images of advertising in print and TV, but I speak of the single mother who may be still working and is constantly scratching at her stress line – I do not consciously, because that is life reality for more than 90 percent of single women, and I know what I am talking about here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This budget takes into account the compatibility of family and profession through the expansion of childcare places, child care payments and the family season bonus for fathers. I am really pleased that there are more and more men – I personally know some – who also use this; the children will thank them when they are grown up. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Prinz and Mr Stögmüller.]] We must never ignore a very important point: Unfortunately, the family is also often a place of violence against women and children, so it is so important that the budget also provides the necessary funds for the expansion of anonymous and free low-rate advisory services for families, for the promotion of parental education, for violence prevention, for parental and child support projects in divorce and separation situations, for family mediations – I also know what I am talking about. After thanking some colleagues for the opposition has become so unpopular, I would like to put it another way: I am grateful, grateful for the achievements that we have all been accustomed to and which we consider to be of course. I also know what I'm talking about. – Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54184	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54213	Madam President. Minister! One could also take today as a headline: The most important and essential element of the state is permanently destroyed by the ÖVP and the Greens, namely the family. Why is that so? – Let’s look at your messages: We're lockin' up! Don't meet anyone! No family celebrations! Youths must not celebrate birthday parties! Small children are to be kept away from each other – something particularly bad! We'll lock you in! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] We're sniffing into your private areas! – Everything that makes up family, everything that makes up our small-structured economy, such as family businesses, everything that is commonly called land-based, destroys them willfully and with a consequence that seeks the same. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You are deprived of the basic right of small businesses and family businesses to generate income. You commit an attack on the hard-working small businesses and family businesses, on all those who stand firmly on the land of this country with two legs, work hard to ensure that family can work at all, all with a heartless and brutally run policy in the sense of large businesses and corporations, which you still pay millions and billions of subsidies. The land-based people, the families, they all want to bring you into a dependency on these corporations. You, the supposedly Christian social, willfully destroy our 2,000 - year - old Christian values. There's no latendlfest, there's no Nikolaus, there's no shining children's eyes at Nikolaus, there's no emotions in the cramp, and what happens at Christmas and comes to us, I don't want to know that yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] [[Abg. Jewellery: The cramp is apparently already daily!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, you do not need to lock up for Christmas, for you have already taken the joy of this festival to the families. The financial losses resulting from unemployment and short-term work alone do not leave them any more financial room for funding so that children can choose and open gifts with bright eyes under the Christian tree. In fact, people are far more afraid of you and your actions than of the virus. The fact that Mr Kurz and Mr Anschober cannot begin with this criticism is clear, because they do not have children, but you, Mrs Aschbacher, have which, and I would expect you to understand more, but you are playing with them surprisingly and disappointingly. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] When I see you sitting there, I see you like the proverbial blonde angel, and I would wish you were a little like an angel on the families now. For example, you could do one thing: With the 1 000 euro voucher, Mr Wurm has made a great request for each Austrian, and this would now help families and, of course, our businesses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This year you have brought so many people to the brink of despair as no government has done before, so that would be the minimum. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Unfortunately, the Freedom Party cannot change this at the moment due to the current majority relations, but one thing we can do: We can lend all the desperate ones – the small entrepreneurs, the hard-working hackers, our families, our young people and the sad children – our ear and a shoulder to lean on and we can tell their stories, here at the square of free speech, to make their voices sound here, and we will do so as long as the freezer chancellor with his shaky smell of the opinional dictatorship is in power.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54299	Next speaker: Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54320	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It is good and right that we talk about this subject complex in detail today, along with all the challenges for families and, of course, for the children concerned. But just as violence not only affects women, but in principle vulnerable groups, which are often pushed to the brink of society and have to fight with Hatespech and Hatecrime, family does not always consist of a man capable of witness and a woman capable of being treated. Family is known where love reigns, family is where people take responsibility for each other and care for each other, and family is also where children and young people experience acceptance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Families – the colleague said – are actually not comparable to high-gloss publications. But they are definitely more diverse than some people here probably want to see in space. Patchwork families, single parents or rainbow families are, as we know, reality – politics is always lagging behind. In recent years, there have been many progress, but they have not been set by politics, but largely fought by those concerned or forced by court rulings,for example, the opening of medically supported reproduction 2015, the possibility of adoption for same-sex couples in 2016, or that such couples may become nurse parents in all the federal states of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I don't know if you know: This allowed even until 2017 time for Lower Austria. Children's rights keyword: All studies conclude that children are not worse if they are born in other than majority family forms not only but also growing up. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you have anything to say to the budget?]] [[Call and call of MEPs Stögmüller and Belakovich]] You need, that's very important, referees and a good embedding. It is always a matter of ensuring that the rights of all family forms, in which case also of rainbow families, are guaranteed by politics, so that the children are not affected by the stigmatization of the parents themselves. We need to create the framework conditions for this, there are still a few homeworks to be done. For example, in general bourgeois code simply forgot to mention lesbian couples. There is still only the mention of the registered partner. As a result – and I know a lot of women and couples who are affected by it – this means that absurdly these wives must first pass through a lengthy parental recognition for their child and the care must also be requested extra. We need to change that! This does not hurt anyone, except the children concerned, who feel that their parents are still being harassed here in Austria in 2020. In this sense and also in view of the tomorrow day of children's rights: It is time to complete these horrors and create legal certainty for all families in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54388	The next speaker was Mrs Petra Wimmerzus. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54413	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! How are the families in Austria doing? – They are very worried and face new challenges and enormous burdens every day since the beginning of the Corona crisis. A very recent Imas study says that 34 percent of families fear a deterioration in their financial situation, 31 percent worry about not being able to cope with the compatibility of family, profession and the required tasks of the school – and these are only two figures that prove what large loads families have had to handle since April. This load is strengthened now especially by the current lockdown. A consequence of this continuous load is also evident in an increased turnaround in the family advisory services. It is, therefore, very disappointing for the family advisory services that the budget will not be increased again and they will have the same financial resources. More advice on the psychosocial health of our families will have to be given. Another comment on the special care period: Mrs. Minister, you have mentioned in your speech that it is possible to take special care time if employers and employees agree on it – and that is a good thing. They have also said that this will cost employers 100 percent – and this is also good and important for employers to have a motivation to enter into this agreement – but unfortunately this claim is not in the law. Will you change this to ensure legal certainty? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the budget is also disappointing in the area of childcare. There are no options for the important area of childcare. The substantial increase in the target grant to the countries under the 15a agreement announced in the government programme is not reflected in the budget. This lacks the financial provision for the qualitative and quantitative expansion of the so necessary childcare. Mrs. Minister, the fact that you even assume a declining care rate in childcare facilities in your objectives of action is completely incomprehensible. This decline is justified by the assumption that there is a decrease in parents' employment due to the corona crisis. I think that's very cynical and the completely wrong signal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This reduces the employment opportunities for parents, especially for women, and it reduces educational opportunities for children – and especially in times of high unemployment, it takes the safety of good and reliable comprehensive childcare in order to be able to take on a job. In addition to all these requirements as a basic prerequisite for parental professional activity, childcare facilities are important educational institutions: They lay the foundation for the development of our children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is also recognised by the social partners: ÖGB, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Workers, Industrial Association and the Federal Farmers have a common paper designed to lay a common foundation for childcare. This shoulder closure is an important step. Everyone agreed that they want the best kindergarten always and everywhere and for all children. We support this common approach and therefore I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we support our families as much as possible! Voices It is an important foundation for you to make a request to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54553	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54577	Madam President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I can put this back here. [[The speaker puts a table entitled “Children have rights! ” on the speaker’s desk.]] Tomorrow we celebrate the day of children's rights, that has already been mentioned. But why do we do that? ==References== In November 1998, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted by the United Nations and ratified in most countries except the United States. Nevertheless, many children are still affected by poverty, violence, or have no or only poor access to education, but also to health and medical care. In Austria, children are also affected. We must not simply watch this, but we must be even more rigorous at national and international level in relation to children's rights. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Last year we all have the 30th together. The birthday of the Convention on Children's Rights, which is also in the constitutional rank in Austria, is a big celebration, but we must continue to take care of these rights – they are an important treasure! Again and again they get into the background, being forgotten, are not implemented or observed to 100 percent. Experts have also repeatedly pointed out that in the Corona pandemic, the rights In spite of the measures, children must not be disregarded, they must continue to be safeguarded. The interests of children should not be forgotten in such an exceptional situation, which is very important. Unfortunately, in numerous press conferences of the Federal Government, this has not really been observed. The well-being of the children or the respect for the rights of the children was rarely until in fact a topic, and the UN also criticized Austria again this year. Every five years there is a report, and in these closing observations, as it is so beautiful, there are dozens of points where the Austrian Federal Government is being asked to take measures to ensure that children's rights are respected better, because they are simply not implemented to 100 percent – that's what you have to say. But what did we find disillusioned during the budgetary negotiations? – It won't be much until really anything. It's being evaluated, it's waiting, and that's just too late and too little in this crisis. Around the International Day of Children's Rights, a number of organisations are drawing attention to this issue – today, tomorrow and beyond. It is also up to us to take up this issue with the Member of the National Council, but also with the second Chamber, the Federal Council, on the Landstags, et cetera. It is also up to the Federal Government to raise awareness of this issue even more and to draw attention to the fact that there are children's rights to respect it and we are all responsible for it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] We must not forget: Children have rights! – it is very big again – and we must finally focus on these children’s rights. [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I really ask for a very broad consent so that we can celebrate the day of the children's rights tomorrow as a day of joy and not as a reminder that we forget children's rights that they are pushed into the background. [[Members of the SPÖ hold various coloured tablets with inscriptions such as “Happy Birthday, Children’s Rights!”, “Children have rights!”, “My right to protection during war & flight”, “My right to co-determination”, “My right to education”, “My right to leisure”, “My right to support”, “My right to a healthy life”, “My right to an intact environment”, “My right to protection from violence”, “My right to a family” in height.]] That's why: Please, please, ladies and gentlemen, give us broad consent. Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[12:41]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54758	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Pia Philippa Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54785	Madam President. Dear women ministers! High house! Dear Seers! It is the third day of the budget debate. Extensive days lie behind us, certainly also strenuous days for the spectators. One thing you have to hold: Valid numbers I found in the budget in hardly one area, even close to reality it was not exactly. I think it's incredibly difficult, because time is just a very challenging one, but you just have to be in a crisis like this. A crisis, as Austria is currently experiencing, not only calls for the best minds of a country to be brought to a table in my eyes, but also for a crisis, as the whole world is currently experiencing. I think it is simply not wise to leave human resources, just because there may be another political attitude. I think there's a lot of people here in the high house he's known: In 2016, he withdrew from the office as head of the budget section after he failed to apply for the President of the Court of Auditors – I think there was nothing but a political agreement behind it, and it was actually a surprise for many people that he did not become – no more embodied budget, no more know-how when it comes to budget and budget, even in such an exceptional situation, I think. No one would be better able to deliver truly valid, useful figures on this crisis than Gerhard Steger. Before we start to make some kind of political adjudication, I would just like to say the following very briefly: He was working under black ministers, he was under a blue minister and under a red one, so one could say it's already a It's a mix. Who still isn't enough: He's in the private sector now. I think in a crisis one can show so much size that you say: Okay, we can perhaps consider that to be non-polic or impartial – unpolitical – it will never be, but impartial. A crisis requires and demands over-participal thinking. No crisis and no pandemic can get a political mesh. Should he have already been added as an expert – I have looked at it, I have unfortunately found nothing to do with it – if so, I find it super, if not, it might be just good – no idea; you don't have to let his opinion flow in – to listen to it at least once. I would like to express my praise to the short work, which is really great in general. It is also a really important building block for job retention. Nevertheless, the unemployment rate is terrifying. I think that even with the many measures taken in the first lockdown, nothing else has happened but to build an artificial dam. I think he's gonna break, I'm pretty sure of it, because now the second lockdown doesn't do anything else. I think that we will have a total labour market crisis or disaster at the latest in January or just in the spring. I recognize a little bit of an economic programme, but this is actually missing in the overall budget. I've heard the words today: Courage and confidence – these are very strong words, and these are words that are absolutely necessary in a crisis. One can also do this with words, which works very well, just not forever and especially not for the entrepreneurs in this country and for the families concerned in that country. They need more motivation, and there must be an economic programme that creates work. I'd like to say something: Families are particularly hard hit by the crisis, because it goes into the field of education. It is also in the field of violence prevention. Many children are affected by poverty or violence. One can also say – I've been looking for sustainable statistics, but unfortunately I haven't found one –: It is also necessary to take a differentiated view of the labour market situation of women and men. In fact, both of them have slipped in at the same time, with a tendency which is already clearly recognizable, namely that women are simply being pushed back into the classic role models – and that simply must not be anymore. In the first lockdown you have said something nice: system-related professions. This was mostly women. So many women have kept their profession, but as many women work part-time and have lost their job. This also applies to families again, because it is a matter of single mothers. Youth is also a big area. I think that with the approach of care mentioned yesterday, the teaching of care as a form of dual training creates really important incentives, which creates what Austria urgently needs, and these are jobs. In fact, this is still a problem, namely the care, because the care itself is becoming more and more a care case. I also hope that you will be oriented to the Swiss model. The Swiss have already done it in 2004, we now. At the moment, there is a considerable burden in the working day in the Corona crisis. It would also have been better to prepare individual professional groups, I think. A good labour market policy, also a good family policy and a policy that really deals with the average Austrian and the average Austrian, is important. Expertise is not gender specific. That's why it's necessary at a table to advise experts, because I don't have the impression that there are experts who live everyday life who bring daily experience. With many regulations, I have the impression that the situation was not considered by women’s glasses or family glasses. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] There is a phrase in English: If you don't sit at the table, it's on the menu. I think most of the Austrians feel betrayed and feel exactly the same way. I believe that this is not a fair way of dealing with this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54860	There is now no more word for the sub-divisions of work and for family and youth. I hereby declare the discussions on these topics ended. – Thank you, Mrs. Minister. [[towards Federal Minister Aschbacher]] [[12:48:50]] UG 34: Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Mobility UG 43: Climate, Environment and Energy
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54903	We now reach subdivisions 34: Innovation and Technology (Research), 41: Mobility and 43: climate, environment and energy. I very much welcome Mrs Eleonore Geessler in our midst. [[Federal Minister Geessler: Federal Minister!]] The debates on these points take place under one. The first speaker is Mr Alois Stöger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e54934	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This federal government gives the opposition little opportunity to praise it here. Today I will praise the Federal Government. I am talking about the budget for mobility, I am talking about transport. This is the only exception in this budget I can say to: There is someone who has tried to put the issues right, and I congratulate them too. You are the praiseworthy exception, you have understood what it is all about. We need strong public transport, and that means we need a strong expansion of the rails. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I am pleased that investments in the rail sector are once again at the level of the Minister for Social Democratic Transport. I am pleased that some short-sighted cuts under Black-Blue have been taken back and I congratulate the presentation of a new ÖBB framework plan. I also congratulate the fact that the pre-examination law has been passed in Parliament – I have always called it one of the prerequisites – that is a good thing. There are a few open points. There are a few areas where we would have expected more commitment. It's about electrification of the train – you can always argue about speed, no question. It is, of course, also a matter of starting the expansion of public transport. One thing is also important to us, namely that we should: the public or regional transport billions can also see and feel in a budget. We didn't find her, but maybe you can explain that. I have one more request to the Minister for Transport: If we want to implement Just Transition – and we have to – then it is not good to take away the pension for workers and employees now, because they will not be there at a process in which you implement Just Transition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I would like to address another issue concerning the climate ticket. This is a part of the budget, and we want to support it. In order to support the climate ticket, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55072	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Geessler, you are, of course, not Eleonore, but Leonore. Excuse me! Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55099	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear people in front of the TV devices, laptops or whatever you watch and listen to us! By the way, I am very pleased that there is always a good quota in this respect and that people are interested in our parliamentaryism. But let me come, in particular, to the questions of research! I have to say that the increase in the budgets for the funding agencies, in particular the FFG, the research funding company, has really achieved something by 77 million euros. They know that this is mainly about applied research, but more and more so – and I very much welcome this – about basic research. There will be 12 million euros for the AWS, and I will take advantage of the opportunity here – although this is not so to say in the area of the Federal Minister – to express my express thanks to the employees of the AWS, who are really doing the NPO support fund in an exemplary and great way. There are practically no complaints, quite the contrary: I reach a lot of e-mails about the very good care, about the low level of access, about the great willingness to support. So thank you very much to the employees of the AWS! I said the same thing last night with regard to officials: A reward, a premium for the employees would be urgently needed. I know the NEOS see this with the rewards very critical, we don't see it critically. [[Abg. Loacker:... do this deliberately!]] [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] We think that should happen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another area is Silicon Austria. There is a cooperation with the universities Linz and Klagenfurt as well as TU Graz. It is now more or less all on track. From my point of view, there could be even more investment in cooperation in universities, but that will develop, and I think it is on a good path. It should also be said, as was the case yesterday with Mr Fäsmann: FTI-Pakt and FTI-Strategy are actually the central point in the coming years. There are basically three Ministries involved, all of which are already very far, and it is now still in the Federal Chancellery. I think it really is for all those who work in this field of science and research to put the FTI-Pact and the FTI-Strategy, which are finished de facto, in the first place, to be presented and presented as soon as possible. I am still seizing an area of research to be carried out within the framework of the FFG and its own programmes, namely the field of microelectronics and battery research, which, of course, is also very closely related to climate change. Of course, there will be intensive research in the whole area of climate change. In addition, I believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55148	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55169	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to highlight today a few chapters of the budget for research and technology, all of which could bear the same title for me, not in terms of content, but in terms of classification. This classification means: Appearance or sham activity. – Mrs Federal Minister, this may sound hard for you at the first moment; I will prove why. Let's take the FTI strategy or even the research and technology initiative: We have adopted the strategy under Hofer. It then needed until 2020, until the summer, until we finally had a law to do so. We still do not have a financing path, and I still do not hear a word about where it is really going about the three-year service agreements. These are supposed to be done by December – how do we want to do that? But above all: It is up to the FTI strategy to be renewed. The currently valid one is still valid. Madam President, by Mrs Bures. When does the new strategy come into play? I don't have any activities to do this. Next chapter: artificial intelligence. Also, the strategy of Hofer in 2019 was actually done. Even if you want to rework these completely, I don't think: When is it finally published? Or do we simply want to disburse the funding that goes into both chapters in accordance with the principle of foundry? – It can't be either. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Next chapter: Space. Austria is a space nation. It is noted by the increased resources. I don't even want to argue that more money has been made available, but how do we spend our money? Where, apart from ESA participation, do we promote Austrian companies? With Austrian companies I do not mean those who actually sit in Switzerland or where the parent company sits in Switzerland, but I really mean Austrian companies. Let us now come to the next chapter, the one that supposedly employs the Federal Government most since spring – but in reality it only employs the citizens – the so-called Covid Pandemic. If it is true that this is really to be treated as priority and efficient, where is a covid follow-up research? We are pouring billions of euros in the medical field, but we now have the second time that the lockdown comes at a time when the infectious values actually go back, and be it only a few days. Where is the accompanying research, which once looks: What measures help, which do not help? [[Call the Greens.]] This is not scientifically researched, even if your party colleagues are not interested and would like to tell you with intermediate calls: Something's happening anyway. – Nothing happens at all! Mrs Bundesminister, this is a blind flight from the strategic approach, and a blind flight will not be useful even if the funds become more. In fact, this is rather a thanks to taxpayers, because they accompany it with their regular taxes and that they pay it, but it is a waste of money. I can't spare you this accusation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The citizen wants to know what his tax resources are used for. Everything else is a cut-off for the taxpayer. I'm going to get used to a Ceterum senseo now: Ms. Federal Minister, the route from Wolowitz via Linz and Graz to Koper, is a long-distance transport route and not a local transport route. They have this to finance and not the countries!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55223	Mr deputies, would you like to make another request?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55239	Thank you. [[Rejoicing with members of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I also make a request on the subject of covid research, so that it is officially available: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of taxpayers, it would be urgent, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55363	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. Now John is speaking jewelry minstrels. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55390	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Some statements about the corona pandemic of a group in this House are really no longer to comment on, that is no longer possible to understand. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] If you are addressing the field of research, I say that as an Austrian, we should be very proud that one of our companies is involved in the development of a highly reliable vaccine. I think that shows that the Austrian research country really has a lot to offer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would like to focus on nature and the environment. I think that also shows a very clear theme of the Federal Government – also in view of the Corona crisis –: Where can we make offensive measures to get out of this crisis, to revive the labour market and perhaps to develop future visions? Especially environmental and climate protection are not over. We must continue to work hard on this, and now we are using these resources in the budget to make progress accordingly. Parliament's budget service confirms the enormous effort made by the Ministry: only in the Environmental Promotion Act plus 68.1 percent of the funds, further increases in the climate and energy funds and also in the energy policy as a whole. We drive extremely high in all these areas. We have also achieved an enormous impact on the labour market with 14 percent increase in environmental measures in the Covid investment premium, where we can also achieve an added value by means of environmental protection. I think it is quite, very important that we succeed accordingly: to achieve two things with one measure. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The Renewable Extension Act is also being newly developed. We must remember in all the measures we are taking – because we need a broad mix of measures to get from the fossil energy sources accordingly to the renewables in order to achieve our CO2 targets – one thing: that we do not get into a needle hole in the pipeline expansion process. I believe that we must pay attention to this, and we need to look more closely at it there and there. There are already many possibilities, and we must manage to disrupt the energy system accordingly, so that we can implement the possibility of taking part in the electricity customer, the possibility of liberalisation in the electricity market accordingly. The Peer-to-Peer Regulation of the European Union states this, and only We will also achieve our CO2 targets in the long term. But we need all measures to do that. I would also like to address a single one which concerns the addition to petrol, the so-called E10, with which we can replace the corresponding volume and become CO2-neutral. There is, of course, also a lot of criticism, but the European Commission did not issue a progress report on renewable energy until October of this year, which, I quote, states that “no correlation between food prices and demand for biofuels has been established”. In other words, we have the opportunity to produce both: to produce energy from biomass and thus also to ensure the production of food. This is no longer against each other, one has now, as it were, come to terms with science. That's where we recognize: Energy policy is economic policy. We have to be active there. We're taking the right steps. Energy will also be a currency in the future. In other words, energy is the currency of the future, and the more we produce it in our own country, the better we will also be able to stand there.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55467	Michael Bernhard is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55491	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It is well known that I am critical of the 2021 budget for the environment and climate, UG 43. However, my colleague Yannick Shetty will be more precise about this later on. I would like to venture an attempt and condensate with content. This doesn't happen too often in our house. I'd say I'm missing the UG 43,5. You won't find them in your budget details. What would be the UG 43,5? – That would be the greenhouse gas budget that would have to be budgeted accordingly in our house. The greenhouse gas budget is a measure that would recognise that we not only have to decide on financial resources for the Republic, but that we also have to decide on greenhouse gas emissions every year. There is a limit value that is important to our country. This may not be so central in the debate, but Austria has committed itself in Paris to helping as far as possible to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees. This means a very specific number for Austria: If you take this seriously, Austria today stands at almost 700 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which can still be consumed. These are, of course, numbers with which, as a practically thinking person, one cannot automatically start something, but I continue in the history of numbers, because that is the debate on a budget. If this were to be applied and said, all the necessary steps must be taken by 2030, because many of the technologies we need today are not yet in place, Austria would still have 550 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents by 2030. Now it is the case that Austria stands at 78 million tonnes today. That's the measure we're going to take from in a budget. We take this very seriously from NEOS, but if it were to take the turquoise-green government very seriously, then you would have to consider: How do we get from the 78 million in the target climate neutrality 2040 in 2021 to a total of 73 million, 2022 to 69 million, 2023 to 65 million, and 2030 to 37 million and by 2035 to 17 million tonnes of CO2? This is not magic and magic, it would be responsible to deal with the figures, because we assume, on the one hand, that they are very relevant to our climate and, on the other, because Austria has entered into an international commitment. This budget, this budget path does not exist, because there is no detailed reference to the UG 43.5. But what you can look at is: What about the existing UGs? If we take the mobility of UG 41, Austria stands at 26 million tonnes of equivalents in 2021 and would have to stand at 15 million tonnes in 2030. The investments and projects you present in this UG are not enough to reach these 15 million 2030. It is simply not clear from this budget overview and from this budgetary path how you want to achieve the objectives to which the Republic of Austria admits and to which the Federal Government acknowledges itself in the government programme. So you can imagine what that means: Every year, it would be necessary to reduce by two billion kilometres of petrol or diesel passenger cars. That's quite a lot. The expansion of public transport and other alternatives is, of course, central. We now have 8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents in the buildings that we discuss very much, and we need to reduce by 0.4 tonnes per year. There is a need for 3 percent of all buildings per year to be renovated – Austria currently stands at 1 percent. One can get to the meeting that the new budget has more resources, but this is not enough as a measure to actually achieve this savings of 0.4 tons per year to 2040 linear. In other UGs, for example in agriculture – and here I hear farmers not telling the representatives of the Federal Government about it as much as possible – there is the possibility to achieve on the revenue side increases by reforestation, by a different form of soil processing. It's not much, we don't have a miracle weapon right now, but if we were to reforest and manage the soil differently, it would be a contribution to the fact that we don't have to save everything everywhere. The UG for industry and electricity also lacks any path that would contribute to climate neutrality by 2040. I would now like to conclude by saying: What are very concrete measures? – The debate is often cross-border. One often wants to agree that if we simply plant trees, we save the planet or the climate. It's not going to be enough alone. We looked at this: If we were to plant two million trees in Austria by 2040, this would result in a savings of 1 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. If we were to successfully combat tank tourism in Austria and balance the price of petrol and diesel, we would save up to 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents each year. If we were to build the third runway, we would risk 3 million tonnes per year, and we would build the Lobau Tunnel – that is your decision, Mrs Minister – that is up to 150 000 tonnes per year. That is – and that is now the central element – this budget that I would like to discuss now is not available. There is no debate in the National Council, which would be necessary, on this matter: How much more do we have? How much can we afford in 2021, 2022, 2023? What measures do we take to actually implement what we have promised internationally and what we are talking about in the world? That is why we cannot approve NEOS of such a budget. If the measures you are presenting do not comply with the Paris climate agreement, if the measures do not comply with the objective of climate neutrality by 2040, if there is no comprehensible presentation of how we come to this goal and make the right policy for the next generations, we cannot accept them either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55570	The next speaker is Mr Hermann Weratschnig. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55592	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There will be no declarations of intent, no determined targets will be effective, and – we know it – self-responsibility will not be enough. I mean not the Corona crisis, no, but the climate and environmental crisis. If we do not manage to reach the climate targets, we have a global problem that has literally been washed. If we lack the courage to reverse the trend, if we put individual interests before general interests, if the courage leaves us half way, then there are these big problems. Climate protection cannot be reduced to the interest of ecologically conscious and green people, no, but it is an overall social task and challenge, a responsibility of 183 delegates here in the House, from nine days of land – throughout Germany, across Europe and worldwide. That's our job, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It will not help us to add value to this world if we spoil our own livelihoods and do not secure these foundations. Yes, the claim of this coalition is to initiate this turnaround. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, the mobility, environment and energy chapters are an active entry into this trend turnaround. No blockades must stop reforms and measures necessary to save our planet! Ladies and gentlemen! What we are presenting today for the mobility turnaround in the 2021 budget will not be enough alone. There is also no stone from the crown when it is said that certain foundations have also been set among previous governments, and that the introduction of necessary measures has been missed in the past. Let us rise with this budget, with EUR 95 million for the three levels of the 1-2-ticket, with EUR 100 million for the expansion of public transport, with EUR 135 million for the Covid Fund to compensate for the reduction of infrastructure charges, with EUR 2.4 billion for public transport and, of course, for the ÖBB Framework Plan! We stand by it; we are facing the challenges of the future. On the basis of three examples, I would like to explain this. Reduction of transit traffic: There will need to be another lever in the framework of the tax reform when it comes to shifting traffic from road to rail. We will have to continue to argue in Europe, Madam President. Federal Minister, and I hope and expect all Members of this House to be clearly behind you and to work out this way together. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: Given the German CO2 price, the diesel privilege will have to be a privilege for decarbonisation in the future. We need a privilege for health and environmental protection. We need a privilege that helps us to meet these climate objectives, which we are also being measured at. Third point, I would like to address this very clearly and clearly: We work together on a mobility money with a clear public office and a security of those who will still depend on commuting with the car in the future! Ladies and gentlemen! There are also many other points that are important: Transport education, road safety, the use for pedestrians and cyclists. Take advantage of Corona as an opportunity to invest in starting the turnaround of the trend! I am convinced that we will work together on this. We are simply working for the needs of the people in this country, for which we are also elected! The mobility, environment and energy chapters offer the best ways to bring us in here and actively operate climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55665	The next speaker was Mrs Julia Elisabeth. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55689	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! High house! The question is: What must a budget, including a climate budget, be able to do in the time of such a crisis? It must be able to do three things: It must save first jobs and businesses and also actively create jobs. Secondly, it is necessary to save these jobs in order to save these companies, massive investments, not investment for investment, but where they are useful, where they bring us progress and where we need action, for example in climate policy. We know that investment in the field of climate protection can also create many jobs. Thirdly, there is still a need for fair funding for these investments. [[Abg. Hanger: You have clearly read the budget!]] - Yeah, I read the budget. And now on the crucial question: Is it possible for the budget to meet these requirements to respond to the hundreds of thousands of jobs missing on the labour market and also to the environmental crisis? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Hanger: Haven't you read it?- Oh, my God!]] But now to the good news: There is a clear, very significant increase in the environment. 500 million euros for transport, 100 million euros for research and development, 220 million euros for thermal renovation: These are increases that can be seen. The promised billions of climate protection that we have called for, but also the workers' chamber and environmental NGOs such as Global 2000 do not exist. There's about a fifth missing. I know you're gonna say, Well, Mrs. Lord is in opposition! What, except that it's not enough, will it say?- Oh, my God! – That is why I now quote some economists who are neither in opposition nor otherwise politically active, but – on the contrary – are the experts and experts you have appointed for the budget consultation. IHS Chief Martin Kocher, appointed by ÖVP, says that the preview could have been somewhat more ambitious, and extensive issues such as climate protection or innovation and research would be lacking in these days. Wifo-chef Christoph Badelt, nominated by the Greens, says that a real focus in the field of environment or research should be much greater, in the volume of a few billion. Then I commend what economist Markus Marterbauer says about the Chamber of Labour: While the funds for public transport and also for the reconstruction of the energy system are rising significantly, the measures remain too small to achieve the climate objectives. - That's the budget that's available to us. There is an increase; it is good and we welcome it. It is not enough for the hundreds of thousands of jobs that we are missing, but it is also – the colleague of the NEOS has done it before – to achieve the climate objective of being 2040 CO2-neutral. That means, Mrs Minister – I did it at the last budget debate, I do it on this budget debate and I will do it in the future – that I call for the additional annual climate protection billion. And – for everyone here in the High House –: We will continue to call for fair funding. All these investments can not only be made through taxes on income, on work, on consumption, there will also be a contribution of wealth and profit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55742	Mr Andreas Ottenschlagert the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55767	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! A short replica on Mrs. Col. Herr: I think that this budget is indeed also a massive measure of economic recovery, as is the great investment in railway development which Mr Stöger has very much praised. This is not a climate protection billion, but it is really a lot of kima protection billions that are budgeted here. Ladies and gentlemen! The chapter on mobility in the budget reflects the government programme's agreement very well. It's a very offensive budget. We have a lot ahead of us in terms of mobility change. It has already been mentioned that a large part of this budget is in the development of climate-friendly public transport, in particular the expansion of rail infrastructure. Many billions of euros will be invested for this in the coming year, and that is true. This is a way we started a few years ago, and it will continue even more offensively now, and that is true. In addition, of course, the offer in public transport should also be extended and attractive accordingly. It is time and again about the so-called transport billions – Mr President Hofer has also forced this in his previous role –: This is also reflected now, for example in the development and support of regional railways and also in the urban area in which investment is made. As an example, I mention the support for a project in Salzburg, where a local railway from the main station to Mirabellplatz is co-financed to further attract public transport and the offer. I have already mentioned the economic situation. I think if I have this right in my mind now, we can secure it and create it per billion we invest in railway development, 15 000 jobs – apart from the fact that it also has other economic effects, because it is an attractive range of mobility for citizens, and this is crucial for a good economic location. Perhaps two more things, Mrs Federal Minister – Mr Weratschnig, I have already put a lot of measures in place with figures, which is why I do not want to repeat: One is the European dimension that has already been suggested in the field of mobility and therefore also in climate protection policy. We are talking about the European dimension, for example, when moving traffic from road to rail. One is that we invest a lot of money, and the other that we create a single European railway area. A lot of work and a lot of lobbyism will be in front of you in Brussels. For example, if you want to transport a good from Austria to Spain by rail, this is very bureaucratic, it takes too long, because we still have too many obstacles on the track within Europe. We need to reduce these obstacles, and we need a common European turn. The Green Deal would actually give it up that we achieve a lot together. Finally, I would like to express a thank you. Before the big laughter comes: I would like to thank the employees who maintain public transport in times like this. However, I would also like to thank the transport industry, the companies and their employees, who in times like these will face challenges and will continue to face them. I would also like to take this opportunity to invite you, too, Mrs Bundesminister: The transport industry faces two major challenges, on the one hand, the Covid crisis with all its economic impact and, on the other hand, the climate change contribution that we call for, which it has to make and which it is also willing to make. We must resolve this in the dialogue with each other, with our political support, because, I say that now a little fluffy and apologise, the truck per se is nothing bad. We need it, especially in the urban centres, just on the so-called last mile we can't transport everything on the rail any more. We need framework conditions to support the transport industry accordingly so that we can also implement these objectives which we have set ourselves accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55821	The next speaker is Mr Christian Hafenecker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e55842	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Ottenschlager, I always notice one thing at the ÖVP, and this is perhaps also a reference to the condition of the coalition: If black ministers here are thought of by black speakers in speeches, then thank you very much no longer; if green ministers sit down, the ÖVP does not say thank you once. [[Abg. Haubner: You can do that!]] Maybe that should give you a little bit of a thought. [[towards Greens]] To colleague Weratschnig: Mr Weratschnig – and this is the next bow I want to stretch here – if you say that there have been many measures that need to be reclaimed now, I guarantee you that you will not be able to take a lot of measures, because if you abolish the diesel privilege, it will not take long until the Bauerbund stands with tractors in front of the ministry of the Mrs Minister and until the coalition is back. I'm not talking about your mobility money, which is de facto, it's being abolished. You'll have a lot of fun. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weratschig.]] I'll give you a couple more months, but it won't last for long. Mrs Bundesminister, we have already been able to talk a little bit about your current account on Tuesday. I told you you were one of those ministers with most of the berry in advance. Well, if you look at what actually happened, it looks a little sad. To call this a total failure would perhaps be a bit unfair to a lady, I don't say so. But if I look at your budget and your current account last year, I'll ask myself the question of what you really need a budget for. Why Come You here? Why Leave Do you approve of Parliament's budget if you don't do anything, Mrs. Federal Minister? They have brought two government documents within a year. You've made an AUA deal with which you have reduced 450 million euros. No one knows if the AUA will still exist afterwards, you have not provided for any means of intervention for the government. I'm sure it won't take long, then we'll stand here again and bind the next package – it doesn't matter, we're already printing the money somewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] You submit a framework plan that you have actually written off from the former Minister Hofer, you just extend it a little with a few bike parking spaces, and that is the new solution. Mrs Minister, all of us here in Parliament are not stupid, we can read and know what you are not doing. Your 1-2-3 ticket is my favorite project. They promise us in the Transport Committee: Well, in the first semester 2021 this will work. – Mrs. Federal Minister, talk to your people at the Ministry once! They have not yet concluded a single contract with a federal state. I tell you one thing – also a tip as a former coalition partner of the ÖVP –: The 1-2-3 ticket you have entered into the government program is the great cartoon of the ÖVP, which will be brought before you, and you run after it and you actually believe that one of the head of the ÖVP will conclude any contract with you. Mrs. Federal Minister, I would have thought you were more reasonable. Too bad you still believe the ÖVP in this context. The 1-2-3 ticket will be one of the points where the coalition will break. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we also have the disaster at the railway – and there I am not talking about the station closures and the toilet facilities that are closed everywhere in Austria, which is also very interesting and nice to the commuters. Then it goes on: Federal Road Development Plan – there is no. As a transport minister, you don't have roads, we don't need them, nor are they built. Mrs Bundesminister, the Greens simply cannot transport policy. This has also been seen in Vienna, where after ten years of transport councillor is now finally a new coalition with the NEOS, which managed to do better cycling policy in a few days than you did in ten years. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I'm excited about how the NEOS prove themselves in Vienna. In any case, you can see: from the pop-up cycle path to the pop-up minister, you just can't make traffic. [[Abg. Strasser: That's where the NEOS understanding speaks!]] I have just asked this question, Mrs Federal Minister, and I have actually been surprised that this has left your house, because that is a 16-page self-reliance. You'll be very broad about what you haven't done in the past year. Of course, I would also like to inform you of a few excerpts. I am surprised that you signed this, because it is in fact necessary to shift the officials who have done this, because it does not really allow a good picture of you. For example, they say: Corona is the reason why you couldn't take so many measures. – I will help you with your request for the jumps. Do you know what you did? – You have had to complete four events related to Corona in the field of transport. So you've been so stressed about Corona. I'm reading to you now what you haven't done or what you said, that's all yet, everything's almost done, in planning or otherwise: Novelle of road transport: Come on! Aviation Act: Move! Environmental Promotion Act: 2021/2022! Railway law: Let's see! Energy efficiency law: Yeah, we might have to take care of it sometime. Heat Act: There's no date yet! Emissions Certificate Act: Well, everything in work! Climate Protection Act: It's also planned at some point. [[Call the Greens.]] So come, Mrs. Federal Minister, and say: But we're electrifying 500 kilometers of railway! [[Further call to the Greens.]] Well, did you look until when? - Until 2030. You may be back in the government next time, but the 500 kilometers you will never be able to drive. What's missing? – E-mobility: That's where you only rely on models you found from us. Support projects for battery production are also projects you have taken over. So everything you like, you actually took over from your predecessor. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have not shown your own profile in this ministry. Now I'm coming to the end. Because you always say you want to protect the environment: The only project you could have taken over would have actually contributed to decarbonisation would have been the transport billion. Well, you know, you've ruined them. So that you can't stand in front of your green base, in front of your voters without anything, I'll help you again. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Bundesminister, you may indeed be able to save a little bit of your reputation and honor as far as transport policy is concerned; you have failed in everything else. In the end, only one request from me personally: I have been dealing very intensively with transport policy for a number of years now. I had to find out: You can't. Therefore, my request to you is: Make room for someone who is perhaps a little more competent in this area and above all also wants to change something in the transport sector! It's not you. I don't know if you find someone like that in the greens either. In any case, that would be the first approach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the Greens.]] [[13:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56013	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and it is under negotiation. Mr Lukas Hammer has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56041	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr Hafenecker, that you have now listed all the shortcomings in transport policy under FPÖ leadership. Unfortunately, we have found a very large mountain of failures, but don't be afraid: We'll work it out. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Once again in the direction FPÖ: Mr Deimek of the FPÖ has spoken of the so-called "Corona pandemic". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] We know this from right-wing and right-wing politicians – no, actually politicians, you don't have to do that – from right-wing far-right politicians around the world, that they are impoverished by both the corona pandemic and the climate crisis, although both are equally deadly. [[Abg. Deimek: And of left-wing extremes, of greens, of communists...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This antiscientity is deadly. Unfortunately, a sad 230 000 deaths in the United States and many avoidable deaths in Brazil under Bolsonaro have been reported. [[Abg. Deimek: Then why don't you do any accompanying research?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: You confuse Pragmatism with...!]] Especially this year, the biggest two-fifths would have to be made clear in what kind of situation we are in. Half the west coast of the United States is burned off. We are now talking about climate fires, a whole new phenomenon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] In the Atlantic on Tuesday, Hurricane Iota was 30. Hurricane this season hit the coast of Nicaragua, where 13 days earlier was a hurricane. [[Abg. Deimek: What are you drinking again...?]] The climate crisis is real and it is the biggest challenge we have ever faced. [[Abg. Deimek: And then why is the Minister doing nothing?]] We have a historical responsibility in the climate crisis – that is known to all of us – and we also have to face this historical responsibility with great determination. Because we also take this responsibility very seriously, next year we will have the largest climate protection budget that this Republic has ever seen. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] For all climate protection instruments, there will be more money next year: for the climate fund, for domestic environmental promotion, for the construction of bicycle roads, also for the expansion of public transport, we have heard it. [[Abg. Deimek: 4 meters wide!]] What I am particularly pleased about is that we finally assume our international responsibility and expand international climate finance more significantly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Bicycle roads: the installation of green spaces!]] This budget will make a big contribution to the fundamental remodelling of our country. [[Abg. Hafenecker: ground sealing by bike paths!]] This is also necessary if we want to get out of oil, gas and coal in the next 20 years, which is basically the day after tomorrow. For example, space heat can be very well represented. We have 600,000 oil heaters and nearly one million gas heaters in Austria alone at the headquarters. If we want to make Austria climate-neutral, we need to exchange them all over the next 20 years for climate-friendly heating systems and ensure that the buildings in which they stand are more energy efficient. Therefore, there will be 350 million euros of support for thermal renovation and heating exchange for the next year alone. This is seven times more than in the 2019 budget estimate and a significant increase compared to this year. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This promotion, as we know, has already existed in the past. We were there at 38 million, 40 million euros a year. However, this has never been achieved, the promotions were always very fast away. In principle, those with the fastest Internet connection have received a promotion, the rest unfortunately had bad luck. We are ending this stop-and-go policy of the past today. We know that, despite the promotion that exists – for example, when you get EUR 5,000 for a new boiler – many people cannot afford to change because they have such a low income. A minimum pensioner with oil heating at home cannot begin with the funding of 5 000 euros that we make available, even if the country pays something. That is why we have for the first time created an additional pot of 50 million euros per year, from which we help households with very, very low incomes to adjust their heating and also to clean up their homes. Because we always ask how we define it: From my point of view, this should happen – and we are currently in intensive negotiations with the countries – that the lowest-income 10 to 20 percent of the population will be ready for the new heating system, including consultation – i.e. 100 percent promotion. There's never been that in Austria! [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Sir.]] What's particularly important to me is: This huge climate protection budget – and I think we can now overcome ourselves with superlatives, because it is simply a huge climate protection budget with a lot of funding – is not a one-time effect due to a economic recovery policy. If you look at the long-term financial framework, you'll see it goes on. The climate protection budget will increase every year until 2024. That's important. Why? – Because people in our country know that we will not leave them alone in this way, and especially because the businesses know that they can now start planning in the long term. Many companies, such as installers or electricians, have a shortage of skilled workers and can now, due to this volume of orders, which is due to us in the next few years, plan long-term. That is why this long-term definition is also particularly important. All in all: The link between economic reason, social responsibility, ambitious climate protection and, as has been said, social justice is a key feature of this budget. That is why today is also an extremely encouraging day for climate protection in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56231	Mr Johannes Margreiter is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56258	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Dear Seers! It seems as if the corona theme devours so slowly everything and everyone; no day theme that is not burdened, replaced or pushed away. Even the climate theme that was still hotly discussed a year ago seems to be going on – but no wrong anticipation please, it has at most cooled down the headline suitability of this topic, the polar caps are melting further ahead. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] In fact, Corona, climate change, the present mobility budget and a camel have more similarities than could be expected at first glance; but please follow the line. If Corona tells us something clearly, then that there are global problems that do not recognise any state borders. [[Abg. Kickl: A plea for the central state or what?]] Whether in Wisconsin, whether in Milan, or in Tehran: A human enemy, tiny small, far too small to be perceived with a free eye, kills hundreds of thousands of us. And although this circumstance can be proved by figures, well-known researchers around the world call for us to develop care, not only to respect our environment, but also to protect it through our own actions, there are people who simply claim: It's all a lie, fake, left propaganda. It will confirm that it was all the infamous storm in the water glass, a fashion appearance, hysteria, an immeasurable world downfall scenario! And, Mr Kickl – because you're just here in plenary – I don't mean just you. [[Abg. Kickl: Have you already threw your cell phone away and the computer equipment?]] Do we remember what I'm talking about now? That sounds already very familiar, it's been heard so often. But yes, of course: Let us simply replace the headlines, we overwrite Corona with climate change – and we come to the same result, to the same arguments, the same world conspiracy theories! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I now think that it is also the same politicians who accept this subject, but then the matter loses any joke. The same cable car bonuses, the same gambling lobbyists, the same white old men, the same specialist diletants determine the future handling of environmental protection! [[Abg. Hear: What does he say?]] Your draft budget in all honours, Mrs Federal Minister, alone, I lack the faith when Your turquoise partners are suddenly to be recognized as blatant climate rescuers. From the black thinker to the Turkish thinker, well, this is painting, but not from the old white man who still believes to find a counter-argument by calling women “reverse luder”, by the old white man, who wants to punish divergent opinions of women with the threat of waxes! [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Hörl:... Just talk stupid!]] [[Abg. Straster: Who wrote this speech?]] This is the path, Mrs Minister, that you want to take with your budget here, you will have to go on your own – this forecast I now dare to go straight ahead. And if in the end you only follow the leading approach, the beautiful one lies in pursuing a goal, and not in achieving it, then you have apparently never followed a tram in Vienna. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] This explains the relationship between Corona, climate change and the current mobility budget. One thing is missing. [[State Secretary Brunner: The Camel!]] - The camel, right, right. Mrs. Federal Minister, a camel goes through the needlehole rather than that the ÖVP becomes a real climate protection party. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[State Secretary Brunner: (delighted) We've been here for a long time!]] I would like you to know from my heart that it is possible to implement the ambitious budget approach to the mobility budget. I wish you good luck, you'll need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56409	Ms Leonore Geessler spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56430	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, you are watching this session digitally, in front of the TV or wherever! The 2021 budget is and remains – I have mentioned it several times in this House – a climate protection budget. It includes as much money for climate protection as no budget ever before in Austria, in all three sub-divisions that the Federal Ministry of Climate Change is responsible for, and I will also say a few words on all three sub-divisions. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Lord]] Whether it be with the expansion of renewables, be it with the renovation offensive, whether with investment in rail, in public transport, in innovation and research: We do not only create climate change with this budget, we create regional jobs with this budget, we create regional value added. So the three-fold dividend that is being called for provides this budget, which is also far beyond these three UGs. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It contains more than one billion climate protection in this budget. 40 percent of the applications from the investment premium go into environmental and climate protection measures, and a clear focus has been placed on climate protection in the municipal package. We invest consistently, consistently and not only in climate protection through the budget of the Ministry of Climate Change – and this is the difference to previous budgets, which are also markedly apparent. I would like to start with research and innovation, because this research and innovation budget is also a climate protection budget this year. This is done on the one hand by promoting traditionally green technologies, on the other hand by using technologies such as artificial intelligence or many others, such as in the field of microelectronics, for climate protection, on the other hand, under the tag Tech for Green. Artificial intelligence is a very good example. It's not just about optimizing shopping behavior; with this thought it was originally applied once. It's about: How can artificial intelligence applications be used, for example, to reflect on the state of biodiversity in order to model the energy consumption of cities? There are very new possibilities that we support with this budget. Great success has just been achieved in the UG 34 budget: We have an increase of 24 percent in the UG 34. Through the funds of the economic package, we have 100 million Euro more for research and innovation. There has been such a great increase for many, many, many years not. In 2013 we had 406 million euros, 2020 it is 556 million euros, so also in the innovation and technology budget – not to mention – an economic contribution, a support for companies especially at this difficult time. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to address a few of the priorities in the UG 34, first of all the transformation into green production. I would like to stress this because, for the first time, we are also creating, for the first time, a cross-programme focus between basic programmes and the future production programme in the FFG, i.e. pooling, lifting, strategic use. We promote Tech for Green by promoting information, production and space technologies. We have an extra focus on SMEs and the question of how we can support them in implementing, as far as possible, unbureaucratic and rapid climate and environmental innovations. The decarbonisation of industry is also a major topic for the UG 34, for example, on the promotion of the energy show region, which brings very close-to-market innovation into operation. The more we implement climate protection in the field of innovation and technology with this budget, the more we will be able to stimulate new solutions, the more successful we will be, not only as a ministry, but also as a society in the fight against the climate crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This brings me to the UG 41 – a lot has already been talked about today. Also in the UG 41, in the field of mobility – and I also thank everyone for the kind words for it – the budget is a climate budget. We use all necessary levers in the areas of infrastructure, transport and tariff supply to strengthen the role of public transport as a strong public transport also in a sustainable and comprehensive manner. Let me give you a few examples: The private railway budget is more than tripled to around 124 million euros. This corresponds to an increase of 240 percent. This sets the course, including for modernisations, for electrifications. For the new instrument of the Stadtregionalbahn, the funds will be shown in the budget for the first time. This will lay the basis for important projects that are beyond the city's limits, in order to be implemented from the title. Since Mr Hafenecker gives the same speech every two days, I have looked at it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] The comparison makes sure: Continuation of the budgetary status of recent years: 33 million euros in the area of private railway investment programmes. We are now presenting a fourfold increase to EUR 120 million, a first one for the urban railways, a five-year medium-term investment programme, which will be completed this year, and 15a contracts for concrete agreements. – The comparison makes sure! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have already told a lot about the framework plan, so I hold the explanations briefly. The framework plan is the largest framework, based on good preliminary work from many decades. Austria has kept the railway high as a backbone of environmentally friendly public mobility, but we put one on it. It is an increase compared to the originally shortened 2018–2023 framework, a significant increase in the 2021–2026 framework to a total of 17.5 billion euros with 3 billion euros of new investment, completely new projects, which are all over Austria will provide a right boost for the expansion of the environmentally friendly infrastructure. The extension and quality of the roadmap offer is also budgeted at 92 million euros. The 1-2-3 ticket with the Austrian level is budgeted at 95 million euros in the first year. This, according to all our calculations, is also the budget that we need for it; it is increasing in the years that followed. We will continue and increase significantly increased support for electric mobility and active mobility, and the tenfold amount will continue to be available for the promotion of cycle road infrastructure. In order to clarify a misunderstanding, which has now also come through with Michi Bernhard a little: Of course, the budget is part of climate policy, but climate change policy includes the full instrument case, particularly in the area of mobility: CO2 standards for the passenger fleet – the next major legislative package at European level – next year, the question of legal framework conditions, infrastructure, tax system et cetera plus budget, which makes the path towards 2040. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not want to mention, particularly in the area of mobility, that we have invested a great deal of money also for the suspension of the consequences of Covid-19. This is already happening in 2020, but we are continuing to do so. We need public transport as a strong backbone of mobility also post Corona, and therefore some of the measures continue to exist for 2021. On the one hand, this is an increase in rail freight transport of 140 million euros, but on the other hand, the annual reduction of the railway toll is also budgeted with a total of 135 million euros for passenger and freight transport. We have also budgeted a further emergency on the western route until February 2021 to ensure that we reach our destination safely by train, public transport as usual. I would like to address UG 43 very briefly: Climate, environment and energy. This has also been discussed many times, but with the investment package we are launching in the UG 43, with a significant increase in climate protection – compared to 2019, that is, the budget before our accession – it is the two and a half times, from EUR 280 million to EUR 681 million today, which is a significant increase – it is the budget in which the climate change focus is probably most evident in increasing the figures. We are investing – Mr Hammer has mentioned a lot of this – especially in the building area – because I am giving Michi Bernhard again, that is the central area we have to deal with – especially in the thermal renovation, in the boiler exchange. However, we also provide additional funds for photovoltaics, for the roll-out of renewable energy communities, for international climate work – that is a very important concern to me – and I would also like to mention the biodiversity fund we are teaching for this year for biodiversity outside agricultural policy. You see – and I conclude now – climate protection is a clear winner in this budget, and with it our country wins. We can transform into modern infrastructure, in modern railway stations, into a land that is heat-friendly, where the solar current comes from the roofs, with an economy, with an industry that has made itself early, timely, timely fit for the future, with a good quality of life, with safe jobs. With this, this budget also gives perspective, and I think that is our all task in times like this: to give perspective not only for today and tomorrow, but also for the day after, for the next generations, So that in Austria we can also lead a good life in 2050, 2050. And that our work works, especially in climate protection, you see in this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56572	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56594	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear Seers! Mr Margreiter, in addition to the fact that I cannot fully understand your package with regard to the men in the EIA – I honestly know many white men who, of course, retain all morality – I would like to refer, above all, to your Bible quote, which you have changed, and I can only say in this context: [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl]] A camel goes through a needlehole rather than the NEOS being an economic party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to come to the issue today, and that is innovation. We all know that innovation is the crucial success factor, especially in international competition, also for growth. We also know that Austria is a high-paid country, and innovation is the very factor that is essential so that we can keep the site so that we can secure jobs and that we can secure and expand prosperity. In this context, I can also quote Prof. Hengstschäger. Collaborator Brandstätter usually brings a book from him – we also read his books, I just want to say in this context. He says: “We are just so good at it because we always have new ideas. Our innovative capacity is the key to our journey to the best.” – That’s it, ladies and gentlemen! This capacity for innovation is essential and we are doing much to expand it, not only in the education system, but we have a research funding system that takes account of it. I think that's what we see in the budget. We talked yesterday about the positive budget in UG 31, in basic research, but also this budget in UG 34 can really be seen. I think even the opposition was a little surprised yesterday if the height, if the growth: 20 percent, that's exactly what we see in the UG 34, and that's really gratifying. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] 100 million euros more, my Ladies and gentlemen, we have in the UG 34, which we invest in research. Mr Deimek, I do not understand why you are talking about wasting tax money in this context. We invest 50 million euros more in the basic programmes. We invest 27 million euros more in programmes such as production of the future. These are exactly the programmes that our companies need. For all these programmes there are many excellent projects, and now we finally have the opportunity to actually realize them. So I honestly don't quite understand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Essentially, we are reacting quickly. We did this, for example, by means of the Emergency Call. This has already produced great initiatives, and great companies have been encouraged, be it on the one hand an AI-based chatbot, which is mainly intended to cause a discharge of the corona hotlines, or also a detection of Coronaviruses in wastewater, which can be used to detect an increased risk from coronavirs. I think that's exactly what we need at this moment. In this context, of course, climate protection is also essential. This is – you have already said it – a climate protection budget, and I believe that is essential, because of course we need to see that, although the Austrian industry is internationally present in this area, we are also making our further contribution. This is also good because, I believe, there are great opportunities, especially for the economy, because we can of course also export and benefit from these technologies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One of the priorities I would like to mention is the Important Projects of Common European Interest, the so-called Ipceis, which should also contribute at European level to the re-enhancement of our value chains, our key technologies in Europe. To date, Austria – we hope we will participate in more – participate in two: microelectronics and battery. I think that is essential because these are examples of industries or of economic sectors, in the area of which Austria is really a model country. In this connection to the conclusion a quote by Roman Herzog, former German President, from his Berlin speech: “The ability to innovate decides on our fate.” – What it needs is an innovation boost. I think the innovation boost has been given with this budget, and I am delighted about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56679	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56703	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, yesterday and the days before, we have already talked intensively about Corona and the effects on all of us, a pandemic that hit us in the middle of the market at the end of the day. The only chance to get out of this disease is simply a vaccine or a medicine that can fight this disease. These vaccines, these drugs, however, do not fall from heaven. They are the result of many years of basic research, many years of applied research and innovation. I would like to join my colleague, Mr Niss, on the topic of the innovative power of Austrian researchers, and briefly shed light on what has been done by the Austrian side for vaccines and medicines. Some have certainly observed that since the latest buses, schools have been on board the RT-Lamp tests – a test which has been developed here in Vienna by the Academy of Sciences together with the universities in order to achieve very quickly a result; the Gurgel test has also been developed in Vienna by scientists. On the vaccine side, it should be noted that without the company Polymun Scientific, which is based in Klosterneuburg, there could be no vaccine of Biontech, which is now the frontrunner vaccine. Polymun Scientific is actually a spin-off of the Boku. What does this company do? – It packs this vaccine into a formulation so that the vaccine can enter the cell and unfold its effect. The company intends to provide 100 million cans this year and produce 1.3 billion cans next year. Not only Polymun Scientific is an Austrian company, Biontech also has an Austrian co-founder, Christoph Huber, who has done incredible things with his co-founders. We could have this company here in Austria. I was still in the AWS myself at the time when we tried to get these three people to Austria, but we were able to offer them too little funding and funding. Of course, Apeiron can be mentioned in drug development, but also FX06 from the Med-Uni Vienna is a medicine that has been developed here and is on the best track. What do I want to say? – The most valuable thing we have in Austria is smart minds, their brilliant ideas, broad knowledge and know-how. Now I have only illuminated the medical field that is entirely, very important in pandemic times, but there are other areas such as artificial intelligence, such as natural climate research et cetera, et cetera, which also need money. Above all, interdisciplinary cooperation needs money, because the challenges we face are no longer to be resolved in a single way; there is a need for cooperation and cooperation. A great praise to you: They have really set a milestone in support of climate change research, but I wish we could get similar budget increases for other areas. The follow-up research, which I would like to see so much, has already become the subject today, which was urgently needed for interdisciplinary consideration and evaluation of the measures we put in the lockdown. Today, a “Nature” paper has come out of an Austrian consortium that gives an assessment of the measures from the mathematical-algoritmic artistic intelligence logic. However, I would wish that there was a psychological, an economic, a pedagogical view of it and that these measures should be assessed together, because otherwise it is always only one-dimensional. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So please have more money for other areas too! Please also pay more for the National Foundation, including the Austrian Fund, the clinical research belongs further dotted et cetera, et cetera. The list could continue. Furthermore, Mrs Minister – please also for the other areas!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56761	The word now comes from Ing. Martin Litschauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56785	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TVs and via live stream! I live just over 120 kilometres away from Parliament, and yet it takes almost 2.5 hours to get out of the forest area by train. But now I have to admit when I'm driving the car, I don't really save a lot of time either. In this respect, I am very pleased that we have started the largest railway development project in Austria with the ÖBB Framework Plan of 17.5 billion euros. This ÖBB framework also includes the start of the extension of the Franz-Josefs railway. The dual-track sectoral expansion of the Franz-Josefs train will mean for the Pendlers from Gmünd that the journey time to Vienna will be reduced by 10 minutes, and I think that is already a very good start. If we still improve the vehicle material, we can reduce the driving time considerably. However, I would also like to take the opportunity to encourage us from this point of view that we are also planning to continue. We discuss the possibilities of a Horner spange, abbreviations, upgrades of the Franz-Josefs train, which can bring substantial additional savings of driving time for the Franz-Josefs train. I hope that if we can bring Horn directly to the Franz-Josefs railway as a district capital, if we allow direct connections between the capitals of the districts, we will create a backbone of public transport, on which all bus connections and the micro-oil can then be built, and that we will then be able to build up these plans accordingly in the next few years. I think that's what we're all working on. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The public budget will be increased by 0.5 billion euros next year. Our Minister and her team are working on the implementation and completion of the Austrian 3 Series ticket. To do this, I have to say: The counterparts from the Waldviertel already eagerly await this ticket. I can also explain why: As an example, when you take the district capital Waidhofen on the Thaya, it is so that it will bring a savings of 1,000 euros per year for the donors, when you compare what now has to be paid for the annual ticket and in the future for the 3rd ticket. Although public transport in the forest district is not particularly well developed, those who can use it would be happy if we had it best tomorrow and not in just a few months. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Angerer and Deimek.]] That is why I appeal to the transport associations and federal states and hope that the potential contained in this 1-2-3 ticket will be recognised so that we can implement it relatively soon and quickly, because it has several aspects. It is a cost saving for the commuters, and that, I believe, is a very, very essential point. [[Abg. Deimek:... same people... pay less...!]] However, we also shift traffic from car to rail, which is an essential point for the environment and, of course, it also ensures more energy efficiency. The railway is much more energy efficient than the other modes of transport we know. Everything you shift there brings something. Maybe a little comment on this: Energy efficiency is a bit like a break in growth, because it is not about growth. Energy efficiency means the same performance, the same comfort with ever-increasing energy consumption. This is a completely different way of thinking, and I think we have to get into it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The electromobility is then the next interface we need. In rural areas it is not so easy to have the bus and similar transport available everywhere, so it also needs cars. And in many areas we will not be able to think of individual transport, but I will return to energy efficiency: The electric drive is the most efficient form. That's where the electric cars have their noses in front, and we have to go on. I am pleased that battery research is a topic that we have in the country with Kredel Electric battery builders that can do something, and that we now, with the 40 million euro funding for electric cars, also want to provide a boost for the electric cars – because this is the most efficient form at present. We must also be aware that this is not just about CO2 calculations and balance sheets. Electromobility also means less noise, means less nitrogen emissions, i.e. less fine dust. As it also has many health aspects, this issue is particularly important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: I've been an electric car driver for 20 years, and what always impressed me is that you can charge the car on your own photovoltaic system and then be energy-independent. Your own energy for your own car, for your own house is, I think, the best vision we can pursue. We are working on it and, I believe, we are now offering relatively many incentives so that as many people as possible can follow this concept. And I really invite everyone to help so that we can implement the energy transition in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56848	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56872	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Minister, you know, as a Tyrolean, of course, I am addressing our most important topic: Transit – but don't worry, I won't blame you for the current subject and problem, of course. But, interestingly, when Mr Hammer speaks out here, it is replicated to colleagues Hafenecker and makes the statement: Well, you could have done it all! – Yes, the former infrastructure minister Norbert Hofer, who was behind me, was in a coalition with the ÖVP for 16 months. [[Abg. Deimek:... has taken a lot further!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I promise you, I'll also leave you this 16 months, and then I'll ask you why you didn't solve all the problems, even in terms of transit – 16 months, that's a damn short time. I'm excited about what you're doing in these 16 months. I really wish you all the best of heart, and once again: I do not blame you for the current situation. What's this about? – In 1991 we had 850 000 transit trips in Tyrol. According to transit contract, we are expected to have a maximum of 1,473 100 transit journeys, and in 2019 we had 2.5 million transit journeys over the Brenner. Now it is “naturally” – under quotation marks – less. We hope that the economic exchange will also take place, but not on the trucks. That's perfectly clear. I have been in politics for a long time, and I have also noticed in the budget discussions with you that the Tyroleans have been holding this cartoon for over 30 years. Without now telling the whole story of the Brenner Base Tunnel – that would be my debut at Weitem and everyone can read it –: The first feasibility study dates back to 1989. Now we write the year 2020! These are 31 years; 31 years in which Tyrolean politics, led by the ÖVP, in whatever constellations, the Tyrolean population has repeatedly promised: We solve the transit problem with the burner base tunnel. So, now 31 years have passed, and last year, on 29. November 2019, a total of 115 kilometres from 230 kilometres, tunnels and accompanying tunnels and so on – exactly half, and we write the year 2020! Now there are delays. There is a processual discussion with the company Porr, which I really regret, because, as an experienced Austrian, one probably has to expect that the construction is massively delayed, and I would have liked to have been able to handle this out of process so that the construction could proceed and at least in 2030 one could open the tunnel. Unfortunately, we will probably not do that, and then we were 40 years on the track – 40 years in which the Tyrolean population was promised: This is the solution to the problem! I'm just asking questions today, I'm not responsible for you; I only have a few questions. This time, the next ten, 15 years, we will have to bridge. We will have to solve the problem. Now on the questions: We have praised the Europe region of Tyrol – and this is always the case whenever it fits –: Why do we have different toll rates in South Tyrol, Tyrol and Trentino, for example, with us high, low there, the transit is profitable? Why are the existing capacities in North-South rail transport not being increased? Why are railway administrations in Germany, Austria and Italy not brought together in transit in order to be able to coordinate this much better? Or to talk to Fritz Gurgiser, the transit champion, the founder of the transit forum: Why not take too little action against the Transitlenkradsclaventum? I could still ask many questions that all would have to be solved so that transit issues can be tackled and that the carotite – the opening of the Brenner base tunnel – can no longer be kept in the nose of the population. Finally – and I have already mentioned this a hundred times in the Tiroler Landtag –: Everything will be of no use to each other if we do not also bring a transfer guarantee – away from the road towards the rail, once the tunnel is there! That should finally be clarified. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56915	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer is the next speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56936	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! At the beginning, I may join Mr Litschauer, who spoke about the forest district and the planned railway projects: As a wine-fourth Member of Parliament, I should also like to speak on this point. One of the hopes we have also found in the ÖBB framework plan is the northwest railway and the Laaer Ostbahn in the sense of a selective two-track extension, which is at least reflected in a planning project – i.e. in an investigation, I would explain it. As a Weinviertler region, we know many projects, which have of course always been in a planning phase, but which unfortunately have also gone on for many years. From our side, of course, from the regional side there is the great request that from the planning phase it will then also come to a construction relatively quickly, because just the wine district is a donor region. In my home district of Hollabrunn alone, 60 percent of workers are commuting, in neighboring districts and in Vienna, and there is, of course, a great concern that situations such as waiting times in the early morning, standing on the train itself, but also the delays that are happening on the railway line belong to history and that they have good connections between Vienna and their home country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In addition to my role as Members of this region, as a member of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalization, I can also say a few words about the UG 34, innovation and technology that you, as Minister of State, are significantly involved in. In fact, we see that innovation, technology and research are topics that can be found in the politics of the Federal Government as a whole and in all departments. It is about deliberately putting emphasis on support policy in order to actively participate in certain developments and, at best, to play a pioneering role. These need not only to be technical in nature, especially in your chapter, we also see that they are very much involved in climate change and the environment. It is about creating a framework for those who like to baffle, research and innovation so that they can find a suitable infrastructure and important partners, and we can, of course, support as public authorities. The whole thing is also a self-interest, which can be said openly: It is about creating an ecosystem and not brakes; an ecosystem with which we can actually meet the upheavals we see on a daily basis, whether in the company's everyday or working day, whether in the area of customer loyalty, ecologisation or technical development. Business as usual is not a promising way to succeed, so it needs a spirit of innovation, and in a time of crisis all the more. What does that mean for the 2021 budget? – In the field of the Minister's task, EUR 100 million is estimated, a total of EUR 560 million is intended for future fields such as artificial intelligence, Industry 4.0, ICT, but programmes to deal with the climate crisis and the Covid-19 crisis are also very important. It is about participating in European initiatives such as the European Space Agency, it is also important to support companies and research institutions in Austria. As Mr Deimek said, the headquarters may not be in Austria – but every company that employs researchers in Austria makes a very important contribution that we can make as a country. [[Abg. Deimek:... improve!]] The topic is also cooperation between science and industry, support for spin-offs from science and implementation of business ideas and initiatives, and, of course, the promotion of start-ups should not be forgotten. Overall, the increase in funds – in your department and in all other departments dealing with research, innovation and technology – is quite positive and means a good way to the future for us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e56979	The next speaker is Mr Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57003	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I looked at Sir David Attenborough's new documentation last night. They may know him, he is a world-famous filmmaker, who has become famous above all by his documentation on the different wonders of nature. I know that you, as government groups, do not accept anything from what we say as opposition – but perhaps you take the recommendation to look at these 90 minutes. Do the favor and watch the film, it is available on Netflix and lasts about 1.5 hours. This documentation is different from his other films that are known. David Attenborough is 94 years old and describes the film as his legacy, with which he wants to stir up and show what to do, based on his own life. 94 years, this is admittedly a long life – but how the world has changed in this very short period of time! He strongly warns of what will happen in the life of those who are now coming to the world if we do not act in the next few years and do not change anything. As a young Member, I would like to discuss this climate budget from two main points of view. Firstly, the question arises whether what we will decide here today will make Austria better by 2050. The second question is whether our children, our grandchildren – your grandchildren – will thank you for it or curse you for it. From these points of view, this budget is a huge disappointment for me. I don't want to polemise, it's true, it's included an increase – but I want to talk straight away about why this increase in weitem is not what we need. It is very disappointing in this respect, because many people, including me and us, have put hopes in the greens on this point, that there is more to it that there are larger litters possible, but that has not happened. Ecological tax reform? - Miss. End of environmental subsidies? - Miss. Real structural reforms? - Miss. From the boy's point of view, the whole budget is a failure, and I'm slowly tearing the patient thread. The Greens have pasted in the election campaign: “Who would choose the climate?” and they also promised to act decisively in this area. I've said it before: For that they have thrown all other beliefs overboard, for example on fundamental and human rights issues, climate protection is far too little. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is therefore too little because this increase – even if it is naturally recognized – is a PR-gag with homeopathic doses. I'd like to show you: This 220 million euros increase - - no, I just wanted to say that with pensions, that's so ridiculous: [[Abg. Lukas Hammer:... Comparison with pensions?]] 20 billion euros for pensions and only 220 million euros for climate protection. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A comparison with the environmentally harmful subsidies EUR 4.5 billion for environmentally harmful subsidies, EUR 220 million more in the climate budget. [[a chart and the title “Environmental subsidies: EUR 4.5 billion – Climate budget EUR +0.22 billion”]] Who would choose the climate? [[The speaker holds the back of the panel with the title “Who would choose the climate?” in height.]] – I don’t think the greens, I don’t think that’s enough. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: The billions for public transport have forgotten, haven't they?]] The Greens and, of course, the ÖVP are abandoning the boys, namely those boys who are in any case most burdened by the crisis. They are the first ones in the establishments to be released. The Wifo already predicts that it will hit the boys more than 2008, 2009 as regards job entry, and the education and training systems have also gone down during the Corona crisis. I don't understand one thing: In the Corona crisis we all see, there is a danger, there we all have to do something together – but in the climate crisis, which is a much larger crisis that threatens us existentally, I do not see this commonness. Why does the ecological tax reform consume in a working group? Why do we still favor fossil service cars, and why is the diesel still so cheap in Austria that we are considered Europe's cheap gas station? Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you still have four years ahead of you during this legislative period: Send now, set up reforms now and please act!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57082	Mrs Astrid Rössler has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57106	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Values Advisors! If the major environmental issues are negotiated here and today, and if we are also happy to report on the successes and growth in the budget, the issue of ecology should not be missed either. If something has really become aware of us in the last months of the Corona crisis, it is the fact that an intact nature is currently the only one we have. An intact nature in a world in which so much has been awakened is the only source that we can now regenerate, in which we can find relaxation, confidence and strength and, in a difficult time, become more uncomplicated again. It is therefore particularly important and a highlight of this budget that the Biodiversity Fund is being created again, because preserving the intact nature is one of the major tasks of future generations. We are not only in a climate crisis, we are also fighting a biodiversity crisis. Great recognition, Mrs. Minister, that the Biodiversity Fund will be set up with 2021 and can start with 5 million euros! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Why are the diversity and, above all, the basis of intact nature in danger? The colorfulness and beauty are losing us, they are tearing us between our fingers. Of the 68 000 species that make up the diversity and beauty of Austrian nature, 80 percent of the habitats are in poor or poor condition, and 80 percent of animal and plant species are in poor or poor condition. In fact, despite these wonderful foundations, Austria is in a strongly declining process of diversity. It is lost, and in the EU comparison we are even in the lead. It's more than unfortunate, it's terrifying, it's a danger that this most important resource is lost right now, as it's about health and also about the functionality of nature. In addition to the country's nature conservation competences, the Biodiversity Fund is therefore a very important, big step in order to step up research in two priorities next year, to collect and improve the data bases, because we need these foundations to counter them. We need the knowledge of the key types, we need the knowledge of the renaturation potential in order to restore soil – in the truest sense of the word – again. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] The second focus of this biodiversity fund is to carry information, awareness-raising, appreciation and knowledge back into the population, especially in the younger generations, because we realize that much of the natural knowledge is threatened to be lost. Who else knows the troll flower? Who knows the fire salamander? Who knows the lousy frog? Who else sees him when these species become so rare and are lost? The colorfulness, the beauty is to preserve, nature is currently the most important resource we have to recover and gain confidence even in these difficult times. The Biodiversity Fund is an important step in this direction. He's well equipped, he'll be doing his job. welcome, he will be able to take with him, especially the youth, the next generation, and help us create this trend turnaround. Mrs. Minister, the BMK should rethink his name. It is not a ministry of climate protection, it is the ministry of great acts of power, because the great trends that are to be overcome in this ministry – the climate crisis, the traffic change and the transport crisis as well as the biodiversity crisis – are in your hands. I admire the courage to act as a force and also the visible way in which you vote against it. This also creates confidence for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57164	Mr Lukas Hammerzu has spoken on an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57191	Mr President. Before that, Parliamentary Shetty of the NEOS has held a sign that the budget for climate protection next year is EUR 0.22 billion. - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: The budget available to the Ministry of Climate Change next year is 5,856 billion euros and not 0,22 euros. The UG 43 alone: Climate, environment and energy, 681 million euros are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57218	The next speaker is Mr Alois Schroll. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57243	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear spectators! Yes, the budget is about financing. In the final effect, it is always the same question: Who pays it? – In the energy sector, this question can easily be answered, as the Federal Budget plays only a secondary role in energy policy. I do not think that will change in principle in 2021 either. One thing I would like to say today as an energy speaker, because it is important to us: Around four million households consume around 25 percent of the electricity throughout Austria with around 300,000 SMEs; 45 percent of total electricity costs are paid. Apart from that, I also tell you why the Federal Budget is secondary in energy policy. The focus is on the development of renewable energy sources, which, of course, is very, very good. However, given the planned changes in the energy system to renewable energy, significant, significant funding from the budget needs to be provided. Much has been announced, there are also significantly more budget resources available for energy, the environment and climate protection, but God's great announced annual climate protection billion is unfortunately not much left. The fair distribution of costs will now be ensured through the central renewable development law. Let me just say something about this. To remember: ==References== January 2021 should enter into force this law, this great throw as a package. Conlusio: Despite the long advance period, it will become a small litter, a rooster, and it will only be picked out a sub-area, namely the net reserve, which is still today This is a matter for the Commission. Client policy – in my opinion the black/Turkish side – is welcomed. This time it unfortunately goes to God's expense on the environment and the economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The way to 100 percent electricity from renewable energy goes into stocking and the industry and the economy lacks planning security. This is a further delay in the necessary investment. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the network reserve needs to be dealt with and regulated urgently – that is to say, a central requirement of SPÖ – but not in the form of an energy policy and legal bottleneck. Mrs. Minister, let me give you something: We need a whole package of laws – the announced big throw – and that quickly. It is important that the EAG is finally on course. After many years of waiting, after delay by Federal Minister Köstinger, the e-branch has more than earned it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57294	Mrs Tanja Graf is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57318	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! Let me start by saying that Austria is a country of mountains and wonderful regions. Austria is also a country that uses the natural resources for energy generation. In particular, hydropower has made a very important contribution in recent decades. For us, the careful handling of the resource of nature is at the top of our minds, which is why the chapter on climate change and environmental protection is also of great importance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have therefore set ourselves a clear goal in the government programme: We want to make Austria a pioneer in climate change and environmental protection. We are now continuing this common path consistently, for I am telling you that: Intelligent climate protection with home understanding and a successful economic policy are no contrasts, they complement each other, because innovation and investment in both areas strengthen the location of Austria, our economy and secure and create new jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the budget: Mrs Bundesminister Geessler said it earlier, it is a climate protection budget for Austria. The investment package for 2021 is in the UG 43: Climate, environment and energy, at almost 681 million euros. Mr Shetty, this very reform that you are calling for here, we are now taking place, because this sum has never been available before. This increase refers to just EUR 220 million compared to 2020. That's a good plus, you can say, 47.6 percent. The Federal Minister also mentioned it on Tuesday: This budget gives future and prospects. We will ensure the future by investing 350 million euros in the rehabilitation offensive, with which we deal with the boiler and the thermal renovation. This means another step towards climate protection. This also creates perspectives, perspectives for our businesses and for the labour market, because it is our businesses with their skilled workers who will make this exchange. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] We also provide for the future by further expanding renewable energies. In addition, the current project: the Renewable Development Act with a volume of 1 billion euros. Yes, Mr Schroll, it is true that we will not have the EAG in this Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but that has two main reasons: The first is that we have over 100 opinions, which we take seriously and which we also want to draw up. The second is: We also need to clarify state aid issues of the EU Commission. This is also an important step. We don't want to put anything on the market that we have to fix again. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] There is already the principle that we put quality ahead of speed. I can assure you: Our Secretary of State, together with the Minister, has negotiated this package throughout the summer. It's a good package, but at the end of the day we want to get out with quality. Because you addressed the subject of client policy: I can assure you, you can never divide the ÖVP, because one thing is quite clear with us: [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] We have a clear, uniform line. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And, as the Farmers' Federation, the Agriculture, says, the word "economy" is included in agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] To sum up, I can say: This budget or all of these measures provide incentives, create numerous perspectives and opportunities for the labour market. This is a good program for our location in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57418	The next speaker is Mr Walter Rauch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57442	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Graf, there is no need to divide the ÖVP! It's so cemented in her opinions that you can go over there, I think, with a tank. [[Rejoicing with representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The green minister in this area is currently aware of this. – Mrs Minister, with all appreciation, the budget is fine from the figures, which cannot be criticized. You have only one problem: You can't implement it because all the measures you announce are blocked and incemented by the ÖVP. That's the main problem. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] How do I get on it? – Quite simply, you have announced the plastic fee, but not implemented, you have announced the 1-2-3 ticket, but you have not implemented it. What does it fail to do? – On the ÖVP, that’s quite simply the facts. [[Abg. Anger: Thank you.]] In your sector too, I would think about it sometime after a year, instead of – a colleague of mine has mentioned it before – for 16 months to blame us for the fact that many things have not been implemented. [[towards green sign]] In the meantime, they are also in office for 12 months. So for four months, you still have to implement all that you have announced. So I'm excited about what you're going to do in the next four months. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A few points: Mr Weratschnig has today addressed, among other things, the shuttle fee and the new mobility allowance. They always arrive with new facts and data and announce something, for example the CO2 tax, and then in the implementation the ÖVP blockes – thank God in this case, because that would be a mistake if you were to burden the commuters even today. In rural areas, infrastructure has not yet been expanded. It will take years to reach the level of cities, so it would be a mistake to burden rural areas with a CO2 tax as well. That's one. The other – returning to the fact-based figures –: We pay about 180 million euros to the EU in criminal tax for plastic, we pay more than before to the Green Climate Fund, despite Corona crisis, now 130 million euros – the five-fold. Despite Corona crisis, we are spending much more money in these areas, which we do not think is necessary. We operate climate protection at home, in Austria! If we create support systems, we will take measures to stimulate our economy, boost the rehabilitation programme, and thus support individual budgets to promote the expansion of the renewable energy sector! That's all right, but we're still spending much more. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Lukas Hammer and Weratschnig.]] All the measures I mentioned earlier, which you announce, are blocked and incedrated by this group over there. [[in the direction of ÖVP]] I wonder how you're going to implement all of this. In this context, I would also like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] So much for the request. At the same time, in order to return to the budget, you have a positive approach to revenue. Revenue from emissions trading is very, very positive, but the budget service of the House says that they are too positive or at least insecure. Between revenue and expenditure this correlates a little because you represent the revenue very, very positive, but at the same time it goes hand in hand with trade and especially with the future economic performance uncertainty – we do not know how it will develop, at least now it looks very bad. I hope that these forecasts will not come here or there. The revenue in this area is therefore too high in relation to how they are projected – that is what the budget service here in Parliament says. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Lukas Hammer and Weratschnig.]] One more thing about colleague Hammer – this is important to me –: We do not deny this corona crisis, even the virus. We also do not deny all the possible symptoms that result from this, we do not deny everything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] – No, quite realistically, we only have another access. We're not impoverished in any way. We are just saying that these measures, which you and you are taking, are significantly overburdened. [[towards Greens and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: The colleague has a so-called...!]] They're destroying the economy in this country. They destroy the social fabric of this country. They're blocking our schools. You're gonna lock our kids away! You destroy the social system in this country, only to cement your actions accordingly, and you do in the end effect completely the opposite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] The biggest crime you're causing is that you're forcing our children to stay at home so that they can't maintain their social contacts, can't be properly taught to their friends. That's the crime you commit that causes you, and you don't need to point out to anyone else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I'll tell you one more thing: The common sense is replaced by the dictatorship of tolerance that you display. On Monday, you should lock up the schools! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57642	Mr Michel Reimon came to speak. Please, honourable Member. I must add that the motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57666	If the FPÖ first makes an application for international climate change payments and then talks about common sense, it is difficult to get into a speech. Nevertheless, that's exactly what it's supposed to be about. Climate protection is an international matter, a European matter, and it must be pointed out as a European speaker. The payments exchanged with the Union are part of a – quite dry – post, which is actually being dealt with only tomorrow, but I thought we should talk about climate change. In the course of the Corona crisis, it will be decided on the largest aid package the Union has ever had: 700 billion euros over the next seven years. This is an Austrian budget, which is paid every year at European level, and then someone comes here and says: Delete the international payments! . I am almost unwitting about how little you know about climate change and environmental policy when you make yourself here and talk about it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This package is mainly concerned with climate change and environmental protection. Far over 30 percent will be ecological measures: Energy measures, transport measures and very strong modernisation and digitalisation measures for public administration, for businesses. They are encouraged to rely more on digital techniques and to do less about transport and travel. This is about hundreds of billions of euros in the coming years, which will not only protect the environment, but will also revive the economy, which suffers massively from this corona crisis. It is the largest investment programme to save the European economy, if this Corona crisis is hopefully settled next year, and you want to delete this, a 700 billion euro programme that will revive the economy and create jobs in Austria! A little more hostile to workers than your proposal, Mr Rauch, I have not heard in this House. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] 700 billion euros you want to remove the European workers. It is a project in such a scale that we need to discuss it here when discussing the Austrian national budget. The Austrian national measures alone do not make this possible, we are aware of that. That is why we are committed to ensuring that the Austrian national measures are embedded in this European system, so that we take away these incentives, that we take care of how we can apply for them. Now I have to say five more times: Thank you, Mrs. Minister, how great you are and how great you are! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] But it is actually the biggest step we can take. One thing you have to say: If five speakers from the Liberals and the Socialists tell us in a row, unless not enough, I think it is interesting that you are now saying this out of the opposition role, because on Friday, five days ago, the European Parliament voted on one of these packages, the InvestEU package. The rapporteur was a Social Democratic, and we have not managed to bring social democrats, liberals and European Conservatives to increase climate change regulation in this package. We wanted to boost the standard once again, from 30 percent climate action to 40 percent, but we did not manage to get the Liberals and the Social Democrats to give us a majority. [[Abg. Listen, listen!]] That was Friday. On this Thursday, you'll sit here and say: Oh, my God, we'd be if we could. Shit! You could've done it four days ago. You didn't do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57721	Mr Helmut Brandstätter came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57745	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I want to start with a praise, in difficult times like this one cannot praise enough. The budget for climate research amounting to EUR 100 million is important. This is a lot, and I can only hope that it will be used properly, because, of course, we know that at the moment we are talking about many other topics and too little about the climate problem that will remain. That is why it is, of course, essential to invest properly in research in this area, because – and that is, I think, my biggest concern at the moment – uncertainty is growing in all areas. We are seeing a growing unemployment, and there will be a structural change. There would have been no covid, but he would have been slower. It will now come much faster, and that means, of course, that we also need to get much better in the field of modern technologies, and I am therefore in the field of artificial intelligence. Unfortunately, I have to say critically: Yes, it is planned, the great overall planning for artificial intelligence, but we still miss, for example, in the field of universities; I know that is not your responsibility. We have a single one. The Chair of Artificial Intelligence in Austria, and that is, of course, too little for Weitem. We have also talked too little about how we will use them. I have also seen that 1.2 million euros are intended for an idea lab for artificial intelligence, but we all – and I believe, even those who deal with it – do not yet know how this will change our lives. My greatest fear is that there will be fear of it: Fear that machines will decide about us that machines talk to each other, make a difference, what will happen to us and what we won't do with. I have arrived at a very crucial point, namely, fear. In politics, there is a great deal of fear in many countries – wherever populist government is governed. We too have been working in the Covid crisis with enormous fear – 100,000 dead – and then someone has seen a light at the end of some tunnel, and then all of a sudden the great fear has come again. I would really ask you, and in that case not only as a competent minister, but also as a green politician, because I hope that this does not fit into your thinking – I have given up hope at the ÖVP –: Stop with this authoritarian thinking that should spread fear! We're not going on with fear. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] You can suppress people for a time alone with fear, yes, you can, but I think it's extremely dangerous, and there I am again on the topic of artificial intelligence. I have already shown here a beautiful book by Kai-Fu Lee on artificial intelligence, China and Silicon Valley, in which Europe appears on half a page. Our problem with artificial intelligence is our data protection, also our fear that data will be misused, but we must work on it. Of course, they must not be abused. Without infinite data, however, there is no artificial intelligence, which is also clear. I now have to deal with the issue of Europe budget, Mr Reimon. On the one hand, I agree, quite right: Of course, we need this joint European effort, but on the other hand it will be difficult with Hungary and the Poles, and I can only turn to the EIA once again. We will have to say to Mr Orbán: You play on the basis of European values and the rule of law belongs to it, or you don't play with it. – That would, of course, be a drama for Europe, I do not wish to be quite the opposite, but to be presented by Orbán and the Poles would be the last thing. Of course, what Orbán does is also antiscientific. Although we can say that we are happy to get Central European University to Vienna, part of this authoritarian policy is of course also to take action against science, against research, and a part of authoritarian policy is to lock schools. Yes, the schools are locked, people are told: Please don't bring your children, and then you won't even let them buy books. Now I really have to disappoint you. Today I have some great books with: an orbán biography that you should read, because there you see how a Communist youth becomes a liberal, then an authoritarian politician; a wonderful new book by Pammesberger, Rudi Anschober has written the foreword. I would have liked to show them to you, but no, I am now making a book strike; this is really a great disappointment and you have to suffer there now. Maybe it's different next time, but at the moment there's no books. Finally open the bookstores! At least give them the opportunity to sell books! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ, as well as to the members of the FPÖ.]] Now it says again: He's making advertising for it. – I don’t have any shares in a bookstore, and if so, it wouldn’t make me rich, because these are companies that don’t make crazy profits. But they are so essential because they sell spiritual food. Mr Anschober has already announced on Twitter: He'll think about it. Please give him a shock that he is thinking about something happening, that there is an opportunity to come to books even in the coming weeks of the lockdown. I also have a very good book about the power of language, about political Framing et cetera. I'm not showing it right now, maybe next time. That's where you have to guess who this is from. In this sense: Please we fight for education, for science and research and for fear! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57840	Mr Mag has made an actual correction. Dr. Rudolf Tashnerzu word reported. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57867	Mr President. High house! Mr Brandstätter said that fear had been worked with and that the fear of an authoritarian regime was the intention here in Austria. - That's completely wrong. It was only worked out that we were careful. Caution is something other than fear.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57891	Finally, I have been criticized for allowing word messages that are not really correct – that was not one. It was today the second actual correction, which was not really one, but I think, so strict we do not have to be. [[Abg. Kassinger: A subjective opinion!]] Next speaker: Hermann Gahr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57926	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Never before has so much money been invested in the expansion of rail and railway infrastructure in Austria. The ÖBB Framework Plan from 2021 to 2026 states that we are investing 17.5 billion euros in this respect. As a Tyrolean, I am of course pleased that we invest 3.4 billion euros in Tyrol. This is a contribution to achieving climate targets, which has already been mentioned several times today. It is a contribution to improve mobility and the quality of mobility as a whole, and an important contribution to enable the shift of goods from road to rail. It has already been stressed by colleagues Hauser today: We've got 2.5 million freight trucks on the burner, and the pain limit is reached. So we need the necessary infrastructure to carry out relocations. In order to address projects: It is invested in many railway stations, in Tyrol, colleague Weratschnig, in Schwaz station, it is invested in the freight terminal in Wörgl, in Hall is invested, in Jenbach a new park-and-ride plant is created. I think it is quite, very important that we also invest in making the use of the railway possible. For example, it is clear from the framework plan that there should be 7 000 parking spaces for park-and-ride use by 2026 in Tyrol, so these are very targeted investments and very concrete approaches. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Weratschig.]] Thank you, Mr Weratschnig. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] A project that is especially dear to my heart and of course of the highest priority for us Tyroleans is the Brenner Base Tunnel, in which – which has already been mentioned today – there are still setbacks – currently with the construction site in Pfons. I beg you politely, Mrs Federal Minister, we need a new award as soon as possible, so that the construction can move forward quickly. It is very much about, quite simply, the need for this infrastructure to shift traffic. But we also need pressure on Germany in terms of access routes, and a good exchange with Italy. In total, Mrs Bundesminister, we should, as I believe, put very clearly in the focus: The Brenner Base Tunnel is a European project from Berlin to Palermo, a so-called TEN project, because – we have already heard this today – we have no limits on traffic, we need European solutions. Overall, it's a challenge. We invest in the future, in mobility, in climate protection. We need, I believe, a joint shoulder closure and invite everyone to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57977	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e57999	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners! Before I get to the subject, I would like to make a comment on Mr Reimon, who is always very busy with the SPÖ. In just one by-catch: If you are not willing to let people retire after 45 years of work, the FPÖ does not need to accuse workers of indifference. Please come in front of your own door! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now on the subject: Mrs Minister, I am not prepared to say that your budget is a positive throw compared to what we have experienced in the previous period, for example, and that there is really a will to take action in the field of climate protection. Nevertheless, not all gold is what shines – of course you know it yourself. That is what the Green Group knows. I would like to draw a specific point as an example, namely the 1-2-3 ticket. I'm sending in advance that it's of course a great thing when the 1-2-3 ticket comes, even if it only starts with 3. The question is: Will the 1-2-3 ticket ever come? – At the end of the day, the ÖVP will probably decide over there. But let's assume that the 1-2-3 ticket will really come and start with 3. Even then it must be noted that this is primarily – and of course I am pleased for all those who have been commuting and using public transport – a progress for all those who, for example, live on the West Railway or on the South Railway and already use public transport now in order to be able to get their counterparts there for some time. Not solved is the question for those who still have to travel by car and it will be in the future, because there are still flawful connections where the train is leaving. [[Abg. Letschauer: We in the Waldviertel...!]] Austria is simply a rural region and, if you want to, a very quarried region. That is why, above all, in the rural regions, we need a connection to the transport hubs, if we really want to, first of all, the 1-2-3 ticket to work and, second, because of less CO2 emissions, a climate relief is taking place, because people change from car to public transport. That is missing, and as long as this is not guaranteed, it will unfortunately be too little to rejoice over the 1-2-3 ticket because many are still excluded from this measure, namely all those who do not have any public connection even now in their communities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why: Yeah, great that there is the ticket, but if we go next door to the public Transport does not grow much more, it is a minority programme. – Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58058	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58079	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Oh, my God! I want to start with a German philosopher who says: "On the future of man, nature decides how man decides about it." That is why we have a budget that contributes to nature, the environment and climate protection. It is a budget that is sustainable in the future and is looking to the next generations. We've heard it today: For climate and environmental protection, EUR 680.6 million will be available next year. This is an increase of 47.6%. We have provided sufficient resources with this budget so that our people, our businesses can invest in environmental protection. This is a very good thing, because with the 14 percent investment premium this is guaranteed. In addition, EUR 124 million has been made available for environmental promotions in the country and for the reform offensive. This is also necessary and therefore important when it comes to thermal renovations, the heating boiler exchange, which really bring us forward. For renewable energy, for the climate and energy funds, there is an additional EUR 61.5 million, and there is a plus of EUR 20 million for energy policy, which relates to district heating and district heating. Sustainable nature and environmental protection is provided with 36.6 million euros, covering diversity and biodiversity funds. With these funds we do a lot for our environment, for climate protection, and at the same time they are a turbo for the economy and, above all, for the regional economy. In Austria we have many pioneers in the field of renewable energy. We are leading in environmental and climate technologies and have a lot of green jobs. The Renewable Development Act is an important step that will bring us even further forward in climate protection. I would like to thank the Minister and, above all, the Secretary of State for this, but I would like to say two more words: We have huge opportunities in the field of photovoltaics, and property owners, homeowners and farmers have the will to make a major contribution to this. We have shown a huge expansion potential in the Renewable Act. The problem, however, is the wire network, because I hear more and more people that they cannot or may not be connected because the cross-sections are too small. In this respect, I would urgently ask for solutions. A second technology that would have a positive impact on the uneven distribution of the feed would be the green gas, which is currently not taken into account in the Renewable Act. I would also like to ask you to let this happen immediately, because it would be very important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My speaking time is already at the end, but I would like to make one more point. Public transport is an important contribution to climate protection, and, of course, as a forest-fourther, I am particularly pleased that we in the ÖBB framework plan provide for the expansion of the Franz-Josefs railway. This is a very important thing, because the Franz-Josefs train is the heart of public transport in the forest district. However, I would like to add that for the future we must also provide for upgrades so that we can accelerate, because then it will be even more attractive for people to drive the Franz-Josefs-Bahn to Vienna. – In this sense: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58133	Member of the Forgeblechner is hereby reported.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58155	Mr President. Minister! Dear Seers! We constantly hear how important the fight against climate change is. For a year the Greens have been in the government, and the climate is still not saved. [[General hustle and bustle.]] It looks as if the Greens had learned from the ÖVP: Notices and little implementation. What is not yet known to the public is the enormously important task of agriculture in reducing CO2. Our farmers are responsible for the production of oxygen and the binding of CO2 in the soil or in the forest. Nobody else can. Without their work, we cannot achieve these climate objectives. Unfortunately, the financial situation – and again this page is responsible – is devastating in agriculture. [[towards ÖVP]] The farmers stand with their backs on the wall. It is necessary to create incentives and support them so that they can continue to deliver these important achievements. Minister! [[The speaker put a table on which a rural cultural landscape can be seen, with the title “Only farmers bind CO2” and “This performance must be honoured” on the speaker’s desk.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, we have to take money into our hands. Let us together create incentives so that farmers can continue to fulfil their important task! This not only saves our small-structured agriculture, no, we can also make a valuable contribution to climate change and environmental protection. The soil, which binds significant amounts of carbon, is often too little with regard to its climate-related importance. This situation must be brought closer to the public. It is a fact that the CO2 is no longer bound in wood and wood products without forestry, but is diverted back into the environment. It is a fact that the land-building measures of farmers are binding on CO2. Any Agriculture and forestry is thus active in climate change and environmental protection. It is also a fact that each farmer operates more environmental protection and climate protection than any self-proclaimed environmental and climate protection. Our agriculture and forestry operates environmental and climate protection, which must also be assessed as such. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, we have the chance that we will finally move forward and finally let your announcements follow up. Environmental protection and climate protection with home mind is recommended. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58295	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled, has sufficient support and is therefore under negotiation. Members of the European Parliament have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58327	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to say to my previous speaker: My trust in this government is boundless. But if you want to trust the Greens to save the climate in a year, there's only one thing to say: We do the possible, miracles take a little longer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I can congratulate you on the overall budget of your department. Mr Gahr has already praised the advantages of mobility and the objectives you are seeking, and I can still depend on the regional railway. I also thank you for the budget. We will of course use this in the Zillertalbahn as well as in a good way, so that we can move on there too. If I look at your budget in the UG 43, climate, environment and energy – 681 million euros, that's almost 1 percent of the total budget, in the following years an increase that goes in the direction of two and a half times – then also: great congratulations! That's a lot of money you can work with. In principle, I have already told you a few times that you are acting cleverly, and I have claimed several times. If I say that it is going in the wrong direction, namely in the NGOs close to you, please do not take this as a praise, because I believe that they want to blow up the procedures rather in terms of approvals. When we look at the facts: Our common goal is to reduce CO2, decarbonisation, which is the red and white-red project we are taking on. Look You're looking at the nude numbers! The whole energy requirement of Austria based on the fossil energy sources oil, natural gas, coal is about 199 000 gigawatt hours. An exit from these fossil energy sources in all sectors, namely in transport, in industry – I only say Voest, H2, i.e. hydrogen – but also in buildings and so on, leads to an additional need for other energy sources, which is logical. If you now assume that this requirement is to be covered by electricity from renewable sources, we need 182 hydropower plants in the range Freudnau or 31,000 wind turbines or, if we want to make the Tyrolean strategy and do it only with PV, that is, 80 percent of the roofs and four football fields per municipality. Is that possible? - I don't think so. But let us continue to look at how long the necessary authorisation procedures will take for such projects that we need in particular in the field of electricity generation! The power lines in Salzburg: 76 months, 6.3 years; 380 kV line in the Styria and Burgenland, Rotenturm: 6.3 years; the Kaunertal power plant took eight years, the Kühtai storage power plant another ten years, and when I produce tumping in the Ötztal, it took more than 12 years. So how can the need for new sources be combined with these already sluggish procedures? – I leave that to your imagination, I just think we should work to ensure that procedures are more efficient, shorter and more successful so that we can generate the necessary energy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The big question remains: Where does the necessary energy come from, so that we can get out of the carbon age? I ask you to work to ensure that the permits go faster, better and more efficiently, because these are in fact the most electrifying questions of the present! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58375	Mr Ecker has been mentioned in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58397	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! The debate on the research budget talks a lot about new technologies, about innovative research projects, but it is often forgotten about the agricultural sector. We also need to look to the future in the sense of local farmers, especially from the point of view of consumers. How do we protect local agriculture from climate change? How do we minimize pests in our domestic forests and keep diseases away from the fields and the harvest? As a glowing fighter for a glyphosate ban, it is a special concern for me to provide Mrs. Minister with more money for research from alternatives to pesticides. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This money needs not only at EU level, but also completely, urgently in Austria. We cannot continue to follow the path of the ÖVP, which is that: the response to climate change is an increased use of pesticides in agriculture. For example, we are losing the title "fine shop" in Europe faster than we love. There are already good technical alternatives, Mrs Minister, and I know that on the question of the total ban on glyphosate we agree, only the large blockers are unfortunately in the ranks of the ÖVP. A further approach must be to develop digitalisation in agriculture. This does not only facilitate the work of farmers. New technologies can make better use of resources and promote environmental protection. This also reduces the use of pesticides and increases yield security. Let's look at our neighbours, especially in Switzerland! There are good alternatives to the use of pesticides, which are mainly technical. Summary: Mrs Minister, it takes more money for agricultural research to make our local agriculture fit for the future. It is important for all of us to have healthy food on our plates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58445	Mrs Pfurtscheller has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58466	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the beginning of my speech, I would like to repeat very briefly to Mr Hauser, who, at the beginning of his speech, claimed that the FPÖ would never have denied the danger of the corona virus. I need to remind him of the interview that his party leader gave on 13.5. in the “Press”. Because he said that Corona was just a flu virus and not more dangerous. [[Abg. Hauser: I never said that!]] Now it can be that the FPÖ has learned something about it, we are all pleased, that is rarely enough, it would only be nice if the FPÖ were to act accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to start by thanking the ÖBB passenger transport sector for the really very reliable connections that have always worked very well despite the crisis or corona period, and even once – I think that is very rarely said – for the excellent service of the Catererer. You feel really well cared for when you drive the train. You have made sure that these connections have worked in the lockdown one. This cost us a little money, 53.7 million euros for the West Railway and the ÖBB together, and unfortunately it looks like there has to be an emergency award due to the Lockdown two again. You mentioned that earlier in your speech. But I think the money is very well arranged. There are simply very, very many users who are extremely grateful that the clock is being observed, that you can really get into a train every hour and that public transport, as it were, does not get to die. The second part of my speech refers to the objective of effect number 2, which has already been addressed by Mr Litschauer and Mr Himmelbauer. The aim is to ensure mobility, especially in order to ensure mobility in rural regions. Of course, as is currently the case along the Franz-Josefs railway in the Waldviertel, there is a great joy when the rail network is expanded. I come from a district where railway development is still in the future and where cars are simply necessary. That is why I am very glad that you make more money available for e-mobility, it is a total of 46 million euros for the purchase of e-cars and also for the expansion of charging infrastructure. I think that's really important. With us, we have no other way of challenging the last mile – in the specific case it is actually 50 kilometers. That is why we are very grateful if efforts are also intensified in this direction. I would like to ask you to continue to support and perhaps even more innovative car sharing models and take-away platforms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58509	Mr Köllner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a beautiful country, not necessarily but well-known for large land resources. However, we have a very important raw material, and it is in the minds of people in our country. Especially in times of the largest pandemic for about 100 years, it appears how important research and development are. Neither Austria nor other countries can afford to stop the country several times. Therefore, it will be necessary for the wise minds in our country to be given timely and sufficient resources to be needed, for example, for the rapid development of a vaccine or a medicine. Our goal must be to belong to the international innovation leaders and not to the innovation followers. But we tend to think, because what is missing in Austrian research is a clear growth path. If the additional funds are out of the international research fund, research is also less money available – and we cannot achieve the high goals, ladies and gentlemen. Especially in the present situation, research does not require a spasm, but a meaningful investment. The climate problem has also not disappeared due to the virus, even if the Fridays-for-future movement is currently somewhat in the background. But less money also means that research for powerful batteries, for example – keyword: E-cars – into the floors. I think you should, on the one hand, question your input, but also ask yourself where you would like to go in the field of research and innovation at all. What's the goal? If we want to be one of the leaders in these areas, we will definitely need more effort. We boys, Mrs. Minister, are counting on you during these times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the end of the day, there's another sentence on mobility: Yes, a climate ticket is a very important incentive for ecological change in public transport. We welcome this, as it actually does – Mr Kollross has referred to it. Please note, however, that it is fair for the donorship and that it takes into account federal injustices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58570	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58591	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be brief Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Climate protection is one of the priorities of this government and this is clearly reflected in the budget. More than EUR 1 billion will be available over the next few years in addition to environmental and climate protection, and additional EUR 1.4 billion will be invested in mobility. This is also necessary, because we have a lot to do with the government programme in this area: the 1-2-3 climate ticket, 100 per cent electricity from renewable energy sources by 2030, a land protection strategy for energy saving, and we invest more than ever in the expansion of public transport, especially in rural areas. The time will come again when we will travel by train through Austria and Europe in summer, in which we will travel between the place of study and at home by train. I am particularly pleased, as an Upper Austrian Member, about the new technical university in my federal state, to be the subject of study. The new TU will be a central building block in that Austria remains a top region in research. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] This is particularly important in times like this and above all right, because every euro for digitization, education and research is absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58633	Member of the Seemayer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58655	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, it is good if more budget is available for mobility and therefore also for the expansion of public transport, even if currently more and more work is being done in the home office and students, students, students, stay at home because the schools are locked up – a bit locked up, we have already learned today, but they should not go. However, the time will come again when you will be more and more commuting to the workplace, to the school or to the university. Many commuts every day. Of course, whether this commuting can be as climate-friendly as possible depends on several factors: What transport is used in principle? Is the use of public transport possible at all? Is there any connection between the place of residence or the workplace to public transport? What are the working hours of the companies? – This is a very important factor. Does public transport at the beginning and the end of the working day get by, and what does it look like with waiting times? Long waiting times, of course, are difficult when it comes to deciding whether to drive publicly or to take the car. Only the least live directly next to the train station or next to a stop, so the use of several transports is often required. The expansion of park-and-ride facilities plays an important role in this. If one remembers only some of the situations surrounding the railway stations, I think it is urgently necessary to deal with this. This is also shown in the budget. However, not only should the parking of your own car be possible without long parking, but it also more often raises the question: Where do I put my bike? More and more people have switched to e-bikes and therefore to more expensive wheels and ask themselves the question where they can store their bike safely and securely. Mrs Minister, under the motto of bike-and-ride in the Committee It has been announced that investments will also be made. I think that is urgently necessary. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bürstmayr.]] But whatever is more and more to be observed – I notice this at Linzer Bahnhof – is that many use two bicycles and public transport. You drive from the place of residence to the train station, then you drive from the train station and the second bike to the workplace, because this goes through the city faster. That's quite normal and that's good. It is, of course, a problem if someone wants to take the bike with public transport. To take bicycles, I think we need innovative solutions. Whether the commuting by public transport is as climate-friendly as possible also applies to transport itself. An investment in the electrification of the still powerless railway lines is of course necessary, and decarbonisation of the bus fleets is not only an investment in climate protection, it also brings orders for our businesses and thus secures jobs. This is urgently needed, which is what we need to do now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58703	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58724	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the climate, the environment and energy breakdown, 2021 680.6 million euros are spent, and that is a good thing. It is good that steps are taken to counter climate change. The renewed budget increase underlines this. It is also good that despite the current crisis, impulses are being set in these areas, because climate policy is also a labour market policy. It is good that the measures will strengthen the bridges to people – whether through consultation or through support. The Renewable Development Act will reform eco electricity promotion. We need to use all possibilities to use our raw materials. We have a wide mix of energy sources – whether it be water, sun, wind or biomass. By restrictions, we must not develop any possibilities in the field of renewable energy forms. The Renewable Development Act is a driving force for our society, our economy, our labour market and our regions. In order to achieve the objective of climate neutrality, we also need to look at the non-electric area, which is at least 70 to 80 percent. There are also considerably more funds for the renovation offensive and the exchange of boilers. Those who build or renovate a building today decide on the energy consumption of the next decades. Private households, businesses and municipalities are supported in the area, because everyone can contribute to the energy transition. Finally, it is up to us to lay the foundation stone for the next generations. The small and the big measures are therefore: Everyone and everyone can contribute with his and her behavior, with his and their decisions. This is supported in a variety of ways, and this is for me a land-based, honest and forward-looking climate policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58758	Mr Scharzenberger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58784	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners in front of the screens! In these days, we will decide whether we can control the virus – whether we control it or whether our health system is overburdened. Still in summer, many have criticized our Chancellor's statements as panic-making, but now it is really God's way that we all know someone who is at least seriously ill. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is due to our excellent health system that many people have survived this dangerous phase. [[Abg. Vogl: 25 would have been yesterday!]] I talk a lot to people who are now working for our health and safety. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] These people are just ahead of their load limit. A group will be very happy to forget: the employees of the district headquarters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] They too have been working on high-speed tours for months. Many have volunteered to the Corona service and work on the separatism in addition to regular work. They too have arrived at the border of their loadability. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Especially now, in this crucial phase, it is essential and alternatively impossible to reduce our contacts massively so that we can also protect those who use themselves daily for our health. There will be a time after the virus. We will return to our usual life in many things, but some things will change permanently and permanently, for example in the world of work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Especially for digital and innovative operations, the crisis was an initial inflammation. This also opens up new opportunities for rural regions. I myself have been lucky to have received a job from the Agricultural District Authority in my home region after my studies, but for many this is not the case: I know many young people who would like to work with us at home or even in a rural region, but for whom it is unfortunately not possible. This applies even more to young women than to men. Today, however, we have the technical possibilities with which we can be ever more independent. We just need to use them. Of course, digital work can never completely replace personal contact, but already create home office for two or three days a week, but a whole new flexibility. Austria can play a pioneering role in this. We can thus strengthen rural areas, make our companies even more attractive to young and motivated people and make an important contribution to environmental and climate protection. However, we also need to create the right framework for this. In the long term, Austria can become a country where people have the opportunity to work in the professions that fit them and at the same time choose their food point where it is best for them. Here we can decide whether we want to be a pioneer in our rural regions or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58872	MEP Jeitler-Cincellli has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58893	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I want Today a confession of my affection for colleagues Michael Bernhardablegen – ah, he's here anyway –: I really find it extremely appreciative, respectful and respectful, as you go into this discourse. This is not usual in this house and I always find it very, very nice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] However, this week – on Tuesday, I think – I was somewhat irritated when suddenly another tonality was inside. It was, I think, about concrete policy, unambitioned concrete policy or something like that. I thought it was very funny when Mr Rauch spoke of cementing before – as if you now have a material axis or a new building material axis, I do not know. [[irradiated]] In any case, I found that very funny, I wanted to tell you that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think you can say a lot to Mrs Geessler. Some say about them things like, they do a head-through-wall policy, risk the economy, be uncompromising or enforceable or have a difficult monster resort – I read it recently – that will print money with CO2 emissions trading. All of this can be said, but today we are talking about the budget, and one cannot say: that this is unambitionable. I have to – on colleagues Hafenecker replicates – as a representative of the economy, as a member of the Federal Economic Union, with no need to acknowledge: This budget is great for our country because it contains a lot of investment projects. What alone can trigger the investment premium of 14 percent in our country is excellent. I don't think you can do that, and I say that openly and cordially, thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have never had so much budget for climate and energy measures. We have an investment package up to 2024 and a climate and energy fund with 2 billion euros - this is not unambitionable. I assume it owes the opposition role: You have to say something about it, but actually, I don't think you can say anything about climate and energy policy. In turn, I thank my employees for not reproducing the content and always investing a lot of time to prepare my documents. But sometimes, I think, you also have to deal with something, and it is nice to have a debate, discourse level and a dialogue in Parliament. Even if we sometimes have different viewpoints, I always like it when you keep it in this tonality – I like it very much. I would like to thank Mr Bernhard in this case. I thought I was doing this now, like Mrs. Blimlinger, because I have a very great desire: that we have a uniform yellow-tongue and yellow-bag system in Austria. We need a uniform collection. I will now always, if you are there, conclude my speech this way: By the way, I believe that we need a uniform yellow-ton system for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58963	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Geessler is in line. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e58984	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I take this as a compliment: I have already been referred to as a Member twice today. This is a compliment to the work of this House, which I have four months, as I was allowed to sit here as a Member, to do it myself. But now I am very happy and happy and see it as a privileged task to sit here as a minister. I would like to comment on three points from the discussion. The first one goes quite quickly: In the field of agricultural research – that was, I believe, by Mr Ecker von der SPÖ – we are all d’accord. More research and alternative development in the field of climate-friendly agriculture, also in line with biodiversity, where much is already happening, is a very important point, since I have to give you the right. It's already come up today. There is still a need for action, but it covers colleague Köstinger in the UG 42 – I have to refer to you so to speak. The two other points I wanted to address are the EAG, which is energy policy and what is in the budget, by Mr Schroll, and then the 1-2-3 ticket, which has occurred several times in the debate. To the EAG: It is true that the biggest of all energy investments is not in the budget, but is triggered by the Renewable Development Act. For many years, I have been trying to say: for decades, this is the biggest energy policy reform project that we are setting in motion. Yesterday in the Council of Ministers, we put the net reserve on the legislative path. So this is on its way to you. The overall package of the Renewable Development Act is in finalisation, is in good coordination with the European Commission. That's good, that's important. We are genuinely new in many areas of this law, especially in the energy communities. We are the first in Europe to implement it so ambitiously, there is a good dialogue, and therefore I also believe that a few weeks are now not as important as a good and substantial law that then affects decades. But it is, of course, guaranteed – and this is also found in the budget – that we have no funding gap. There are, for example, additional funds in the field of photovoltaics and solar thermals, amounting to 61.5 million euros via the Climate and Energy Funds and through the resources of the current Eco electricity Act, a secure and good coverage for this transitional period. So there is no concern about a gap, but a maximum of great anticipation for a truly large and beautiful renewable development law that we are currently working on. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] At the same time – and this is still part of the energy policy – the area of the Green Gas Package is in preparation. Of course, parallel intensive work is being done on this. This is the next big package. We know that we have a huge task in the gas sector, so we are working on this area in all directions. On the one hand, it is about the application page: How do we achieve greater green gas production in the best and most just system in the economy? On the other hand, it is also about the site of use. That is why the government programme has both sides in mind, and that is why we are now working on a gas package, which also takes account of both sides, not only the application, but also the use, use and sustainable decarbonisation of sectors such as space heat, where there are renewable alternatives. I can assure you, my team is working with high pressure on it. So this too will be a large package of laws, which must, above all, solve one, namely security. There has been much uncertainty in the field of biogas in recent decades, a lot of stop-and-go, and that's why it's good if we put that on solid legs now. Then I would like to come to the third point very briefly, on the 1-2-3 ticket. As you have mentioned several times, this budget has laid the foundation for the introduction of the Austrian stage in 2021, with a budget of 95 million euros covering all the differences in revenue to where the allies now stand, under the introduction of the tripartite ticket. There we are also with all allies in very, very good exchange. I would like to go into two levels: The one level that always exists in this debate is: If first it takes one, then the other, it takes first the infrastructure and the offer, then the ticket, or vice versa? - There's no either or not. In times of the climate crisis, and since we know that traffic is our biggest concern child in climate protection and climate neutrality 2040 is the goal, it can no longer be either or no longer, but it must be an And. Therefore, with this budget we invest both in the infrastructure and in the offer and in the ticket and work on all three pillars that need public mobility, very, very intensive and very, very comprehensive. But that's not going to be more like either-or, we have to think of it as And. There we have to go, also with a connection of transport – quite a lot of approaches to this have come into the debate today – by car to the railway station, by train then on, with bike-and-ride, park-and-ride, we have covered all these priorities in this budget. We can't wait there anymore, we have to turn on all three screws. The second level I wanted to go into: Even in this area – even in traffic – it is evident that it can only succeed if everyone pulls on one strand. We also have a shared responsibility between the Federal Government and the Federal Government in the area of infrastructure and the supply of transport, and that is why it is so important to announce countries such as Lower Austria to make a major bus offensive because it is a common responsibility. We take over the expansion of the railways in the federal government, we go with many other projects in advance, especially in the agglomerations, in the transport and regional transport sector. If the countries move on to a single line, for example in Lower Austria we are also expanding bus traffic, it is precisely as assured that in the regions of Austria this freedom of choice, which has already been mentioned today, will also change to public transport, and will no longer have to be by car, even if it is an electric car in the near future. We are now working very intensively on this. In total, this is a revolution in public transport – at least for the ticket, but also for many other areas, and so I see the compliments of Mrs Jeitler-Cincelli at the beginning. The ticket has been available for 14 years in various government programs of various parties and constellations on the topic of Austria's ticket. We're as far as we've never been. They shall secure the budget for implementation by voting on this budget. I say thank you in advance. This is a really big step. There's a lot of questions. There are some who are too fast, but I am sure that when we all move on to one line, we will take a really big step in public transport next year, on the whole, quite a lot of people In Austria, we have been waiting a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59084	Members of the Churchbaumer have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59106	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! As a Tyrolean – now! – Of course, the Brenner Base Tunnel is a matter of heart to me, not only because I come from the area of traffic, but because it is also important for our economy in Tyrol. Our economic operators complain that they are no longer coming back and forth on the highway. When I hear that this dispute between the builder, i.e. the society of the Brenner Base Tunnel, and the builder is delayed until 2037, I get a little bad personally, and I'm not quite sure either because I'm already retired. I hope we do this before. I have to say that I would You are really asking for your support, and also, as my colleague Gahr has said, for the journeys in Germany. It is important for our economy in Tyrol that we shift this transiting traffic – we are not talking about freight transport in the Tyrolean economy – but about transiting traffic – to the rails. There's no way around it. Prohibitions for the domestic economy, however, are not all right for me. To this end, I would like to say: Food, which each of us needs every day, is transported on the street. Yes to climate protection, yes to environmental protection, yes to e-mobility and yes to research in the field of hydropower – we stand behind it absolutely. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But where I'd like to go: Yes to hydropower and yes to e-mobility – because it needs expansion, but expansion can only be done by building bridges. In Tyrol, hydropower is the only solution to have renewable energy. If we need ten and 15 years of environmental policy for EIAs, it makes no sense, absolutely no sense. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This also applies to wind power. Lower Austria, Burgenland – it also needs investment there, and the EIAs also need bridges. Finally, I would like to thank the Asfinag for their solid work. The dividends are increased by 2021 from 165 to 245 million euros, and I would like to conclude by saying something: This also makes up traffic, namely the car and the truck traffic, and the traffic is not bad. Yes to climate protection, yes to environmental protection, in line with the economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59158	Mr Kühberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59179	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! It is an extraordinary time in the We're just living. We in Austria are in the lockdown. Our Federal Government has made this lockdown because it was necessary for the health system because it saved many lives. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, as well as in the fight against the corona virus, to keep us together in the fight against climate change. That is why it is also important, above all, to boost the economy after the Corona crisis, that many funding and measures are linked to climate change and environmental protection measures. Accordingly, this is written and illustrated in the budget. In this fight, we have seen a lot of points that are important. For example, there is a point: Safe energy supply must not go at the expense of the environment and climate. Another point, however, is that safe energy supply should not go at the expense of food security, and that is why the focus on energy generation must be mainly on already sealed areas. With the planned changeover to renewable energy sources – I am firmly convinced – Austria can take a pioneering role in Europe. Above all: In Austria, we have the prerequisites to generate energy ourselves, through our rich wood and water and also through the good conditions for wind and solar energy. But above all, we must also see that this added value remains in rural areas, with farmers, with small and medium-sized enterprises, with people living and working there. We in agriculture and we, the communities – I say as mayor – will, of course, make our contribution to this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] With this budget we can implement many innovative projects. I am convinced that before, there has already been criticism, that many jobs will be created and that this will in particular benefit our rural regions. We will also bring fewer energy sources from abroad to Austria. Above all, we are making an important contribution to climate change and environmental protection. Ladies and gentlemen, I started my speech with the words: ‘It is an extraordinary time.’ – Extraordinary times often also produce extraordinary achievements.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59231	Mrs Geessler has once again spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59252	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to colleague Kirchbaumer, for she reminded me that I wanted to address the BBT as well, because the topic of Brennerbasistunnel has naturally been found in several speeches. I believe that we all in this room today agree that the Brenner Base Tunnel is not only the largest construction project that Europe is making in the area of infrastructure, but also one of the central construction projects when talking about a relocation policy, especially when talking about climate-friendly freight logistics. There are many steps that must be accompanying, but it also needs the infrastructure, and for that it needs the BBT. The decision to dissolve the contract was a decision of the operating society, which was taken with all due responsibility and care. It is currently working on the revision of the construction schedules and I am sure that Mrs Kirchbaumer will experience this far before her retirement – we are working intensively on adapting the construction schedules. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] In this sense also a thank you to the employees in the field of BBT, who really work excellently and also do something about this difficult situation. Of course, thanks also – and I do not think I am saying that – to the Asfinag, which not only does excellent work in the maintenance, in the construction of safety, but also prepares for what it means to be operators of a road infrastructure in the age of climate-friendly mobility, i.e. at which neural points you need parking, for example, so that people can drive there so that they can then share a car and drive on the way you deal with the energy supply, what you need for renewable energies and much more, much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] At this point I would like to thank many in this area and, in turn, those in the other infrastructure companies who are doing excellent work so that we can continue in this major project mobility turnaround.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59309	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59337	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Dear Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! I am now the last speaker in this field, and I can summarize that across all political groups it has been recognised that there is much more money, more resources for climate change and environmental protection. I can also sum up that some of them are not going fast enough. The Freedom Party says climate protection is to be implemented in one year. The SPÖ – Mrs. Herr – says that she does not find the climate protection billions in the budget. Here is a summary which the Ministry of Finance has provided to us.In the 2021 budget, there is a total of EUR 1 856.6 million for environmental and climate-related expenditure available. [[Reading from a document]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] Because Mr Hafenecker says we do not thank the Green Ministers, I say a warm thank you from my side at the outset. [[towards Federal Minister Geessler]] With your commitment and commitment, especially in the area of rail development, there is a lot of Elan behind it. Thank you also on behalf of my region for the continuation of the Koralm Railway Extension, but also – new – for the electrification of the Graz Köflach Railway and for the two-track extension of the South Railway to the state border to Slovenia and for the development of the ÖBB Framework Plan by planning and projecting. Mr Rauch said that the ÖVP prevented any climate action and, above all, the 1-2-3 ticket. I would ask you to look at Upper Austria, to Mr Verkehrslandesrat Steinkellner from your party, who is also very critical. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I Do your homework there and convince your Transport Country Council that he's with you and maybe as a First Mover on board! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Very briefly: We are talking here in the debate about huge sums. What does this mean for our people in Austria, for the owners of houses, for single-family houses and for two-family houses? – We have to spend a lot of money on the renovation. 650 million euros are estimated at 100 million euros, as Mr Hammer said, for the socially weak. With the insulation of external walls, roofs, ceilings, the exchange of windows on energy-saving elements, we contribute 9 000 euros per household, ladies and gentlemen. The Raus-au-dem-Ol-Bonus – launched by Federal Minister Köstinger – has now taken up 14 000 households. There are very, very many funds – 142 million euros per year next year and in the budget path an additional 200 million euros per year – to get out of these oil heaters. There are also additional resources for photovoltaic construction, which is very important. In this area, I would like to suggest that there is support for a second system where there are already photovoltaic systems in single-family homes, because these are mostly the people who have an affinity and would continue to do so. By promoting electric mobility and electricity storage, any budget of federal funding of EUR 20 000, which is still being increased by countries and municipalities, can therefore benefit. Those who invest there help twice and invest twice, in climate protection, but also in the regional economy, because there are regional businesses that provide the services with their jobs and their local employees and thus strengthen the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59418	There is no further word message to this effect. The discussions on this subject have therefore been completed. [[16:00:24]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions – officials UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59500	We come to the breakdowns of financial management, public charges up to financing, exchange of currencies and the text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. The debate is under one. I should like to thank Mrs Geessler very much for her coming and welcome the Minister for Finance. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59534	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now entering the final phase of the discussions on the budget; there are a few questions that are not answered. The first question is: What does this crisis cost? The figures presented here at the budget speech were old before they were read. In the meantime, many things have happened, from September, where the budget was negotiated by the government, to the decision-making process today in November. There was first the travel restrictions, then it came to the lockdown light and now to the full lockdown that we have since Tuesday. Of these three measures in the meantime, only travel restrictions are included and budgeted. The consequences of the lockdown, especially of the current lockdown, have already been estimated by the economic researchers in advance, but they are not included in the budget. That is to say, we decide on a budget, of which the Greens and the ÖVP in particular know today that it does not correspond to the truth. We already know today that the figures decided here can never hold. This is not about small deviations, it is about many, many, many billions. An example: It says that the debt ratio will reach about 85 percent. Economic researchers say that because of the lockdown it will probably be up to 10 percent higher. So we are not talking about small deviations, but about quite, very large deviations, which are already known today. They would have to be in the budget, but they wouldn't. The question of what the crisis costs is not answered, it is absolutely wrong in the budget. This is a problem in principle once and for all. That is not what I am going to blame the honourable Member of the EIA and of the Greens, but of course this is the case with the Minister of Finance, but you decide on the budget and with it you take part of this responsibility. I wouldn't do this in your place. We have already offered and have also submitted a corresponding request that the Minister of Finance should have time so that we do not again have such a cuddly dome with missing zeros and similar to the last time, but that he has two, three, four weeks to put the real figures in place and that in December we decide on a budget that corresponds to the truth. The second thing I wanted to say here – because I've been asked more often today: What would you do differently?, and because many speakers asked, above all, the ÖVP: After what would you do differently? –, is: We wouldn't do anything else, but much better, and I'll give you four examples of what we would do differently, and I'm surprised that you don't do it too. First example: the question of the labour market. We know that there is the highest level of unemployment in the Second Republic, and we are just looking at how much money is available to train, activate and get back into employment. We see, however, that it is less money per unemployed person than in the high economy in 2016/2017. That's something we'd do differently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the case of the highest level of unemployment, we would spend more money to combat unemployment and no less. [[Abg. Hanger:... short work!]] The second is: We all know that we need to strengthen domestic demand, especially the small and the smallest incomes. One example of this is, of course, the unemployed. They lose almost half their income from today to tomorrow. Our proposal that they do not receive 55, but 70 percent net replacement rate, you simply refused. They have granted a single payment, but have not found a lasting solution. If You want to strengthen domestic demand, increase unemployment benefits, then go directly to domestic demand. You don't do that! We'd do better. I don't understand why you don't. The third is the investment. I really want to highlight the communities once again. They are the largest public investor, mainly investing in the local economy, in small and medium-sized enterprises. The communities lose 2.5 billion euros due to the crisis, i.e. 2.5 billion euros less to invest. There is the Community Investment Act, but this only provides for 1 billion euros, i.e. the municipalities still lose 1.5 billion euros. We'd do it differently. We would replace the money they lose through the crisis with the communities. We do this at many businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do this at many farms, but: Why don't we do this to the communities? Why do we not replace the revenue losses they have through the crisis so that they can invest? I don't understand. We'd do it differently, too. The fourth example is the financing of hospitals. Part of the funding of the hospitals runs through the Federal budget. It will be reduced by almost 200 million euros. No one has been able to explain to me how one comes to the idea of presenting to us Members a budget, which for over 100 years has reduced the number of hospitals to 200 million euros. I don't understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have not yet seen any amendment amendments. So these are four things we would do differently. There's a lot more, but I'm gonna put these four here now. I'd be glad if you'd pick up at least two or three of them. Why you haven't already implemented all four, not only do I not understand, but probably most Austrians don't understand either. The last question is: Who is actually paying for this crisis? – I have the impression that parts of the government are now acting as if the money had been abolished. I have a bad news: It has not been abolished. The debts we take up, I think I'm right to counter, but: Who, in the end, pays for this crisis? All I've heard from the Minister of Finance so far was that the large bulk pays, not the corporations, not the asset, not the billionaires. There is no – none! – Signs in this budget that international corporations are contributing to billionaires and super-richs. We know that the contribution of these groups to the Community budget in Austria is anyway embarrassingly small. This is something that needs to be changed, because the bill will come, and it will be long. It can't be that this again pays the broad mass alone, but it's also the asset and international corporations that have to make their contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59588	Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59615	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! As I believe, Mr Krainer has made a proposal that is just as interesting and inadequate, namely to postpone the budget decision in December, because we then know more about what the crisis costs. You actually know something more, because a few of the effects might be more concrete. I'd make a bet with you. If we did, Mr Krainer would certainly say the same again in December. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] We still don't know what the crisis costs! Let us move the decision once again! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We probably still have no budget 2021 at the end of next year. One must not like the metaphor of Andreas Khol that the truth is a daughter of the time. That would probably be true, however, because the truth, Mr Krainer, simply does not exist in this context, because it changes permanently, with every new knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, both the 2020 budget implementation, which we are now in, and, of course, the 2021 budget, are, of course, heavily influenced by crisis management, and that is nothing less than securing and saving our livelihoods for the future. These are rescue and aid measures for the economy, from which we all live together, from which we all finance our social system together, from which we all, at the end of the day, finance the health system and much more, including culture, sports and many other things. Without a reasonable economic basis, all these things are not possible or at least not possible to the extent that we are accustomed to these days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means: Short work, tax subsidies, grants for the various sectors of the economy, culture, sport and so on have all been made or are being done legitimately and are ultimately necessary to maintain our livelihoods, to obtain jobs for people, to enable businesses to continue to have a reasonable economy. But yes: Of course, everything we do could still be more – and we are spending more money on these stabilisation measures in relation to our population than almost any other country in this world – there are still groups, business areas, economic areas that hardly know how to get through the rounds. We, starting from the Minister of Finance and his staff, where I really would like to thank myself very, very much for the day and night work they do, we do, believe me, all possible human beings to provide assistance for these many areas mentioned and finally to ensure their survival. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] That's a good thing! However, there is also a time after the crisis or the crisis – not only hopeful; I am convinced that there will be them. Of course, many of the needs in the current crisis are for security and rescue, but of course there is also a need for investment in the future. These can already be found in the 2021 budget, and they will have to be much stronger in the 2022 budget when it comes to investment by companies, investment by communities when it comes to investment in innovation, in research, in development. In the end, too, these are the foundations for an economy – a profitable economy and thus a life-financing economy – to return to the next few years. an order of magnitude will be possible, as we were still used to in 2019 and in the years before. On the one hand, the 2021 budget is a mix of still crisis management, on the other hand, but already investment in education, research, climate protection, security – in all these things. Finally, investment in these areas is designed to enable us to return to a future, according to the motto: It is now about dealing with the crisis together, dealing with it in the greatest possible solidarity, not being jealous to look at the others: What's going on? What's going on? – You try to help everyone. But, of course, it is a matter of course – and to this end, the first measures in this budget are already in place – to get out of the crisis together. Please, let's help everyone! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] One can, of course, differ in many things, for ideological reasons, perhaps also for objectively different viewpoints, for technical reasons, however always. In times of crisis there are many approaches to how to deal with such a crisis, but at the end of the day, I believe, we must not agree on each other's will to do the best possible to ensure that this country and the people in this country get out of the crisis. Please support this path all of you! It's not about one single one of us, it's about the Austrians in the end, and we're doing it all for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59703	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59724	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, and watchers in front of the television screens! Mr Head, the EIA is always talking about cooperation, but you are the ones who reject our positive initiatives for the economy. We know that 50 percent of our gross national product is about 400 billion euros over consumption, and we have x-times made our request to strengthen consumption with the Austrian voucher of 1 000 euros, which must not be spent on Amazon and Co, but on companies in the domestic economy. This is precisely the difference: It distributes so-called helicopter money, which is then used in other countries, and we strengthen mass purchasing power in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what are you doing as a government with the help of the Greens? – You constantly reject these initiatives, knowing that, of course, mass purchasing power is driving the economy, securing income, maintaining jobs. Why are you doing that? Why do you always say “jointly” and reflectively reject this initiative – I am still talking about further initiatives? Do you know what I'm incredibly frustrated about? – The fact that the European Union does not receive EUR 750 billion for the so-called reconstruction fund, although it is not expected to do so in accordance with European legislation. § 123 and § 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union prohibit a community of debts. Nevertheless, the European Union takes up 750 billion euros. Of this, 390 billion euros will be donated as gifts of money to the southern countries Donate! Why is not a part of it taken for our Austrian citizens, for our consumption? - I don't understand at all. You're always talking about charity. The next thing for me is the Austrian citizen to whom this money is to benefit, and that is not the southern countries that have been supporting and subsidising the European Union for decades. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You have to address this clearly here! There would be much more to say. Of course, it is also important and necessary for unemployment support to be increased, because this also increases mass income. One must not always forget the large mass of the population and prefer other institutions, businesses – I am still talking about that. It is, of course, the biggest crisis, but it is reinforced by closures, school closures and cetera. I hope that the plants will be able to lock up as soon as possible and that it will not take as long as Minister Anschhober has announced as possible: until a vaccine is available. We won't survive. A few days ago, the Prodinger tourist advice for tourism created three scenarios, including for Tyrol. There is a worst-case scenario, according to which the nights of winter in Tyrol break down by 46 percent, from 27.5 million to 15 million nights of stay, which would mean a direct loss of value of 1.2 billion euros only in Tyrol. This would put 12 000 jobs at risk in tourism alone. Then there are bath and best-case scenarios. Mr Finanzminister, I ask you: Does the government also have such scenarios – Worst Case, Best Case, Bad Case? Or are we going back into the crisis without being prepared for this crisis? – No scenario has yet been presented to the House. We don't know how it goes, and if the farms can't work, it can be dramatic. We have put in many initiatives in Parliament, because it is necessary and important that we help ourselves. We need to put in place liquidity, equity-strengthening measures for Austrian companies. The treatment of our initiatives has been suspended in the Tourism Committee, and they are rejected here. I don't understand you. Mr Kopf, you are talking about cooperation – where is the cooperation? We have asked about x initiatives to widen the equity base of businesses. We want the silent reserves that slumber in the farms to be upgraded. This would bring more strength to the company. We want equity, additional capital that entrepreneurs are bringing into their businesses, to be treated as foreign capital. Foreign capital interest rates can be depreciated as an effort, not equity interest. This is a disadvantage, you have to change it! We really need to pool the strength to ensure that our businesses have more liquidity to get out of this crisis. Investment premium: good thing, you have to say, but, Minister, the first 2 billion euros are exhausted. There are many applications to the AWS which cannot be processed at the moment because the announced increase in the investment premium has not yet been decided. They tell the entrepreneurs: Invested!, but that's half-way. There's a need to rethink. I ask you, Minister of Finance: Have you already broken your head over what happens if the cancellation of insolvency obligation at 31. January 2021 ends? Many companies therefore have the opportunity to continue to operate because this insolvency obligation has been abolished and therefore they do not register bankruptcy must. So, that's what's going on. It's over. What do you say? Are you doing this? – Is the crisis then coming brutally and frontally or is one trying to prevent that? For example, I liked the Austrian Hoteliers' Association's initiative, which said: We reason a bad company to which we outsource bridge loans, due interest, taxes and then make a personal agreement with each company so that these debts can be repaid according to the liquidity of the companies. – Is there anything like that? Or do we walk back into a disaster without us knowing? We have launched initiatives to facilitate the taxation of operational tasks. Especially in these times, many entrepreneurs no longer want to continue their businesses and say: I am old, I want to leave now, but this exit is difficult because the operating tasks are too expensive. Initiative brought in – exposed – rejected! You know our position on the Epidemic Act: Entrepreneurs shall be compensated in accordance with the Epidemic Act. – Don’t pass until now just happen in the beginning! I can also talk about the special situation of travel agencies. That's an industry you've ever forgotten. There is really a cry for help from the industry to the Federal Chancellor. Very soon: The travel agency industry has no chance of getting a turnover replacement because it is not formally closed, although there are starting blocks and the consumer cannot book in the travel agencies. And what happens now? – These companies, which are affected by the crisis, do not even receive a turnover replacement. That's a disaster! ==References====External links== It was written to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on 1 November: “We are unscrupulous, horrified and more than desperate!” – That must be changed! This sector must be helped! Or other example: There are about 230 travel agencies in Austria, which were terminated in the summer by registration of the lump sum insurance. With 1. They no longer have insurance in January 2021, and they have been deprived of the business base. Nothing happens in this respect. This farm is to help! These are small and medium-sized enterprises, 230 in the number known to me, which are simply left in the rain. Now I can still say something to the state aid. It is good, necessary and important to help, but the help must be quick, it must be excellent and it must also be fair. You know, I've had to work for private renters for weeks, so that they'll get a compensation at all. I have made a parliamentary request on the compensation of private tenants. The answer was: ==References== In October, 1 635 applications were granted by almost 4 000 private tenants and 1 186 received. 1 149 applications were rejected. – These are the smallest of the little ones affected here. I asked: How high was the average amount of support from the hardness fund that these micro-enterprises, which have at least 300,000 guest beds in Austria, receive? – Answer: EUR 1 300. Theoretically possible for the first six months would be 15 000 euros. If you multiply this EUR 1 300 with the 1,635 establishments whose applications have been granted, this will result in a sum of EUR 2 125 000. So much has been spent on the mass of small businesses – only to know the relationship. For this small sum, which is high for businesses - - Mr Finanzminister, you play on the phone, I would really ask you to watch out for this topic and problem, because mobile games really do not make it any better. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Please do not always let the micro-enterprises, the small businesses go through this crisis without support! You have to beg and beg for something to go on. It can't be! I can give you another example: The revenue is great, is necessary, but, Minister of Finance, you already know that companies that closed in November receive accommodation companies – I also know a few examples – even though they did not make any revenue in November. You will receive payments refunded, payments from guests received in November will be refunded. This is about 100 000 euros, as it is not about 1 300 euros for a small one. So whether that's fair, this question, please nice, you have to answer for yourself. I don't think that's fair. In conclusion, Minister for Finance: We want to have or we wish you to give massive support to the broad mass of the population, including the micro-enterprises, the small businesses, that you give all businesses a fair, fair compensation and that above all, the Epidemic Act, which you have passed through the Covid-19 Act, is implemented with a view to the payment of earnings. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59861	Member of the European Parliament is entitled to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59882	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I do not want to address everything you have mentioned, Mr Hauser, but that helicopter money is not the most effective way of helping, I think, you can imagine yourself. We have just tried to be more effective and to adapt the tools and instruments exactly to who needs the most help. On behalf of Mr Krainer: The Wifo has shown in a study that the crisis has kept the lower incomes stable – Professor Badelt has also said it in the expert hearing – and that they have even increased slightly in some cases. So I think there's a lot of things to do here, of course, but in general, the real risk of slipping into poverty could be avoided. From the UG 45, which we are currently discussing, the main corona-related aid measures such as the hardening fund, fixed-cost grant and the NPO fund will be financed. For 2021, 4 billion euros are also estimated for the fixed-cost grant. I think this is a good thing, because the fixed-cost grant is just as one of these perfectly secure support, and at the same time – as I think – is sufficient, unbureaucratic and fast. However, we Greens have always been in favour of this and have stressed that it is important for companies to exercise solidarity that entrepreneurs themselves are solid in this crisis. That is why it is important – and this is also realized in the fixed cost grant and also in its extension – that cancellations, dividend payouts and disproportionate managers' bonuses should be removed, and so that they can benefit from the promotions. Similarly, it is a fair contribution to public funding for companies that in the past have virtually been pressed to make. Because From the pot now the money for the support comes, there is no claim for companies that have carried out aggressive tax avoidance. In the crisis, not only does public expenditure on aid increase, but it also reduces revenue, so as to prevent insolvency, to reduce the number of unemployed or not to raise too much and to prevent poverty. This, of course, is largely economic and negative. But there are not only unfortunate reasons that lead to this. In particular, the preferential reduction in the lower income tax rate, including the increase in social security contributions, is a measure which is very useful even after the crisis, and which, once the worst has survived, will result in not only the net income of households, people and more money being in the pocket, but also in boosting the economy and thus safeguarding jobs in the medium term. Then we have put in place measures in the area of temporary tax reductions, which also contribute to boosting the economy as investment is attracted. This is important, therefore, because the state plays an essential role in this phase – you have to support the economy – but we are not going to invest out of this crisis without private companies without private capital. In addition to the staged investment premium with ecological incentives, we have also created a few fiscal measures to help. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am confident that this will also strengthen us from the crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59936	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e59958	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear sisters, dear Seeher! I would like to start by saying that the Minister of State has not yet listened to the statements made by Mr Kopf, namely: [[Federal Minister Blümel talks with staff of the Parliamentary Directorate]] I think Mr Kopf has said that it is not possible to estimate the costs of the crisis now. That's how I see it. I believe it is not serious to say now what the crisis will cost as a whole. But what I see differently – and there I have to contradict him – is simply the point that when you submit a budget and if you are in a hard lockdown, of course you have to have the time to praise it. It is also not true that you do not have any data on it. Professor Badelt has also made a proposal for a crisis scenario, and we have done nothing but reflect it in our figures. This would have, of course, made it possible to make a much more accurate budget than that which is now at the table. With that – I have said it before – you really are the first finance minister in history who manages to present a budget twice a year, which is simply completely wrong on the day of the decision. There are many examples, we have already heard some why it is so wrong. Two more come from me: For example, on the revenue side, you have charged 80 percent refund of the amounts granted to the company this year. I'm really wondering: How are they supposed to pay this after this year? So I think that this is a very positive access, and we do not believe that it can be true either. I hear But from your house, that other measures are already being worked on, so that this is not required, because, as I think, that would really kill many companies. Expenditure side: 365 000 unemployed are included in the 2021 budget. I would really like every person to get back to work next year. But if you look at the scenario of Badelt, you can see that he is calculating 10.3 percent unemployed in this crisis scenario. 10.3 per cent unemployed already means 2 billion euros more in this budget pot. That too can't be true. We also know that in the next few years, a large number of stakeholders expect far higher unemployment rates. Of course, this is also nowhere pictured. I know that you may not be able to picture this in the budget, but I hope you have built a crisis scenario in this regard and have internal calculations, and above all you have a plan, as you then deal with this situation, because that is in your responsibility, Federal Minister. I come from the economy and would like to tell you once again that no company could allow itself to present such a budget proposal or to go to a bank with such a P & L. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's perhaps talk about crisis management: Yes, there were sensible measures in that, we also see that – like securing the investment premium, that is well suited – but overall, in crisis management, of course, we have already produced a huge flickwork; and even this flicker slut does not really bring you to the ground. It has already been mentioned, the entrepreneurs have been waiting since mid-September – since mid-September! – to the fixed cost grant phase two. That would have been to be done by your home at any time, but it has not been done. We have heard this very often now. Liquidity is just in November, when Christmas money is paid out, really a huge theme for the businesses, but the fixed cost grant phase two is waiting for itself. Hopefully he'll come next week and hopefully he'll work as well. Turnover, the next tool: Yeah, I'm really going to keep my mind on the fact that this tool is misplaced for times of lockdown. During the lockdown there is a tool that is much better suited, an instrument that has just this coat of disaster aid. This not only makes it possible to pay higher aid to businesses, it also brings much more planning and much more security for businesses. That's what you've been sloppy about, because you just haven't been looking for it in time. It's not witchcraft. You could definitely have done that. Now we are two weeks before December, and the companies have no idea what will apply in December. Sure is just one thing: If you do not put sensible concepts on the table quickly, then we can expect one, namely, that many companies will no longer lock up – and then we really have these insolvency issues, which are already talking about many that will meet us hard next year in May, June. I already admit it, and I also agree, it is of course no easier job to be Finance Minister in 2020, but it would have been all the more important, especially for 2021, to design a budget that will emerge from the crisis, a budget that really shows the way to the future and a way out of this crisis. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What do we mean by that? – We need to relieve people and businesses. We need to create tax incentives, and it simply needs a much better economic package. At the same time, sustainable structural reforms are needed. About it we have A great deal has already been said. These debts need to be reduced at some point, and the first steps must now be taken, and the plan must be designed to implement these reforms. However, we find nothing to do with this budget in 2021 and not in the financial framework until 2024. I ask you again: Where is the second collective reform? Where is the abolition of cold progression in your plan? - She's not in the price right now. Income-neutral environmental tax reform in a simultaneous relief of the labour factor – this is really the most important thing you need to do right now in order to make this economic location prosperous again. In Germany it is so far that an employee costs 8 percent less than in Austria. That's Germany, I'm not talking about a low-tax country. These are simply competitive disadvantages that we cannot afford. The necessary reform of the pension system: This issue has, I don't know, probably been a subject for decades, and it's not going on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] That's a very, very important lever. We would also like that to be implemented. Reform of the national support strategy: There are billions in double and triple funding. That's what all the experts say. This would allow you to quickly make money available for other measures. We cannot afford to continue to do so. In the case of large future investments – education, research and development, digitisation, infrastructure – the first steps have been taken, but they will not be enough. That means it just needs more. And as far as federalism reform and the reform of financial compensation are concerned, I think the Heads of State have addressed that we are moving it to 2024. Then you can knock back. Four lost years for the budget! So, Minister of Finance, what I want to say with that – I think it has come out clearly –: It's not enough. Because I just read it and because I want to say something positive today: You decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers a package of transparency for the Covid aid. That's how I read it. – I have to say honestly, I think this is really good and we are really happy. Of course, we do not know the details yet, and we still need to look at how it will be implemented then, but transparency is really important to us. If you might want to look at an example of implementation, where it really succeeds, I would like to say: I never praise the AMA, but the AMA transparency database is something you can see how to do it. There is any support, any compensation that a farm receives, inside – with the sum, with the name of the holding. This could be taken as an example. We like this, because: That's tax money. A final sentence on transparency, why this is so important to us: It's not only about discovering corruption through transparency of the economy of friends – sunlight, so transparency is the best disinfectant, it's always called – it's something quite different also important: Transparency creates confidence in particular. It creates trust and solidarity with the measures. People, taxpayers need to know why the money is spent, how much and what for. This is really something that acts as a confidence-building tool and also creates solidarity. Let me conclude by saying: You don't spend your own money. They spend the money of taxpayers and taxpayers, and they deserve to know what happens to their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60073	Mr Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60094	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! We are approaching the end of the financial debate. Our Minister of Finance, with the help of its experts, has presented to the best of its knowledge and conscience a budget that is stabilising this crisis, but also directed towards the future, so that we can come out of this crisis half way. [[Call:]] EUR 50 billion is the shield for dealing with the crisis. For example, if the SPÖ says – I just call one example, I want to sum up –: The figures are not right, and you have to do that in December!, then I might say: Mr. Krainer, once in Carinthia at the financial officer Schaunig and at the head of the state Kaiser, they are also doing the budget – it was presented at the same time and will be decided next week. There the financial officer said: I'm not going to change that, because that doesn't hold! Our Minister of Finance, when we heard that the second lockdown is coming, has introduced an amendment budget, and we have worked on it and have already responded to these figures. You can't go there more precisely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What the Freedom Party says is: It's all bad, it's nothing good at all. Corona doesn't exist, we all know each other anyway, are relatives. – Save me more words! And you, Mrs von den NEOS, said that it was not possible in the economy to present such a budget with such uncertain figures. I'm a businessman. If anyone tells me today that he can create a budget for the next year, which is precisely the point in terms of revenue and expenditure, then he is no longer an entrepreneur, but a fortunemaker – for with that he deserves much more. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to say something: What this government is doing in this crisis – from our chancellor and our vice chancellor to everyone else – deserves real respect. If it's made too fast, it says it's not poured out. If it's too slow, it's too sad. If something is announced in the morning, it says he should have done it in the afternoon. It's all wrong. If you don't want to go somewhere, you just don't want to go – that's true, but the crisis is a little too serious for such political players. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to make the following request quickly: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[16:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60230	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. Member Yildirim has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60254	Mr President. High house! Minister! Dear Seers! If I listen now to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Obernosterer of the ÖVP, I have only a few words to say: As the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, you should know best who is participating in this budget. That you, as representative of the Government Party, now want to give us, that is, representatives of the opposition, in no way credibility, neither the SPÖ nor the NEOS nor the FPÖ, seems to be in the nature of the matter, but you know what excellent institutions we have in this Republic. As the chairman of this committee, have you never considered the budget reports of the budget service or of the Court of Auditors or the impact-orientated reports? All these are important achievements. Look Don't you agree with your reviews? - I'm a little disappointed. The closer one looks at this budget, ladies and gentlemen, the more one deepens itself in it, the more one comes to believe – I have done so – that it is really not appropriate to bring this republic out of the crisis safely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Think about how we were envied internationally! – Since I broke a lance for the social democratic leadership in this country Under the leadership of the Social Democratic Party, we were internationally regarded as so high, we were properly envied. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] Consider how our chancellors brought this country out of difficult crises! In 2013, ladies and gentlemen, those Members who have been serving in this House for a long time knew that there was an important reform in the Federal Budget Act, which also concerned: Who will benefit the money we all pay? If there are as many as possible, does it take as many as possible – or does it favor a few? We have fought for decades for a fairer society in this country, that there is a modern society, that women too are doing well. This morning, when I heard the debates on women's equality, I thought: Hat off, yes, 2.5 million euros more! Great, good! – But do you know what that is? – I don’t want to appreciate it, because every euro in this area is needed, but that’s fire brigade, that’s symptom fight! Do you know how social policy would have looked like a fair women's policy in that country if you had maintained these effective objectives in just distributing employment, paid and unpaid work? But what did you do, Mr Minister, or what did your predecessor, Mr. Finanzminister Löger, do? – He has just eliminated one of the central goals! And what did you do? - You continue to write it. This is one of the most important things in women's politics and social policy! Do you know what that means? – A step back, a step back to society! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This always happens when the EIA becomes strong in this country. Think of the 2004 pension reform! What happened? – They have taken men and women the best 15 years of their lives, and today you stand and distribute Peanuts! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: We secured them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] They distribute peanuts and celebrate. And you, the Green Members, celebrate this instead of protesting and saying: What about this equality objective? – How can you agree to such a budget? I can't do that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: What about the youth? What about the next generations? That's the question!]] I just want to get to the end and say: In fact, this budget is not suitable to really get the country out of the crisis. With this snail pace, we must not be allowed to celebrate women's politics! We have been fighting for over 100 years for the same wage for equivalent work. Let us not, the women in this country, wait another 100 years for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Decide that this will come back, this effect target, which is a fairer distribution of income, which is about more fairer pensions and incomes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60399	Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60421	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear High House and dear Seers! At the end of this budget debate, I would like to talk again about something that is very important to me personally. About the communities, one could say – a little theatrical – that they are the blood circulation of Austria, because they provide us with everything that is important – I have said this in a similar form here – and at present there is a little too little oxygen in the blood. The municipalities have fewer tax revenues, just as Austria has fewer tax revenue at present, the incomes are falling, the municipal taxes are falling – and social expenditure is increasing, and the communities are suffering. That is why we decided here in spring to the Municipal Investment Act to allow municipalities to continue to carry out their investments, and this works very well. The municipalities receive 50 percent grants and even more because additional, double funding is explicitly desired; for example, there is up to 75 percent support for cycle paths, the school and kindergarten funds also support school construction projects, and then there are further funding through the 15a agreements – many multi-fundings are thus possible beyond these 50 percent. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Based on every citizen, every resident is 100 euros to the communities and they can pick them up – and they do so constantly. A few examples: Haag in Niederösterreich is turning to LED, Andorf in Upper Austria is expanding the cycle paths, and in Klagenfurt 25 million euros are used for building renovation and accessibility. There are therefore very different projects, which are supported by them, with an average of EUR 120 000 per project application. In the budget proposal that the local authorities are now deciding on, they will decide on many other projects. [[Abg. Brügl:... cycle paths already finished!]] That means that we have many more requests to make. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This shows that the communities are on a good path. They carry out their projects, they continue to plan for 2021, thus awarding local contracts and creating jobs. [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] But you also have to say: We must ensure that they continue to be well, and a view of 2021 also shows that we must see that the communities continue to have this supply of oxygen in the blood. [[Abg. Kollross: They don't work well!]] – We all have to take responsibility! I'm going to start with us here: The communities will need further support, I assume – also for the current operation. [[Abg. Kollross: Tell me about this in April! And where are the measures?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] At the same time – some of which are already done by the countries, but they have to do so – countries have to take responsibility, for example with regard to social costs. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Loacker.]] Finally, the communities also wish to have access to the favourable credit terms of the federal government – we must also allow them to do so. [[Abg. Kollross:... they don't have money!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: This is the height!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] United forces are needed, then the communities will be fine, and so will all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60554	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60575	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to underline what Mr Götze said about the responsibility of the federal states: If the tax revenue is slumping and the financial compensation is rinsing the money into the country's cash registers, they also hold their hands unattended. It is now worse, and there is a need for countries to make their contribution and to play their part, and this holds to be the same for the communities. You have to say this openly, honestly and fairly! The Minister of Finance has the same heavy standing as all his predecessors, because federalism works in Austria in this way: A prince of the country used to have, If he was pleading to attack the neighbor, today they are going to Vienna to 9 and press the Minister of Finance – one to nine. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to draw attention briefly to what is going on at the end of the debate, and that is the breakdown of civil servants' pensions. If the Minister of Climate Change is today committed to an increase of EUR 220 million in the climate budget, it must be said that expenditure on civil servants' pensions is rising by EUR 400 million: from EUR 10.1 billion to 10.5 billion and EUR 11.7 billion in 2024. – So there is a nice dynamic in it: 3.5, 3.7, 3.9 percent each year in addition to official pensions. Something worthy of praise must be said: The officials have an average retirement age of 62,4 years, and if we had that in social security pensions, then the funding there of course looked much more rosy. Then there is something else to say to control the subject: What can the Minister of Finance do to get officials' pensions under control? – Actually, not as much as he should. The budget service and the Court of Auditors regularly draw attention to the fact that we have a management and competence problem because the service law is made in the Ministry of Officials and the paying agency is then the Minister of Finance. Actually, the control should be so that it is merged in one place. It is also difficult to make retirement changes in the ministry itself. So in most cases you have three players on the field to settle a topic, and so you can't control the area of civil servants' pensions of course. The nice thing about the breakdown of civil servants' pensions is the goals of action – that is really the best! – the important objective of action is to: It must be ensured that officials' salaries are paid 100 percent on time, then the objective of action is achieved. So we set ourselves such targets in the management of a budget block of over 10 billion euros. That's what you see: There is no ambition in there, there would also be a structural change and a little further development for the Minister of Finance in the talks with the Minister of Staff, Deputy Chancellor Kogler, so that we can come to a control for this billion-hard block at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60626	Mr Baumgartner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60648	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Of course, the 2021 budget is marked by the crisis, but we have managed to enable special investment in some areas. The aim is to drive the economy and secure jobs. Not only do we want to get out of the crisis but we want to get out of it strengthened. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I have heard a lot of speeches in the last few days, and I can only be surprised at some of the contributions made by the opposition. Apart from the fact that everything is too little and is too late and, and, above all, I would like to address statements concerning agriculture and the communities. My parents were farmers, and I have always seen them work – no vacation and almost no weekend off. If the SPÖ and NEOS criticize and attack the pensions of farmers, I am really horrified. I cannot imagine that the colleagues from the SPÖ and the NEOS – Mr Seemayer, Mr Stöger, Mr Loacker – have something against the farmers. They are the ones that make sure the table is covered. I found for myself only a explanation for this farmer bashing: You were probably denied membership in the Farmers' Federation, and that's why you're a little offended. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Mr Loacker does not listen to me at all. Mr Loacker, I spoke to you, and you don't listen to me! I have a good wire to the president of the Farmers' Federation, and if you want, I can make sure you get a membership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: (keeping both thumbs in height) And I am automatically in the Bundesleitung as a Member!]] - Great! Now to the municipalities: As mayor, it is important for me to mention that the municipal investment package is well accepted. At the end of October, 144 million euros had already been paid to 611 municipalities. Of course, not all of the funds have been collected, because the projects are often only addressed next year. I haven't picked up the money for my community either, because our project will start only next year. I spoke to many mayors, and none of them complained that the funds could not be collected, on the contrary: 1,133 projects with a total investment volume of 740 million euros were supported. Yes, of course, the communities will miss the money next year. The Federal Government cannot vote all expenditure alone. That's right, Mr Loacker: All local authorities must cooperate. The Minister of Finance is, of course, in regular exchange with the local government. I would like to stress once again that I am firmly convinced that we will be well hit by this crisis. We're going to be really good at this crisis, but we have to stick together: We buy all the regional food from our farmers, we buy our Christmas gifts in the online shops of our local businesses and hopefully in December in the shops! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us order our food at the hosts in the place or around the corner, and let's go eat when this is possible again! If it is possible again: If we make holidays in Austria, we support our local tourism! Let us help one another, for all of us, for our Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60707	Mr Köllner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60729	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! I ask you to pay you 2, 3 minutes of your attention – not to please me, but to take to heart what I read to you now –: I am trying to make my contribution to managing the pandemic as well as I can, but what my industry and therefore my office currently have to endure is simply too much to demand. Every crisis – natural disasters, terrorism, war, economic crises – has so far been overcome by ourselves, but we cannot vote for the Covid-19 crisis ourselves. - Quote. These and other words, Minister of Finance, have caught me up with a woman who is desperate. I am talking about the fate of a woman who is exemplary for an industry with around 2,500 businesses and 10,000 jobs. It is an industry that provides for the most beautiful days of the year and thus for happiness among all of us, But now it is before the ruins of their existence: It's about the travel agencies industry. I brought a board, because yesterday we tabled a motion for a resolution on the rescue of the travel industry. [[The speaker places a table with the title “Save the Travel Industry!” on the speaker’s desk.]] I am glad that the colleague of the FPÖ has also recognised the seriousness of the situation and supported this request. Since the first lockdown in March, the sales of travel agencies and organisers in the basement have been gridled like stock prices at a stock exchange crash. There are sales losses of 90, 95 percent, and an end is not yet in sight. But just as long as the people concerned have been standing in line to get help from the Federal Government – but until now they have always looked through their fingers. This industry is no longer able to save itself: Travel agencies live on commissions, but they have had to repay them for months due to cancellations. One thing you should know, Minister of Finance: Responsibilities are also exhausted at some point! As long as there are restrictions on travel, the industry will not achieve sales. Yes, the short-time work helps to dispel unemployment – that is important – but it still costs companies something, and with zero turnover, every single issue is too much. But do you know what the biggest problem is? – That you treat this sector differently because of your regulation. Please clean You're not going to the Minister of Health now! While companies receive millions of assistance, travel agencies fall through the rust in the 80 percent sales: Although no booking is possible for tourist purposes due to the restrictions, travel agencies are not officially closed. You have to let that break on your tongue, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: The travel agencies do not receive revenue, nor have they received anything from the promised fixed cost allowance phase two, and a solution for the downturn of insurance is also not in sight – all of this, as I said, with zero sales. I described to you one of the many fates in the first place – quite honestly: Isn't that close to you? Is that what you're trying to do? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Finanzminister, is that what you're trying to do? You're sitting here like you're not doing anything about this as if you weren't interested in it. If you have only one spark of empathy, stop watching and finally save this industry, because it is also about people, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60789	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60810	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are at the end of a three-day budget debate, which is quite a good opportunity to get a summary. The contents of the debate were expected: It is up to the government to argue for the budget and praise it. I personally believe that this was as simple as almost never before, because it is an incredible offensive budget with many different measures in the individual sub-divisions. I am very pleased about initiatives in the constituencies – including in my constituency – and I am only a little sorry that, if you are to thank yourself as a Member of his constituency, the opposition parties are making fun of it. I don't think that's all right. In any case, however, there is a huge amount of good in the field of education, universities, security, climate protection and, and, On the other hand, it is obviously the task of the opposition to criticise the budget, and I believe that the opposition has rarely been as difficult as this time to criticize the budget. [[Abg. Kollross: Go!]] I would like to add three examples. For example, I hear about the FPÖ, the budget – especially the budget implementation and the corona aid – is not correct. Obviously, they were not included in the budget hearing, because all budget experts – the martyrs nominated by SPÖ, but also Badelt and Kocher – said: Of course, these measures are effective! – This can also be measured, no question, we only need to look at the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] We just need to look at how business insolvency has developed: Of course, economic aid is taking place! Mr Köllner, I will, however, give you some of the following. Of course, there are also problems, and not everything worked 100 percent perfectly. On the whole, however, it is a broad, good programme that has provided stability and the preservation of jobs in Austria, and that is the most important one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, the question is always whether this is possible and who pays it. We can say proudly: Yes, we can afford that! Why can we afford that? – I would like to repeat it: because we have managed well in recent years, because we even had surpluses in 2019. I'll hold on to this. That would never have happened to the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] The second essential basis for our being able to afford this is – not a question at all – the low level of interest rates. I find it remarkable that, despite rising debt in the budgets for the next few years, we have less interest rates. This is a sign of the excellent credit quality of our economy, and this is an aspect that we can really be very proud of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: Mr President,... such a pot!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] Third – this is also very important to me – has also been said by economist Kocher in an interview: It is true that the growth forecasts due to the travel warnings had to be reversed due to the first and second lockdowns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would like to point out – Mrs Double Bauer, you have mentioned this too, and Mr Krainer has issued it as the basic currency of his group – that: We have received updated data from the Wifo at the beginning of the budget consultations in the Budget Committee, which has been incorporated. It makes no sense, however, to base the budget on almost new figures every 14 days, because of course we do not know how things will develop. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] One thing I would like to say: It may also be that the numbers are God's thanks in a different direction. If we all stick to the measures to stop the corona pandemic, if we have confidence, if we have optimism, if the vaccine is there, then the numbers can go back in the other direction. This is also the basis for our being able to provide these assistance, because we are a strong economy and we can be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60912	Mr Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e60934	Mr President. Estimated government members! It would, of course, be appealing now to respond to the adventurous theses of the colleague. I will resist this temptation and instead propose a thing which is quite simple and which we all agreed on this morning in the field of culture, namely that, if the arms stores are already open, it must be possible that the bookstores can at least deliver their books. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Of course, it would be appealing to use the best time to look back and see how absurd it is that XXXLutz is open and at the same time to be the theater that humanic has and at the same time to be the museums. I will also resist this temptation. But one thing – it has to do with the budget – I suggest to support the small bookstores and the small bookshops and to enable them to make de facto a sale. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Today at 11.30 p.m., the bookstores were there, we were all in agreement, we all spoke in the cameras. I'm already very excited whether everyone will get up today at 6:00 p.m. Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[17:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61050	The application is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61074	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Finanzminister! After three days of budget debate and discussion, unfortunately, what we have criticized at the beginning of this week is manifesting our criticism of your budget. For the second time, you submit a budget to the House, which we already know is that the figures will not vote. In March, they did not even have the grace to calculate and budget the pandemic costs in the approach. Diesmal It's very similar to you: You have not taken into account the follow-up costs of the second lockdown in this budget. Even if we look beyond it and accept this adaptation of the figures, a budget like you have presented will not be in a budget as we need it in a crisis. From our point of view, we need a crisis budget, and a crisis budget must be characterised by several points. On the one hand, we need initiatives in favour of jobs – we see one of the biggest unemployment in the Second Republic – and we need help and support for companies that can be calculated and depend on. It is the worst thing for the economy that the reliability of politics is not there. The economy does not know what to do and how to react to it. Regulations, measures – Mr Köllner has referred to it –: At the travel agencies, everywhere there is actually a chaos. This is the most harmful for Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second: What is crucial now is a relief from small incomes, a tax reform that relieves small incomes and calls for a contribution from the corporations and the millionaires. They do exactly the opposite: They burden the pensioners by removing the hacker scheme tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, the third point – and this is at least so important – is investment. Now it is impossible to say that this budget does not include any investment – that is not true for the environment and climate – but I would like to give an example of how and in any area of investment would be possible. Throughout Austria is a very massive topic: It's about the height of the rents. Living in this country is simply no longer manageable in many areas. I come from Vorarlberg, because the rental costs already take a lot away from income. Especially in times when one is short-time or unemployed, this is an additional burden. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My colleague Ruth Becher made a proposal yesterday, which is reasonable: Now would be the possibility that the state, the federal government, will invest in housing. This would be very easy to do with the European Investment Bank's resources, it can be financed. If we work hard now, we can make it that we build up to 30 000 apartments a year, that would be 150,000 apartments in a legislative period. This would relieve the housing market, stabilize rents, make living quiet, boost the economy and relieve people. This would be a sustainable, sustainable policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61135	Mr Tashner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61156	I just said a brief comment to Mr Drozda that everyone agreed that the small bookstores should be opened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] I was there, but I was not of this opinion. I was of the opinion that it is more reasonable to let caution be exercised, and rather it is recommended to book dealers to set up an Austrian online platform and sell their books there.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61214	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61240	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On Tuesday, on the first day, we have already discussed the situation of the communities in the general debate. After this debate, many calls for help, appeals from mayors, parish councillors and citizens have reached me, we like to do everything we can to help the communities immediately and effectively. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is the situation in the communities? – Many companies, especially small businesses, individual companies, do not know whether they are standing up to this crisis, many have already given up. The municipalities suffer bitter losses in income and local taxes. We have always spoken of about 2.5 billion euros this year. Mr Hanger, you said there were no current figures. – There are very recent figures on how drastic the effects of this crisis will be, namely from your home, Federal Minister. The losses in incomes, in these municipal incomes, amount to more than 6 billion euros for next year – and estimated for next year – for countries and communities! They said when we were 2.5 years old. Well, we've got the 1 billion euros from the Community Investment Act. - How's that going? The communities now need our immediate support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do they need them? – Schools, kindergartens, senior facilities, water, wastewater, infrastructure – ecological and transport infrastructure –: How should the communities be able to achieve this in the face of these losses, let alone expand it? They say – I have now heard from my colleagues – that the municipal billions are so well accepted. – Not even half of the funds have been collected up to date. It must be said that 50 percent co-financing is necessary. What does that mean for financially weak communities? – This means that they do not have equal access to this funding pot. This is not in our sense, and it is unfortunate that our funding model with the 250 euros per inhabitants per municipality has been rejected by you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want the communities to be actively and effectively supported immediately. You must now be able to make investments. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, we have heard that 6 billion euros are lost in countries and communities. The appeal can only be loud – and it comes from us vehemently: Please take care of our communities at last! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61411	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61436	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At the end of this plenary session, I have to speak again. For the one group, public service is a cost driver – lunch break and pensions and so on and so on. For us liberals, the public service is a very important institution for this Republic, and I thank once again the more than 140 000 public servants; National officials, municipal officials, nurses, compulsory school teachers, teachers, police officers, soldiers, judicial guards and so on. You can now see in the crisis when you go through the streets of Vienna, the police who are equipped with heavy equipment and who ensure all our safety in this Republic. You can see how important the public service is. If you look more closely at the budget and see how this budgeting is partly done with these professional groups in 2021 and how underestimating you are, then I have to say that it is shameful – and not just that. It's not just about money, it's about dealing with the public service in general – it's just about the compulsory school teachers and compulsory school teachers. One makes a lockdown in spring, closes the schools; then many things have already indicated that this overly elusive federal government probably, when the numbers rise, plans something similar again in autumn, but it has always been preached: The compulsory schools remain open. Just a few days before the lockdown entered into force, it was said that the compulsory schools are not closed. Yesterday, one could clearly read on the face of Federal Minister Fässmann that what one has listed there does not find the agreement of the Minister of Education. One has prepared the secondary schools more poorly than right for school closures, for e-learning. But what has not been done is to prepare compulsory schools for it; and compulsory schools suffer. I don't know how many teachers have turned to the government groups. With us, many compulsory school teachers have expressed their horror, their protest about this approach. They've always been clicked on: You have no distance learning, you have no e-learning, the schools, the compulsory schools remain open! And then you go here and just close the compulsory schools. That's absolutely not all right! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a crime against the children, not a question at all. You know, Mandatory school is primary school, the most important part. What you fail there and don't learn, you pick up very, very badly again. All those who have children themselves will know that, but so be it. However, I am also concerned with the teachers who are pushed into this situation unprepared and who are then expected to train our children – our future – as best as possible. So for the public service, this government has nothing left, and I look towards ÖVP. You've been entitled to give up for a long time for the public service, for the officials, and I'm telling you: You will feel this in every election of personnel, and the Federal Government will soon feel it because people are more than ate. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] This is not only about money, it is also about dealing, it is also about how to make certain things known. This is also about a certain outline of the government bank, because you find certain things funny. We no longer find that funny, and the population does not find it funny. They will also be presented in the government for this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I hope that you will take something from the budget deliberations. You might be able to improve some of them a little bit. You can also learn, it's never too late for that. Mr Blümel, you We have already been very, very disappointed with some of the figures you have presented; but yes, let's continue to try, let's see what this brings to the public service! A tearer is not this budget, but we did not expect that anyway – unfortunately God. It would be important, however, because the budget is the basis for the state to put something on its feet. If you look at this budget this way, you know that there will not go much further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61511	Mr Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61532	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Following on from my previous speaker, I would like to say: Public service today really has a good day. 1.45 percent increase in reference has been standardized, and I think that's a full success. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Lush: inflation!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Too little!]] It is thanks to the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Chancellor. In these times there is really a high burden, especially for officials, I speak, for example, of teachers, police officers, of the Federal Army, but also of all the others in the administration. I mentioned this last night: It is indeed true that they represent the state and fund it. I say to colleagues from the NEOS, who always want a slender state: I'm glad that he's not so slender – this may also be related to my own figure – but above all, I'm really glad that we have a structure that makes it possible to get through this situation. These 1.45 percent are in times like this really a dignified and good conclusion to reference. I've heard the official and civil servants bashing again: They're straightening it out! – No, they deserve it! [[Abg. Listen: Keep talking! It's all right!]] By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61600	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61621	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Rudolf Goldscheid was the Doctor of a certain Joseph Schumpeter. A hundred years ago, in the context of its financial sociology, this gold medal recognized that the budget is the naked skeleton of politics freed from every amazing ideology. Now you were able to pursue a debate for three days, felt – how many, Sepp Schellhorn? – 150 000 thanks from members of the ÖVP and now in this discussion a confession, a real confession, delivered by honourable Member Karlheinz Kopp and once again by honourable Members, hear: It would do nothing if we were to renegotiate in the Committee on Budgets if we decided on the budget in December; we do not know today that we would do it in December. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Header]] I don't know, and we wouldn't know next year either. – So more about the recognition of this performance and the abilities of this federal government and the government groups cannot be expected at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is soon three weeks since Mr Badelt from the IHS' Wifo and Kocher told us that they have an extreme scenario, after which our economy is shrinking at 9 percent this year and that growth is also falling significantly next year. That's what you should have adjusted, but you couldn't, because: You can't. My observation on this is: They today decide with government majority to present a budget, which is the expression of the inability to know, one that is also appropriate. We take note of that. Nor is it surprising that the four critical questions of Jan Krainer were not answered until the end of this debate, because they probably cannot be answered, and the hospitals still have too little money. – So much for the durability of your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61675	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61697	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! Mr Matznetter, it is true that a budget is also drawn up on the basis of economic researchers' forecasts. That's how we agree. Have you ever wondered how many budget forecasts there have been this year that have already looked quite different - partly one, two weeks later - a short time later? – And you are making yourself up and saying that the Minister of Finance cannot do so because he is based on forecasts drawn up immediately before a budget decision! At some point, there is a budget that we have to decide so that we can give the Austrians appropriate security, an outlook, which means the figures cast into the budget for politics and for the people in this country. There were many forecasts, and unfortunately they have also proved to be false again and again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This is not an accusation to the economic researchers, but it is a fact that we are living in times that are restless and not always predictable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is why this accusation – you are an auditor – is actually not serious, and you know it very well. [[Abg. Matznetter:... You can't! That's easy!]] However, I would like to address a few points raised in the debate. I think it was Mrs. Doppelbauer – correct me! –: You talked about peanut distribution, right? Then I apologize, then it was someone else. [[Call the NEOS: She wasn't!]] One of the previous speakers spoke about the distribution of Mr Peanuts' Minister of Finance. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] - Excuse me, yes, I'm sorry. Then I ask you: The increase in small pensions, the reduction of the entrance tax rate for all taxpayers in order to strengthen the purchasing power, the additional support for families – are all peanuts from your point of view? - We don't believe that. Or the support of companies – the investment premium, the revenue replacement, the short-time work for employees –: It is billions that are being moved to ensure stability as we need it now. Billions – these are not peanuts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One last point, which the SPÖ always highly criticised: One of the previous speakers spoke about aid for corporations. Now I ask you: Firstly, do not companies employ employees in this country? Do they not therefore have a right to appropriate support so that these employees are kept in employment? – I really ask you that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Apart from the fact that these assistance is also covered in accordance with EU state aid law, I say to you: [[Call to the SPÖ: What about the tax benefits of the companies?]] They are the ones who always ask why we have not helped this single large group, and They then turn to the speaker's desk here and say we support the corporations! Think about what you want! [[Call the SPÖ: Tax benefits!]] We know what we want: We want to ensure as much employment as possible in this country, stability, and this is what this Federal Government is doing with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e61802	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? – That is not the case either. Before we enter the voting process, I may ask the club members if we can vote. This is the case. Then we can start voting. We shall first vote on the motions for referral back to committee. On item 10 there is a referral request from Mr Krainer. I therefore have to vote on the proposal on BFRG 2021 to 2024 in 448 of the Supplements to the Budget Committee. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. On item 11 there is also a referral request from Mr Krainer. I can, in turn, vote on the draft Federal Finance Act 2021, and on investments in 380 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 449 of the Supplements to the Budget Committee. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is also the minority, therefore rejected. We shall come to the vote on item 10 on the agenda, which I shall make separately on each of the Committee's proposals: Draft federal law adopting the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024 in 448 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Obernosterer, Mr Schwarz, Mr Schwarz, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I should like to vote on the part concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Obernosterer, Jakob Schwarz, tabled an additional or amendment concerning § 4. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is in favour of this, I can also ask for a sign of approval. – That is again the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for the adoption of this draft law, I ask for a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Bundesfinanzgesetz 2021, including investments in 380 of the Supplements, taking into account the changes resulting from the Committee's report 449 of the Supplements. For this there is a desire for separate vote. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts of Appendix I affected by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of Appendices I to IV, and the text of the Federal Finance Act 2021. I shall have the motions for resolutions submitted to the draft Federal Finance Act 2021, together with the amendments, voted after the third reading in the order of their submission. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the breakdowns 01 to 06 of Annex I, as amended by the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Now we are voting on the remaining parts of Appendix I and Appendices I.a to IV and on the text of the Federal Financial Act 2021, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template in 380 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 449 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions submitted to item 11 in the order in which they are put in place. Parliament's motion for a resolution on the creation of a prohibition law for political Islam. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Prince, colleagues, on ‘Funding stop for political Islam by the NPO Fund’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Drozda, colleagues, on 'The dedication of all revenue from the digital tax on media promotion'. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Petra Steger, colleagues, on ‘ensure sufficient movement and open sports venues’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Drozda, colleagues, on ‘Repair of revenue in the lockdown’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Reifberger, Members of Parliament, on the increase of the basic salary for the Federal Museums, the Austrian National Library and the Federal Theatre from 2021. Who is for this, I ask him to agree accordingly. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament on 'the current situation in Western Sahara'. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Kucharovich, colleagues, on the protection of the Hungarian LGBT community. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on ‘better budgetary and human resources of the judiciary’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on ‘Inclusion of the inmates of judicial institutions into statutory health insurance’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is also the minority, rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Ries, colleagues, on ‘financial improvement of executives’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on 'fair pensions for women'. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Rainer Wimmer, Members of Parliament, on ‘the discount-free pension after 45 years of work must remain’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Belakovich, colleagues, on the maintenance and adaptation of non-refundable pensions with 540 contribution months for all occupational groups. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich, colleagues, on '1,000 euro-Austria voucher'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Kucher, colleagues, on ‘a strong public health system’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser, colleagues, on ‘Debulation under the Epidemic Law on the management of the COVID-19 crisis’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Bösch, Mr Laimer, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, Mr De Clercq, on ‘the necessary budgetary resources for a constitutional state of the army’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Bösch, colleagues, on 'Cost replacement for military assistance and assistance'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Angerer, fellow Members, on ‘the urgent implementation of the fixed-cost grant II and the possibility of a turnover replacement for all companies also indirectly affected by the second lockdown’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cornelia Ecker, colleagues, on ‘fair and sustainable distribution of the forest fund’s public funds’. Who is for this, I ask him to agree accordingly. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Cornelia Ecker, Members of Parliament, on the reception of the EAFRD support measure ‘Social Affairs’ (Social Services, SDL) in the rural development programme. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schmiedlechner, colleagues, on the freedom of movement for agriculture. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Köllner, colleagues, on 'Retrieval the Travel Industry'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser, fellow Members, on "Helping applicants – Ending shocks in the fixed-cost grant and in the replacement of turnover". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Hammerschmid, colleagues, on ‘enhanced expansion of all day schools’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Brückl, colleagues, on ‘a sufficient budget for school closure and lockdown losers’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Members of the European Parliament, Members of Parliament, on ‘no budget for Islamic fundamentalism at universities’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Kucharovich, colleagues, on ‘Supporting non-profit student homes’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Holzleitner, colleagues, on the ‘wide implementation of the opportunity index’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That too is the minority, rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Martin Graf, colleagues, on ‘no forced exmatriculation of students such as Sigrid Maurer and Sebastian Kurz’. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oberrauner, colleagues, on the strengthening of the digital skills of all teachers. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on ‘implementing comprehensive gender budgeting’. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen to vote in favour of this. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Members of Parliament, on the increase in the budget for women and equality. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That too is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Belakovich, colleagues, on the increase in the net rate of replacement in relation to unemployment benefit (COVID-19). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, on the increase in unemployment insurance benefits. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Petra Wimmer, Members of Parliament, on ‘Achievable billions for the development of childcare facilities’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Holzleitner's motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Children have rights! Focus on children’s rights.”. Whoever is to do so is asked for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Alois Stöger, Members of Parliament, on the rapid implementation of the 1-2-3 ticket. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, on the budget for a National Covid-19-Evidence Task Force. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Hafenecker, Members of Parliament, on ‘Increasing public transport – implementation of ‘near traffic billions’ now!’. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Delete payments for climate change measures abroad in the course of the COVID-19 economic crisis’. Those who are in favour of it, I ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – This has remained in the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schmiedlechner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'bining CO2 by humus building'. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wöger.]] Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Drozda, Mr Schellhorn, Mr President, on the "promoting of contactless book collection stations in the lockdown". Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That too is the minority, rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Greiner, colleagues, on the security of municipal finances in the crisis. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:51:08]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-17-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00062_d8e62558	I am entitled to announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications from 993/A(E) to 1062/A(E). The agenda is exhausted. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 5.51 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed. Missing finish! / as always inserted:
