ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e3947	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll get the 53. Open a meeting based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 51. Meeting and the official minutes of the 52th meeting. Meeting of 23. September 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. The representatives of Alexander Melchior, Johannes Schmauzenschlager, Mag, are reported as prevented today. Ulrike Fischer, Lukas Hammer, Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogluwer, Dipl.-Ing. Karin, double farmer, Mag. Felix Eypeltauer, Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarreund Josef Schellhorn. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4005	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4192	I inform you that the Fourth Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4213	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for the written question 3652/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance, concerning “The closing with the billion tomb for a false asylum, immigration and integration policy in Austria and Europe – Austria needs to deal urgently with every euro for the victims of the black and green Corona disaster!” The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 1 p.m. I may announce that the ORF will send this meeting from 13.00 to 7.15 p.m., then it will be transmitted in the TV library comment. I can interrupt the session until 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4262	I'll start the interrupted session again. On the current occasion, and in particular because we have received numerous references on the subject of the wearing of masks by Members in the plenary room, I can say a few words – including for our spectators, whom I warmly welcome – to the explanation: On the basis of the free mandate of Members, it is not possible for me to order a masquerade. It is at the discretion of every Member to protect himself and others by wearing a mask, especially if one leaves his place. For our visitors on the Gallery is the wearing of masks duty, but the free mandate requires that I make no regulations in this regard. I would also like to explain this in particular for our spectators. But once again I may also appeal to all employees to protect themselves and not endanger others. You know the current figures very, very well. To the Rules of Procedure? – Mrs Schwarz, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4307	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I would like to join in what the President of the National Council has just said. We know that we still have a high level of new infections today – over 1,000. The number of people actually ill, the persons in the hospital and the deaths also increases. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] If I look around here in the plenary room, there are many – thank God the excesses – who are rightly concerned and are progressing with a good example. I've met outside on the corridors but some who don't wear this mouth-nose protection, and I'm wondering why it is. [[Abg. Amesbauer:, who does not wear a mouth-nose protection (winking) Hello!]] These are precisely those who are impoverished, who are at risk of our health and are thus endangering our economy. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Lie! Lie! Lie! Lie!]] They also support this by saying that asylum seekers and asylum seekers are also raising numbers – that is definitely not true! [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] My appeal to all my colleagues: Many people outside wear this mouth-nose protection every day, whether this is the waitress, the bufferer, the doctors, the pharmacists, whoever, when shopping, in commerce and commerce. [[Abg. Luck: Naughty! To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It has become a matter of course for them to protect themselves and others, for this is what it is all about. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They can still cry out so loud – thank God the reason in Austria is greater than the conspiracy theories of the unharmed. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Another thing, because I see the Minister for Health: Stop saying that only older people and people with a predisease are at risk! [[Call: What is that supposed to do?]] [[Call the NEOS:to the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is not to the Rules of Procedure!]] My mom's gonna be 80 tomorrow. Is your life worth more than mys with 58 or less? [[Abg. Schnedlitz: This has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Call: What does mother's birthday have to do with the rules of procedure?]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Amesbauer.]] My appeal is for all reasonable ones, including colleagues, to protect themselves and others. Those who do not, definitely endanger their and my health and our economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4524	Mr Amesbauer, I give you a call for an order for the expression ‘sausage’. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] We have the situation that the debates of the Rules of Procedure are unfortunately always used by God for such a thing. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mrs Meinl-Reisinger spoke on the Rules of Procedure and then Mr Kickl. Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger, on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4584	Mr President. I am somewhat annoyed – because reason was the case – that, as it were, started by your words, then Mrs Schwarz used debates on the Rules of Procedure for political agitation. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes exactly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] The The whole situation is in a situation that definitely does not need one, namely, even more reasonable polemics and polarization in that country. Mr President, I can't remember that in the last presidents we have spoken expressly on this subject of oral nose protection. We have taken extensive safety precautions here, so that it is quite possible to sit on the square even without the protection of the mouth and nose. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Bureau) What you are doing!]] I therefore call on you, as President and President of the entire Parliament, not to go into a presentation here with your introductory words, which may give rise to the impression or perhaps to the idea that some do not behave responsibly here. I strongly reject this for my group, which takes the issue very seriously and very seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4658	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very clear: I just said the mouth-nose protection should be worn when you leave the place, you are not protected; the situation is different on the square. The other is the respective clubs. [[Intervening calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Hafenecker.]] Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4691	Mr President. I would like to point out – and I believe that this statement is now necessary for the time being – that you are obviously unable to hold an objective Presidency even in plenary. [[He was in favour of FPÖ, SPÖ and NEOS.]] It would not have required this proof at all, because Mr Schwarz's speech had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure at all. Now I'm going to tell you something else about what you've been talking about: They have transformed this Parliament into a plexiglass parliament. By the way, they also sit up there without a mask at the top of the chair and always tear up their mouths. [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] The investment in these things has cost 90 000 euros and serves precisely the purpose that we can sit here without these masks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] Otherwise, let the whole thing be dismantled, because we are not with the people of the shields, Mr President, and this must also be written to the ÖVP in the main book! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another note: I mean, I don't know which experts you're following, obviously you're only able to have one-sided perceptions, because you know very well that this mask discussion is quite controversial, not only in Austria, but up to the World Health Organization. I still have to get rid of a remark, ladies and gentlemen, because you see other irresponsibility and the danger of infecting others: The only infections that have existed in this House so far have occurred in clubs that wear the masks, and now you are in line to come once in front of your own door!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4767	For business treatment, Klubobmann Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4792	Mr President. I have to say now that I do not fully understand the content of the discussion. I also do not understand which paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure you refer to in your comments, because § 14 para. In my opinion, as regards the definition of the rules of procedure, there are certain possibilities which you have now disputed. The second thing I would like to address is the following: I do not fully understand the EIA's access to this issue, because we have always agreed to adopt measures for each meeting, and I can well remember that for this meeting, among other things, it was a far-reaching wish of the EIA to return to the unopened seat order. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There would have been other ways of dealing with this situation, Mr President. I would suggest that we carry out these debates with more understanding and less emotions, because it is about human health and it is about all of us together, and that emotions should remain out and reasonable decisions should be taken in the presidential. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4828	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, but also all the other Members! You know very well that the statements on the Rules of Procedure have always been used in the past to make statements in this form. That is why we would also be in the Bureau - - - I can show you the minutes. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I understand – I am now on the floor – that you only want to allow a word to be spoken on the Rules of Procedure, but then I ask everyone to do so. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker and Mr Steger]] We will be able to discuss in the President-in-Office in a timely manner tomorrow the conditions under which we will meet at the end of the day. Why I said this at the beginning has the simple reason that we get numerous addresses and there are discussions about them: Why do we have to wear masks and not parliamentarians? – My statements have served to clarify the population. [[Abg. Brückl: A good question!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We are now going into the debate. [[13:19:06]] Mr KO Herbert Kicklund's urgent question to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning "The closing with the billion tomb for a false asylum, immigration and integration policy in Austria and Europe – Austria needs every euro for the victims of the black and green Corona disaster!"
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e4882	We arrive at urgent treatment of the written question 3652/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e5178	Mr Klubobmann Kickl, on the grounds of the request made pursuant to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes, give the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e5199	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The whole thing seems to have taken a little time to answer the questions, as if the Minister of Finance, who made it to us with some delay, still needs a little time. Otherwise, it is impossible to explain this funny pre-plank. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Anyway, I'm glad you found the way here. I have already been worried because all of Austria knows about your oblivion, and I have been afraid that you may not find Parliament anymore, Minister of Finance, but now you are here and we can go into the matter. I believe that today's special meeting is a very important purpose, and this important purpose is that, in front of the eyes of the interested public, we should once again deal with all the visibleness, with all the superficialness, with all the heartlessness and with all the unambitiousness, I would like to say, this turquoise resurgence along with your green annex. These predicates, which I have now used, are regarded as collective for the government, but they are very special to you, Minister of Finance. We have the situation that we have been in the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War. The Director-General of Statistics Austria recently made an alarm. He said that in the second quarter, economic performance decreased by 14.3 percent. This is a huge valley ride that we have to do with. In individual sectors, for example in the area of accommodation and gastronomy, we have a 61 per cent drop, and now you are working with your paper industry and your loop-and-run disaster to also let out the rest of the light, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 18 percent minus in industry – and your site guarantees are not worth the paper they are written on. A minus, a budget deficit this year of 40 billion euros, next year it is expected to be 16 billion euros – this will eventually have to be paid back by someone in this Republic. 400,000 people are unemployed, about the same number of people in short-time work, with the very legitimate concern that after this short-term work a phase of unemployment comes – and so on, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the indicators, that is the status quo, these are the parameters of your new, your economic and social normality, which you have supported from this federal government about this country. This is a dramatic situation, otherwise it cannot be said, and everyone is now staring at the Minister for Finance and wondering: Yeah, what's the Minister of Finance doing now? Do you know what the tragic finding is? – In this situation, the Minister of Finance of the Republic is going to turn his post into a half-day job. This is what the Minister of Finance of the Republic is doing: One half of the day he may be dealing with the affairs of the Ministry of Finance, the other half of the day he is ringing more badly than right in the Vienna election campaign – in the luggage a suitcase with spiritual thieves, with the foreigner programm of the Freedom Party, which he tries to bring to the people like a political hehler. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the main activity of our Minister of Finance, instead of using every second to ensure that the economy, the labour market, our social system comes out of the intensive care station you have brought it into – this experimental coalition, I would like to say almost that this obscene combination of “House of Cards” and Greta-Thunberg-Apologists, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a single revelation in terms of official understanding, as is your budget preview you gave before the summer of this year. Just to remember: That was where you forgot the many zeros, which has been a single revelation in relation to the expertise. I think that this inadequacy and this lack of passion, Mr. Finanzminister, who is mentioned here and who is also noted in the Vienna election campaign, will soon reach the extent and dimension of your forgetfulness – and then it will be really critical in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! I don't know where you invest your passion and your desire and where you live it. I know. Not. It's not the numbers, it's not the budget and it's not your job. I don't know, maybe it's the literary world of a certain Ovid. I read that Ovid is your favorite poet. That is why I have tried to bring along a suitable quote for you, which also describes your status quo as a biterl, and I do not wish to abstain from this, Minister of Finance. I quote: ‘Qui non est hodie, scratch minus aptus Eritrean’. Mr. Leichtfried, before you start gouging: That was Latin. [[Cheerfulness with the FPÖ and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] I translate it for you, I will do you the favour, because this quote also has a certain right to be applied to you. Toss ears and hear what Ovid said! Ovid said: Whoever is not suitable today will be even less tomorrow. – Bingo, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a classic double hit, I would like to say! Bingo! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a dramatic situation, and it is because your place of business is at the heart of huge challenges, both in Austria and at European level. One is this coronahystry, which has taken possession not only of Austria but also of the whole European Union and beyond and which continues to fuel you with a wrong policy. This strange debate on the Rules of Procedure was a small example of how this is being done. And so you manage to bring Austria to the red lists worldwide. In this way, you can provoke a travel warning after another by squeezing such nonsense and straightening a second wave. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, this is the not-ending sense of illegal immigration, the systematic abuse of the asylum system, which continues unhindered before your eyes, as if nothing had been at all. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary against this background – but you do not! – finally, a detailed debate on the issue of the use and distribution of Austrian funds in this country. Yes, we are talking about distribution justice, ladies and gentlemen. The interested observer will find that there is a single party who interprets this term patriotically, in the sense of: Austria first!, and that is the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the face of the biggest crisis since the Second World War, finally check your expenditure structure! Do what every reasonable housewife – I hope I can still use the vocabulary without being classified as sexist – would do in such a crisis! Think about what you need and what you don't need, what may even be harmful and what you can do – and you'll be on it, Minister of Finance, that you'll find billions in Windseailes that you need urgently to alleviate the suffering of the Austrian population, the entrepreneurs and the workers, billions that are not going to go down in other areas that we can do well and are happy to miss out on because they are used where it is even counterproductive for our Austrian people! Finally, this would be a turning-up in Austrian financial policy in line with the motto of Austria first. And if you do this, then take advantage of the opportunity that lies in this crisis – you alone think, I don't even think about it, and that's why I'm helping you a little bit on the jumps! Example of asylum: How do you say? A hotspot – no, these days one says: a cluster – a cluster of irrationality and a cluster of irrationality, that is the asylum policy of this federal government. I know that the ÖVP likes to spit big toes and pretends to be Whether there would be a restrictive wind now, as if one were conceiving the matter and cracking, but that is propaganda, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise Minister of the Interior Nehammer would not come to order a study to find out why Afghan, Syrian and other asylum seekers choose Austria as destination. – After that, I do not need a study, ladies and gentlemen, since I only have to look at the impact of this clientele in the social system, then I know. You can save the money. A single cluster of irrationality and irrationality, and the numbers speak a language other than your propagandistic self-examinations: By August of this year alone, we had 8 000 asylum applications, 730 of which are unaccompanied minors, most of whom are 690, between 14 and 18 years old, not small children who are always spoken of in connection with unaccompanied minors, no, no, half-growth, half-strong from Afghanistan, for example, these are the unaccompanied minors who came to the country in the first half of the year, and they ask themselves: How is all this possible? In March of this year, Minister of the Interior Nehammer announced de facto a stop to asylum applications. He said: Nobody comes in without a valid health certificate. – Yes, you can tell someone else that all these 8,000 people have entered the country with a negative corona test! This shows that you work with air and trust and deceive the people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am therefore saying this because this system is devouring a total of billions. 2 billion euros a year can They're easy to budget. You only need to follow the changes of this system: Basic care, family benefits, integration, social benefits, the judicial authorities where the NGOs we have tried to take out – now they are inside again. The money is running together, and we're talking about billions of money – on the other hand, the 25 million euros you've loosened overnight for Moria's arsonists and blackmailers, a shack, Mr. Finanzminister! Now I tell you what a free Minister of Finance, a Free Federal Chancellor and a Free Minister for the Interior would do: You'd turn the system around! They would reduce asylum to its core. That's what's necessary, because nothing else says if you say: Stop illegal migration – this is our project! –, don't manage, don't manage. This is quite different from what the European Union wants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else would make a free financial minister: He would once ask the question of worthlessness. Let's see what the value of asylum seekers and Austrians looks like with you: They are prepared to spend EUR 20.6 per day on the care of asylum seekers who, as we know, most of them are no more than economic refugees. Calculate this over the month, colleague Wöginger! There is more to it than what makes you jump out of the hardness fund for an entrepreneur. This one is fed with 500 euros – if it gets something at all, because many wait to this day. This shows the wrong values you work with in this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a false form of distribution. This is a redistribution from the national to the foreigners, and this is the last thing we can need in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, very much. I remember when I spoke to you about the 1.50 euros of recognition money – for the asylum seekers to swipe the ground in their accommodation and clean their own dishes, as should be common everywhere – and through the exit centres. Here you have re-interpreted the Catholic Social Doctrine and explained to me that the ÖVP never spends it in its own ranks. I say to you one, ladies and gentlemen: This is a misinterpretation of charity, which you show there, which is a misinterpretation that leads to the disadvantage of the Austrian population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next waste field, minimum security: Half of the minimum insurance beneficiaries in Austria are foreigners. Now I ask you: Is the minimum guarantee made for this? – Obviously there are different opinions. Our opinion is: No, she's not made for that. It is intended as a social security system for the Austrian population, but not to be permanently estranged and abused. When we were in the government, we promised to fight this abuse by saying that we were shortening these achievements and at least linking integration needs to them. You buried this project on the first day after the arrival of the Greens. They have dropped it like the proverbial hot potato, a funeral of the first class – and such a thing wants to be a party that makes value-conservative politics! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know that if you make cuts in social benefits – that is what you can look away from the Danes – you will achieve a reduction in immigration, and that is a good thing. Then we hit two flies with one flap: We are saving ourselves money – for social expenditure – which we can give to the Austrians, and at the same time we are preventing the continuation of the population exchange – that is something we do not want, ladies and gentlemen, that is also something that we do not want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are, in fact, also promoting a system of counter- and parallel societies through this system of social assistance in this country. These are subsidies for counter- and parallel societies that all of us do not think well. The ripe fruits of this multicultural policy, which also You can see them in the form of street battles in favourites, in the form of moral guards who are active as a reserve police in Austria, or in the form of machetes that take place in the middle of Vienna on the bright day. – These are the achievements you are promoting with this policy. That must be done, and that is why I am talking about a distribution debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing: You can also take a look at the prisons where more than half of the inmates are not Austrian citizens. Well, that's where we're back with the values. Of the 8 600 inmates you take about half and multiply it with the 130 euros that cost in full care per day. This means that the Austrian population spends 570 000 euros on foreign criminals per day. Do you know what a free justice minister would do? – Prison in the home country; and if that doesn't happen, we will build a prison somewhere else – definitely where it's cheaper – and bring these people outside of the country because they have simply and grippingly lost nothing here, ladies and gentlemen! That's how redistribution works! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A word on the European Union, because it would also be necessary to make a change there: I have your words and the words of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. Before the negotiations on membership contributions to the European Union, you opened up your mouth so far that a salt rod would have fit in across the country We cannot pay any more! [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] We Are we going there? The British are gone, the Union is smaller, we can't pay for it anymore! – The exact opposite has come out: Of course, we pay more than we paid before! You fell down! You have broken a promise and you are investing again at the expense of the Austrians, because of this multi-annual budget of the European Union, only 73 billion euros go into an administration that we have now seen in connection with Corona, that it is not capable of anything at all, but only 22.7 billion euros in the so-called border protection, to which all of us put the feather on the hat. It's wasting money! I would rather invest in Austria, in the Austrian population and in our own border protection, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are in the European Union on Othmar-Karas courses, and that can't mean anything good! This also applies to this current project Next Generation EU. Even there you have opened your mouth a long way and said, only credit, probably knowing that those countries that are likely to suffer from the corona crisis will not be involved. Now it is true that more than half, 390 billion euros, of the 750 billion euros we are talking about are grants. Grant is nothing but a preeminent word for money gift. They gave the money to those who are knocking on the doors of the European Union in good irregularity, because they did not, and did not, bring the states – I would say, the stable – under control in their own country. But the Austrians are supposed to burn for it, in a situation in which we need every cent in our own country, ladies and gentlemen, very much! It can't go on like this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The worst, however, is that, in this sum of 750 billion euros under the cover of health protection, investment in Turkey, which you are supposed to fight so much in your restrictive course, is still being manned. That's really the last thing! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, allow me finally to address one more word to colleagues at Lightenfried – complication Lightenfried has to be said since the last session, ÖVP complication Lightenfried! He made a press conference yesterday, in which he said that the Freedom Party has missed its theme with this special meeting. Well, you have to let that break on your tongue! So if you are now working to protect Austrian jobs, if you want to protect our social system, if you want more money for your own unemployed, and if you don't want to promote immigration to the social state, if you want our children to have a chance for education, that they learn something in school, that they have a future, and not that everyone who comes from Afghanistan or elsewhere, a social worker, a psychologist, a legal adviser and I don't know what else gets, along with five integration courses, if you want to have the fight against poverty in their own country, so that there is no child poverty, no poverty, no family poverty, and no more, and not that the money is being eaten up by the Bones in the European Union and further subsidized the Pleite countries, then from the point of view of social democracy you have missed the topic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Yes, complication Lightenness, I am really glad about your shaking openness, because it expresses the state of your party very, very well in 2020. They are not a party of small people – not at all – no party for the workers in this country, no party for the socially weak! Do you know what matters to you? Is it? – Your socialist hypermoral, that’s important! Stepping into the world revolution in the sense of good – whether your own population has something of it is completely wretched. This is the socialist model, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of opposition, the socialists are opportunists, and that is the reason why and how - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e5517	The final sentence, please! [[Prolonged condolences with the FPÖ for the Abg leaving the speaker's seat. Kickl.]] Since I was asked by honourable Member Vogl to give a call for an order for the term “brand pen” I can answer that I always look at the speeches in connection with them afterwards. We know that Mr Klubobmann Kickl always scrambles at the edge where it is about the dignity of the house, that is nothing new in this form. [[Abg. Kickl: You and the dignity of the house, this is your own chapter!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] – You can speak again, honourable Member. You don't need to be so excited. Mr Blümel, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e5571	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Now that the passion of the FPÖ, when it comes to migration, is exhausted in getting foam in front of the mouth and as much as possible accusing all those who are in the hall or not in the hall, we know that; our passion is the solution of problems. This really brings the Austrians something about migration. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I already know that it is annoyed that you have proved that FPÖ is not governmentable and that is why we are the only ones who can solve the problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] So this emotion is also defying, and there I would also have a philosophical Latin saying: Si tacuisses, philosopher menisses. - You certainly don't need to go Google. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] That this special meeting so soon before the 11th. It is certainly not a coincidence in October, but it is, of course, the right of opposition, and of course I am happy to respond to the questions. [[Abg. Hafenecker:... Maskball...!]] The corona pandemic is first and foremost a health-political challenge, which should be clear to all of us now, and the number of infections is rising in many places in Austria. This is a fact, even though you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, cannot be impressed by these facts in the debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] These increasing figures are the cause of travel warnings, of necessary restrictions and thus also of negative economic consequences for our businesses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] If the FPÖ speaks in this context of masquerade pressure or of the mask as a symbol of fear, panic and oppression, then I find the alarming and a really fatal signal to the Austrian population, because we all know that higher levels of infection also mean higher unemployment, and with your behaviour, ladies and gentlemen, you risk not only jobs, but also Austrian companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[New call for tender Riser]] That's why: Please also join in preventing the spread of the virus! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, we in the Federal Government have not only focused on protecting human lives, which means Austria has fewer deaths than comparable countries, but also on securing jobs and saving businesses, with a 50 billion euro package, which is one of the largest in international comparison to gross domestic product. [[Abg. Belakovich: More than 85 percent...!]] Of these 50 billion euros, 25 billion euros have already been promised, half of which are legally binding – in the form of state guarantees, the hardness fund for small and micro-enterprises, tax subsidies and corona-short work, or also the fixed-cost grant, in which we are currently in the process of finding two good solutions for Austrian companies with the EU's fixed-cost grant, because we also want to support our companies with our money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] I am glad that we did not do what SPÖ and NEOS called for, namely to give up the pressure of the Brussels bureaucracy and to request one more thing as we would have been allowed, but to fight for more money for their own businesses. Now movement is coming in – that's the right way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In addition, we have reduced the wage tax for smaller incomes, because we have reduced the lowest level, and thus up to 350 euros more remain in the stock exchange. [[Call the SPÖ:... all income!]] The unemployed receive a single payment of 450 euros, for families there is the child bonus of 360 euros per child and just small and medium-sized pensions are significantly increased this year, which is sustainable. I would also like to make a brief comment on the fact that, in your request, you seem to want to include necessary economic aid against expenditure on refugees: Austria is helping, on the spot. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Unlike the FPÖ, we also confess to this help, and unlike the opposition – and yes, also the coalition partner – we believe that we should first integrate those who are already here, and not discuss resumptions. There are already enormous challenges in the agglomerations in particular: In some schools in Vienna, the proportion of students who do not have German as a language of use is more than 90 percent. For me, therefore, it is clear that we need not only to promote integration but also to call for it in order to cope well with the social challenges. I now come to the answer to the question in detail. Question 1: Yes. On question 2: The budget will be presented in Parliament next week. Questions 3 and 4: Unemployment benefit and emergency aid are an insurance benefit granted independently of nationality. In this respect, the BMF has no relevant evaluation. Questions 5 and 6: Social assistance, previously a need-oriented minimum, falls within the competence of the countries, which is why the BMF itself cannot carry out an appropriate evaluation. Question 7: We have long insisted that Vienna implements the Basic Social Assistance Act. Social assistance or basic care falls within the competence of the countries, with the exception of the principle legislation in the field of poverty, which is why the implementation of the basic social assistance law by means of implementing legislation constitutes a country competence. Questions 8 and 9: The BMF itself cannot carry out any relevant evaluations, which is why, in the requested period, the transfer payments are referred to the respective sector or social security for an evaluation of the transfer payments. Question 10: Such a scenario was not calculated in the BMF. Questions 11 to 14: Due to the extensive tabular composition, these answers are submitted in writing. Questions 15 and 16: These questions fall within the scope of the Federal Minister of Education, Science and Research or in those of the universities – compare § 91 and § 92 University Law 2002, according to which the rectorate has to decide on the adoption of the study contributions. The Federal Minister for Finance has no records on this subject. On the question 17: “What expenditure has been budgeted for the Austrian Integration Fund or the Austrian Integration Fund by 2020. ‘2015’: Budget estimate 9.3 million euros, success 15.4 million euros; 2016: Estimate 9.3 million, success 49.4 million; 2017: Estimate 49.3 million, success 30.1 million; 2018: Estimate 41.4 million, success 38.9 million; 2019: Estimate 40.1 million, success 33.1 million. In 2020, the UG 10 budgeted 57.6 million euros for the ÖIF, with a total of 67.9 million euros for the detailed budget integration. Questions 18 to 20: The questions must be addressed to the competent Mrs. Federal Minister for Justice. On question 21: The cost categories contained therein are not known, so an Austrian equivalent cannot be determined. Question 22: No. – The expenditure of the Asylum and Migration Fund will be determined in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council from 17 to 21. In the period 2021 to 2027, a total of EUR 8.7 billion amounted to €8.7 billion. This is a slight increase, but in Weitem no doubling compared to the period 2014 to 2020, in which expenditure amounted to EUR 7.1 billion. According to the conclusions of the European Council, only the EU Agency for the Protection of External Borders will have significantly more than during the current funding period. On the question 23: According to the European Commission's financial report, expenditure in the Member States was as follows: Asylum and Migration Funds: 2015: 401.9 million (Austria 12.3 million); 2016: 925.6 million (Austria 31.2 million); 2017: 598.3 million (Austria 19.3 million); 2018: 688.5 million (Austria 13.1 million); 2019: 862.3 million (Austria 12.4 million). Question 24: The Federal Government is committed to help locally from the foreign disaster fund with possible migration component. The answer is as follows: Syria 7,143 million euros, Greece 3 million euros. On question 25: No such measures can be read out of budgeting in the UGS 11 and 18 managed by the BMI. The question must therefore be addressed to the competent Federal Minister for the Interior. On the question 26: The answer will be delivered in writing. On the question 27: The question must be addressed to the Minister responsible for the Interior. On the question 28: For the Covid-19 crisis management fund, EUR 20 billion is budgeted in the Federal estimate 2020. In addition, the Federal Finance Act 2020 provides for an authorisation for the fund's further deployment at an amount of EUR 8 billion. On question 29: The costs will be included in the Federal Preview Draft 2021 and in the Federal Financial Framework 2021 to 2021. They will be sent to the National Council on 14 May. In October, the Commission presented a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and Questions 30 to 34: I will allow these to be answered by my remarks in the course of the budget speech next week. On questions 35 to 37: 603 million euros for 200 000 stakeholders; the average duration is to be answered by the relevant departments. In addition, we have decided today to extend until March 2021. ==References== In October 2020, 592 million euros were paid to 197,000 companies. These are figures which correspond approximately to an average funding per enterprise of about 3 000 euros. On the question 38: As the grant is paid out in several instalments, the volume paid up to date is around 195 million euros. On average, it takes about ten days from the application to the approval. Question 39: In about 7 000 euros. On question 40: About 28 000 companies. Question 41: The notification of the extension of the fixed-cost grant, fixed-cost grant phase 2, was not faulty, but was made as well as the notification of the fixed-cost grant phase one based on Article 107(1). 2 lit. b TFEU. The Commission put forward the new application of Article 107(1). 2 lit. (b) with reference to the case law of the ECJ and the Commission's usual saying practice in agreement, since the causal chain on Covid-19 outbreaks and damage was not given. An application on the basis of Article 107(1). 3 lit. b For this reason, the TFEU has been introduced in a complementary manner. The Commission's approvals of this application are still pending. As a general rule, the temporary framework conditions are currently possible. The final decision on the fourth amendment of the temporary aid framework is expected for next week. On question 42: In the field of direct control of the medical consequences of the Covid-19 Pandemic, around 33.4 million euros were paid for testing, screening programmes or fees for epidemics up to date. With regard to the duration of payment, no data are available to the BMF. On the part of the BMF, reference is made to the competence of the primary competent department. On question 43: For this purpose, no data are available to the BMF. On question 44: There are no data available to the BMF either. On question 45: No, no, no, On questions 46 and 47: The paying agencies for the aid packages set up by the Federal Government are broad. The aim was to entrust the most appropriate body to the respective assistance package. In the case of fixed-cost grant, for example, the administration is carried out by the Cofag, the disbursement of the fixed-cost grant is carried out by the accounting agency of the federal government. To pool the administration of all measures in one place would not be appropriate and would significantly delay the resolution. Question 48: The rapid implementation of corona short work helped to secure thousands of jobs. At the summit at the end of April, more than one million workers, workers in short-term work, were spending EUR 4.8 billion on short-term work by the end of September 2020. Question 49: This was the Wirtshaus package: the tax measure to support the gastronomy and tourism, extend the tax exemption of vouchers for meals, increase the deductibility of business meals, increase in the reception rate, temporary reduction in the VAT on gastronomy and accommodation, return on losses, degressive depreciation. Question 50: In order to boost the economy, we have relied on sustainable discharge of taxpayers instead of one-off effects. For example, we reduce the input tax rate retroactively with January 2020 from 25 to 20 percent to ensure sustainable discharge. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e5832	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e5853	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, above all from the ÖVP! What happened in here today was a new low. This is because denunciantism has now taken place in this Parliament. There a lady, with the willing support of the president, pretends to be reporting on business treatment and has nothing else to do but point his finger at others. [[towards Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Colleagues, this is the mood you have been spreading in this country for months and we reject it! What you've done here today is repulsive and repulsive. [[New call of the abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] You stand down, point your finger at others, because you believe only you are right, only you are right. But while you have stood inside here and have polemized around, you might have had to look at the press conference of physicians who have an idea of what is really going on in this country and who have called for a little more relaxation, which has run parallel. You can read it in an OTS – that would once be a literature for you from the ÖVP and also for you, Mr. Federal Minister, because you, Mr. Federal Minister, are also apparently one who has no idea of what the doctors actually say, think, think, and feel. [[towards Federal Minister Anschober]] You are also one who explained yesterday that there are 70 000 studies. – There is not a single study! I read it again last night: There is no scientific study that demonstrates the effectiveness of these masks. This, ladies and gentlemen, must also be taken note of. They don't exist, they can't yet exist, because a medical study takes more than a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] That means you'd have to look in the past. There are some who deal with surgery masks in the surgery, but this was only about bacteria that are usually much bigger than viruses, and even in these studies there are contraindications, because half says that the masks in the surgery are pointless, the other half says you can keep them. - Just so much for it. So save yourself the polemics, save your fingertips! Finally, stop splitting society! We do not want to continue in this country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] But now to you, Minister of Finance, because you, Minister of Finance, have generously told us that it is our right to make a special meeting today: I place, you're completely overwhelmed and you've been very unambitioned even now. You missed a few answers, but in fact you didn't say much. In my opinion, you are in your position as Minister of Finance, as well as in your position as a top candidate in Vienna. It's just that you can't live up to the expectation that you put in you, and you feel that, I think. That's probably also the reason why you're so unlovingly standing in here and squeezing down any numbers you're not convinced of. But what you are: They are the perfect man for this cold Teflon policy, Mr. Finanzminister. You're good for the image, you're good for the look and you're good when you want to show what you're doing for making qualities out, but when you scratch on the facade, not much remains. Politics – nothing, you don't even care. She's just interested in personal progress, Minister of Finance. That you can't, you've proved it in recent months. There would be, for example, Austria's economic location: This is because of your inability to do so, Mr Federal Minister, and your house has not been able to make an application in Brussels so that the fixed-cost grant is extended. [[Abg. Haubner: Schmarrn!]] Not even that you brought together, but at the same time playing You're the great Kraftmeier when you're in the election campaign in Vienna. Here comes the demands. Then go in and ask: German before you get an apartment in the community building! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, I have not seen any initiative in the EU, in Brussels, which changes the law so far that it can be done. You yourself know very well that there are EU law. What happened to the EIA at EU level? They are said to be such an important European party: Well, then you'll be able to get through there in this case too! Or: They have accused the city of Vienna that it has still not implemented the minimum guarantee – now it is called Social Assistance New. I'm right about you. The city of Vienna still doesn't have that. But your ÖVP doesn't want to do that either. Three times we have already made a request that the Federal Government, namely the Social Minister and the Federal Chancellor, should talk to the Vienna state government, and the ÖVP has so far rejected this three times. However, I would like to give you the opportunity to agree to this request today, because if it is really so important for the Minister of Finance that, at last, social assistance abuse will also be stopped in Vienna – that is also urgently necessary, I am with him – then you must do something for it; then you would have the damn duty to agree to it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it's so important to you, please agree, and don't continue playing the strong man here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, the fight against mass immigration in Vienna is important. That's where the SPÖ did a lot of wrong. The city has been transformed – you don't recognize it again – and it has become another in the last 20 years. This is certainly the merit of the SPÖ. They took the city away, but you looked at it. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have watched everywhere, and now there is nothing but great-spray clubs, Mr. Minister. In fact, you'd rather be somewhere in the sushibar at the Lord Ho or any corona parties. We can also make it clear today: Were you at the corona party of Mr Ho at the time, yes or no? – The rumors in Vienna is adamant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] One question, Mr Finanzminister, you have not answered us either: What role do you play? You're actually in the ÖVP network? They were, after all, financial referents in one of these associations, in which at the same time the head of the intelligence service was still a member. This association had nothing else to do but make post-chakers for ÖVP delegates, push people or drive money for the election campaign and lurk. You still play that role down, but you finally make that clear: You don't just become a financial referent in an association if one of the associations isn't so important, Minister of Finance! But I know you have a big problem, you're very, very forgetful. You know, Minister of Finance, you were sitting in the Investigation Committee and you said more than 80 times, you can't remember. I think that from a medical point of view, Mr. Finanzminister. You should really think about it very carefully! Sometimes I wonder if you actually have a driver's license. If You forget so many things in your life, I really think you're a real hazard, a hazard to all other road users. This, Minister of Finance, is really not fun, and I would ask you: Take your forgetfulness seriously, seek a doctor and tell him what it is like to forget all this! But if that is not the case, Mr Finanzminister, I must say, unfortunately, that you have probably wanted to forget everything, and that is what I blame you, Mr Finanzminister: You forget everything, you're unambitionated, you don't care. They have announced great: It costs what it wants, and yesterday in the Committee, Member Fürlinger of the ÖVP said: It's all too expensive, what do you think you should pay all this? – So you don’t even agree within the ÖVP range yet. Should it cost what it wants to do now, you really want to save the companies, or do you really care? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Is it only important to you that the multinational corporations and the donors of the ÖVP have come through this crisis well, Mr. Federal Minister? You need to answer these questions and ask yourself these questions because you have responsibility in this country and you are at the key position. If you don't let the money flow, because it just sticks with you or because you just hand it over to incapable people or because you think you have to serve your own people first: Well, then, we have a situation like we just had, that we are really on an economic dead end, that many companies no longer know how to secure their existence in the next spring, Mr. Finanzminister. You have to answer these questions because they are existential for all Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6191	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Mr Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6215	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! What is it really if the FPÖ wants to debate with us four days before the Vienna elections on the expenditure on asylum, immigration and integration policy? – Mrs. Dr. Belakovich has shown it impressively with statements that, from my point of view, were insulting and far below the belt line and which had little to do with material concerns. It seems to me that all of this, estimated FPÖ, is a desperate attempt to bring the Vienna-FPÖ, once again, into the discussion due to many incidents and also the Spesenskandal in the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In fact, I am grateful to you for this discussion, but it gives me the opportunity to work out some differences between the FPÖ and the People's Party when it comes to security and migration. [[Interlocutors Kickl and Martin Graf]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] I come to Mr. Klubobmann Kickl. Mr Klubobmann Kickl, you have often been celebrated in this House as the best interior minister of all time – short version for your party officials was Bimaz. [[Abg. Kickl: You were there too!]] You should know from your time as Minister of the Interior that it is a legal obligation and should also be morally self-evident to bring people who are fleeing in a decent manner during their asylum process and also to provide them with appropriate means of survival. [[Abg. Kickl: “People on the run ”! That's where our way is!]] Mr Kickl, you did this in your time and responsibility as Minister of the Interior. As an interior minister, you have had similar costs for the accommodation and basic care of these people as your predecessors. You have also been able to ensure only a limited number of foreign transfers in relation to the migrants in the country, and, Mr Kickl, you have not reversed the system as you have previously claimed. In my view, it is particularly worrying for a clubman of a party represented in the Austrian Parliament, which is unscrupulous and, from my point of view, unworthy to offset costs for refugee aid and to bring it into connection with the biggest health crisis for a hundred years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] This also fits into the overall picture, Mr. Kickl. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Under your leadership, almost the entire FPÖ fraction negates the corona virus. If I look at your behaviour from the beer tent in Simmering to the premises here in Parliament, without any distance, without any mouth-nose protection, I have to say: I think that's not responsible. [[Abg. Kickl: But the infected are with you!]] This means that FPÖ, Mr Kickl, contributes to the increase in the rate of infection and thus aggravate [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] They are not only the health crisis, but also the economic crisis. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Kickl, I come to you again, because you are really – my respect – an excellent man who presents himself rhetorically well – always again and again, excellent, but what remains of you, Mr Kickl, from your time as Minister of the Interior? [[Abg. Lightness: Well, yes!]] [[call to the FPÖ]] Remember Your indebtedness of the international loss of trust in the BAT, triggered by the partially illegal actions that have arisen from your home? [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Do you remember your symbolic actions, tag “Ausreisezentrum”? Remember the secret structures commissioned by you in the BMI or also yours – forgive me, I also told you personally! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brückl]] – bizarre projects and their costs, for example the 2.3 million euros for a dozen police horses? [[Abg. Kickl: (delighted) You're crawled under the carpet!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I have defended you here, in the House, Mr Kickl, several times, but today I know more: As Minister of the Interior, you were looking back, not the Bimaz, the best minister of the interior of all time, but, from my point of view, the Simaz, the worst minister of the interior ever! [[Abg. Belakovich: No, the very best!]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Kickl, it's clear to us: We have a clear attitude towards migration, we also implement it, and with German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, we have a very massive engine in the European concert to further shape asylum and migration policy with our principles, which we will develop with all our strength. Mr Kickl, to conclude: When I look at the FPÖ in Austria and especially in Vienna, do you know what I think? - One sentence: Except for nothing to pay! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as bravoruf des Abg. Hörl.]] You have long lost the topics of security and migration and people's trust. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't look too early!]] We can have confidence in our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, in our Federal Government, and also – he has proven more than impressive today – in our Finance Minister and crisis manager Gernot Blümel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I hope you're not fooling yourself!]] In this sense, Mr Kickl: Fording and dreaming They don't just think about it, but they're thinking about it. Once you are self-critical of why you are no longer in a position to rule!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6493	Mrs Belakovich spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6518	Mr Mahrer has just said in his speech: Mr. Kickl, your bizarre projects, the police horses, have bla, bla, bla, and he has implied that this was a solo entrance of Mr. Kickl. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: The police horses were negotiated in the government programme at the time, and I think you were part of this internal negotiating team, Mr Mahrer.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6577	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6599	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Of course, this is a case-by-case mistake, and what is one thing, because it is a matter of getting hit against others and of babbling Vienna and the EU, no one unemployed will be helped, no job creation will be created and people will no longer have money, Mr Kickl! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Baumgartner and Mr Niss.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] My colleague Mahrer has now admired you for your rhetorical skills, so he is probably impressed that you have Googleled a Latin quote. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Neumann-Hartberger.]] You're easy to impress, Mr. Mahrer. – I also welcome a quote for your speech, but we are more the party of those who have to work hard for their money, Mr Kickl. The quote for you: Schuster, stay with your man! – That fits very well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Especially creative!]] You're not even comparing apples with pears, Mr. Kickl, with what you're talking about here, you're comparing apples to cormorants, and you're ignoring that we're in the biggest health crisis, the biggest job crisis, the biggest economic crisis since 1946. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] This seems to be just as much to you as the people you hate are apparently sausaged against, and I ask you: If you don't want people, if you don't appreciate people if you don't like the Viennans, why do you even take the choice there? Mr Blümel will now also ask this question, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. If you don't like people, you shouldn't go to the choice. That is something I think is clear and important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Today you are a bit out of the concept!]] But I'll tell you one thing: With your criticism, we are now in a very, very bad situation, of course, partly right. We have the highest unemployment since 1946, and you must already ask: How did we even get to it, ladies and gentlemen? Why is that so? We need to talk about this: Why are we in this situation? – The essential reason for this is that, starting from 2018, the then black and blue government – and now also the black and green government – apparently had no interest in doing anything for working people, no interest in doing something for the unemployed, no interest in the fact that people as a whole have more money. That's where the mister started: with your joint government participation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: It's getting worse!]] Mr Blümel, you and your Federal Chancellor Kurz, with the participation of the FPÖ at the time and the Greens now, are responsible for the greatest unemployment of the Second Republic, and you cannot now clean yourself up and act as if you were doing nothing about it. You started to cut the labour market budget by 650 million euros, you introduced the 12-hour day, you abolished action 20,000, you abolished the training guarantee, you agreed to leave the social partners outside, and now it goes on: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] The Epidemic Act has been eliminated, economic aid has not arrived, the economic crisis has been underestimated. You are opposed to increasing unemployment benefit, you are even against a mask break for the people who have to wear the masks demanded by the ÖVP. That's your economic policy, that's your dealings with people – and it's about people! It's not just about these keywords. I'm telling you now about a woman I spoke to recently, who seems to care less about you as you do, who doesn't care about short and who seems to care about many of you. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel]] [[Abg. Belakovich: With whom?]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: I've already talked to him!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This woman is now 55. It's in a company that probably stops its operation because no one cares about it. [[Abg. Kickl: Next time, let the boys talk!]] It will probably no longer find a job when it is terminated. Your husband works in the same farm, even he won't find a job. Why do you care about these people, Mr. Blümel? Why Care You're not about such people, why don't you talk to them? Why does it matter to you that there are such fates? [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: A base!]] Will you leave the future of this woman cold, Mr. Blümel? Do you feel so little responsible for people? How can you sleep calmly every night when there are people who can no longer sleep in debt and no longer know how to finance it, Mr Blümel? Explain this once! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How can you sleep well if you know that young people in Austria are out of perspective, are not finding work because you have abolished the training guarantee? How's that going for you, Mr. Blümel? Tell me! There are more and more people who are suffering incredibly from your policy that no longer have a future that has no idea how to deal with their concerns. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] That is why, and that is why it should be today – not about hustle and bustle against other people, as the FPÖ has said, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6816	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e6838	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! [[Abg. Belakovich: Stay loose, don't cramp yourself like that!]] What we are being offered here today is a classic FPÖ piece, namely, exactly the only piece that the FPÖ can and can dominate: xenophobic hetze. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Please call for an order!]] In the midst of a global pandemic, in the midst of a health, labour market and economic crisis, Mr Kickl, you have nothing better to do than to add to those people in our society who often have the most difficult. Mr Leichtfried had the same sentence in his speech: No unemployed person, no single child, no minimum pensioner, no company has been helped by what you subtract here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They don't help anyone!]] It's all about choking fears, disfavor and hatred. [[Abg. Kickl: You need it!]] We have seen this piece very often, and it will also be in the 100. Performance no better. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Where would Austria stand? – In this Austria, many foreign nurses are doing the system-related work that we have so urgently needed in recent months: They relieve family members – including FPÖ voters – of the burdeny work of care. [[Abg. Kickl: They choose the FPÖ and not the Greens!]] We have the harvest workers who harvest in spite of difficult conditions in Austrian fields – often for far too low wages. But they have nothing better to do than restore xenophobia and hatred. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In your urgent inquiry, you're talking about any furniture from Cofag's offices, and I've got to say, I think that's quite courageous, because you shouldn't close your own party to others. Who was it, then, who had his office rebuilt by half a million – with over 100,000 euros for furniture? – It was [[Abg. Stögmüller: H.-C. Strache!]] Your vice chancellor H.-C. Strache. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ah-noise with the greens.]] He's also got 15 million baskets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Your police horses cost 2.5 million euros – and you trust you to talk about wasting money here? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Or do we take colleague Waldhäusl, who is in charge of asylum in Lower Austria, against whom the economic and corruption prosecutor's office determines for abuse of office, which is the subject of an audit report that has been washed because the use of the funds has not been properly implemented. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's your idea, that's your performance in politics! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] In view of your party's long-standing and multi-layered history of corruption, I think it is extremely courageous to be here and make such a rule. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Everything just hot air!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] While you are here dealing with coronary indifference and hatred, we have made sure that these crises – the economic crisis, the labour market crisis and the health crisis – are best dealt with. [[Abg. Belakovich: A plus of 80 percent of heart attack!]] They sit here and act like Trump. With him it was the same way that he was standing around all the time in any speech. Now he and half the Republican team are infected. This is an absolutely unresponsible behavior, and you do not behave differently here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: How did that go in the Chancellor's Office?]] [[Abg. Stefan: That's not responsible!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's a nonsense!]] While you are dealing with these things and not participating in dealing with the crisis, we have chained packages that actually help what we see in the first studies that we have to do with them. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why are there so many unemployed?]] We have extended the hardness fund for individual companies from six to twelve months, we extend the bridge fund for artists and increase it as well. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have put in place numerous measures to address the effects of this crisis, such as the fixed-cost grant that helps those most affected by the most powerful ones who have lost most of their lives because they cannot be locked up at the moment. We are creating a work foundation of 700 million euros, which is an unprecedented amount that enables over 100,000 people to reorient themselves on the labour market and to be re-trained. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There is a bonus of 180 euros on unemployment benefit. This too has never been there. I also say this clearly in the direction of SPÖ, because after the 2008 economic crisis, there has not been such social measures under red governments as today in this Corona situation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have tied up an economic package that not only stimulates the economy but also makes a significant contribution to bringing something forward in terms of climate protection. Two thirds of these funds have a climatic impact. The Wifo has published a first study of the social situation during Corona, and this shows very clearly: The aid has taken hold, the risk of poverty has not increased. That's a good news. This is the task we have adopted in this Federal Government and we are continuing to pursue. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] And you, Mr Kickl, have shot yourself out of this government by your behaviour and your party colleagues' behaviour. You're not sitting on this government bank anymore, and that's very, very good. They will also suffer a low defeat in Vienna, and that is also very good. [[Abg. Kickl: You'll remember me!]] This desperate special meeting does not help you either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7167	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7188	Mr President. Mr. Health Minister! Mr Finanzminister! The Vienna election campaign arrived here in the house. It is obvious that this duel ÖVP-FPÖ, which you are trying to carry out in Vienna, has now arrived a little here too. I am glad that you are now a secondary finance minister – much more is it not, you are top-ranking candidate in Vienna – here, too, because what you did in the Vienna election campaign was so that for a few voters you have really done pretty much everything. That's why I liked it when colleague Mahrer just meant: Well, there's a difference between ÖVP and FPÖ. – This may be the case for colleagues Mahrer. I have followed the Vienna election campaign very closely and have listened to what Mr Finanzminister said. It was started by demanding German knowledge for municipal construction. The second was that he broke off the absurd debate about Nikolaus in the kindergarten in September. The liberals are usually afraid in November, whether the Nikolaus is coming or not, you are afraid already in September. [[Abg. Steinacker: We are not afraid of Nikolaus!]] I wonder how you can sleep for months if you're so panicant about whether Nikolaus is coming or not. This is an essential point with which you have tried to contribute to the election campaign. Then it came with the keb-stand operators you heated up the financial police, which fits well into your election logic. The crowning conclusion was then the inability to grant fixed costs and the application to the European Commission. I mean, think about it. You're doing this, Minister of Finance! Every entrepreneur in this country has to take inconceivably a lot of bureaucracy, has to fill in inconceivably many pieces of paper, and once he does something wrong, he will not be helped. You are obviously not able to fill out this fixed-cost application accordingly and now say it was no inability, you have made no mistake. You have literally said in your answer to the question: Well, that's the ECJ's permanent case law, and we've done it wrong. Well, what is it other than inability if you are not even able to complete it accordingly? – There can be nothing else! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, I believe, Minister of Finance, that it has not been inability at all, but it is calculable, because you are capable of going into this conflict with the European Union. You like to argue a little bit and plump EU bashing. That's something we know more and more about the ÖVP. Originally we know it from the liberals: Nikolaus in Kindergarten, German in municipal construction, EU-Bashing, a little kebaby owners. This is politics that comes from the liberals. The problem is that it has become your policy, Mr Mahrer. This is the policy of the Minister of Finance in Vienna. In this context, they must not be confused. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Finanzminister, have long left this political centre. You admit that in newspaper interviews. They say that this is now the middle-right policy that the ÖVP is making in Vienna. Unfortunately, it is not even a centre-right policy, it is the very pure right-wing populism that the FPÖ has been making for years. The ÖVP makes exactly the same thing in Vienna: Right populism in pure culture and nothing else! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And while you are doing this, unfortunately, God's remains what you are actually responsible for, on the road, namely, your activity as Minister of Finance. We remember: Business support, “cost what it wants. ” Minimum bureaucracy and maximum planning capacity would be necessary. The companies obviously have no confidence in what you are doing. Only on the weekend have I been told by two friends of SMEs: Well, I certainly don't apply for a fixed-cost grant because I know what's going on then. Then the finance is in my company the whole next year, browsing all the documents, and I can't do my job again. – You are losing this confidence, and the entrepreneurs are no longer even willing to accept your help. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Are there as many financial officials as entrepreneurs? Is that the statement?]] [[Abg. Haubner: The Schellhorn sees this differently!]] Then the question is whether all the measures at all, all the help comes. Mr. Finance Minister, the problem is that there are many measures that don't happen to some companies at all, these are the young startups. Mr Finanzminister, I remember when you recently declared full-bodied on TV in an electoral campaign: Everyone's being helped. And on the record that this is not so, and that there are quite, many who are not being helped, you have said: People should come to you, they should write to you, and so on, and so on. I wrote to the operators of a very young boxing studio, which gets nothing, no fixed-cost grant – just founded – and nothing from the hardening fund. The operators write to me that they wrote an email to you, the public service of the Ministry of Finance, on 30 September, but they don't get an answer. That means it's simply not true that everyone is being helped. That's simply wrong, and you're not even ready to write to those who write to you directly, even though you're asking them to give the help they need. The operators are hard hit, because of course not as many training as was originally planned. They don't get a fixed-cost grant because the studio was just founded, they don't get anything out of the hardness fund, and an answer from the Ministry of Finance is out. There is also a host from the 5th century. District, which, of course, does not receive a fixed-cost grant, because it has just reopened. Instead of thinking about how you can help them, instead of the Minister of Economic Affairs thinking about how to help, how to unravel the trade order, how to reduce bureaucracy, the Minister of Economic Affairs may come up with the idea that in Vienna one should perhaps put the blocking hour ahead at 10 a.m.. Explain You're a newly founded company, a newly founded inn, like you're supposed to survive in some way! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Finanzminister – if You might listen! – it is not true that companies also need a fixed-cost subsidy; they need freedom to operate business. They need, if they want to create new jobs now, the possibility that the additional wage costs are not so high. It would be useful if, for example, we, as the State of Austria, were to take over social security contributions in this context in order to create new jobs here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] [[Abg. Haubner: This is a contradiction!]] What are you doing? – You look at keb distances, whether you can test them accordingly. I am very excited at the phase two fixed-cost grant, apart from the proposal from the European Union, how you do it. Our common goal is that the companies that are hard hit will also get over the winter. If you now have to join the phase two fixed-cost grant to that of the phase one, the aid will cease in December. There I am excited how companies will manage to get over the severe crisis in winter. It makes sense to take care of this, but it is important to you whether Nikolaus is on 6th. ==References====External links== What we have already proposed is to extend the return on losses. It must be the goal of us to expressly bring about the crisis, over years and decades, particularly healthy companies that have been in business, who have paid taxes for years and decades. Widen out the loss return for three or four years; give back the money they have paid accordingly to those who have paid taxes! What we are doing in many areas now is nothing but to drag down insolvency – you have to say that honestly. In normal times there are about 100 insolvencys per week, currently there are 40. We must look very carefully at the fact that we are bringing healthy companies over this crisis, rather than somehow, just as you are doing, to argue publicly with the European Union over weeks, because it just fits back into the election campaign. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Should you do it now, the fixed-cost grant, or not?]] Federal Minister! Stop this campaign, please devote yourself to your actual job, that of the Minister of Finance, after the Vienna election! If you don't want to do this and prefer to go to Vienna, then you can do it – see that your successor really cares about what he should do and it can also: to help the businesses in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7337	Member of the Amesbauer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7358	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate television. I shall begin by tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, this is the opportunity for Members of the EIA to confess colour. I have already made the same request in the Committee on the Interior. There he was postponed by the majority of governments, that is, for the audiences............................................................................. [[Abg. Kickl: Delay!]] I can't do this. Here you have to make clear your color and agree to the whole request or reject it, and if Mr Blümel and Mr Kurz are serious about it and not just about campaigning, because you accuse us of entering the election campaign here, but if it is not just yours to be really against the reception of these migrants from Moria, then you have only one opportunity: to accept this motion for a resolution. Otherwise, every Viennan and every Viennan and every citizen in Austria knows that these are only empty words, which will not follow concrete actions and will not follow them either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You must not forget: What's this about? This is about arsonists who want to ignite their own quarter, where they have already got a roof over the head and food in the European Union, and thus want to extort asylum in their desired destination – that will be Austria, Sweden or Germany. Even the Greek government is asking not to include these people. By the way, we have also seen recent television images from public-law television from Germany: the arrival of the first children – alleged children, as one has actually seen only young men who had long since grown out of childhood. The whole is therefore a farce, and Europe and also Austria: We must not let these people make us empressable. That's why: Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is as if the whole issue is no longer a matter, ladies and gentlemen. We know that a decades-long failure of the red-black governments in the various constellations has actually instilled the soup, and this failure culminated in 2015. I have seen this in the field of play itself, as a number of thousands of illegal migrants from all over the world have more or less overrun the borders, and Austria then abandoned its sovereignty over the borders of the state. At that time, a government was at work, which by the way, by the way, had already heard chancellors in short, in his then role as Foreign Minister or Secretary of Integration, for many years already he had many government functions. Ladies and gentlemen! More than 22,000 illegal migrants have arrived by sea in Italy since the beginning of 2020. The inflow to Greece is also still unbroken. The Turkey refugee pact, by which Mr Erdoğan, as a European Union, can constantly blackmail us to leave hundreds of thousands of people in the European Union, if he wants to do so, if we do not continue to pay him the billions, or if it concerns the natural gas dispute or whatever, it was wrong – and Erdoğan will permanently blackmail us with it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What are the consequences? Emerging sexual violence, in particular rapes. This is not an invention of the Freedom Party, these are the facts – and in particular the Afghans are particularly noticeable. More than half of Vienna's Students do not have German as a native language, by the way, Austria already over 25 percent, which is dramatic numbers. We have to deal with Chechen moral guards in Austria. There are knife and machete struggles in Vienna. We are dealing with rising imported anti-Semitism, as we only had to see in August in Graz during this shameful attack by an asylumist from Syria on the president of the Jewish community. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a topic and – because the labour market and the corona situation were then mentioned –: There has been a long-standing competition for foreign cheap labour on the domestic labour market, and the current strain on the labour market must be all the more task and duty for all of us to stop immigration into the labour market and social systems. It's sad to have to talk about it at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As regards the labour market: It is also interesting that Mrs Hebein of the Greens – after all, the coalition partner of the ÖVP at the federal level, but also the SPÖ at the Vienna level – has now called for us to include migrants in the public service with the same qualification in Vienna. This will continue to destroy our labour market, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The consequence or logical consequence can only be to close the borders – not for returnees who are harassed and papered at the Austrian borders, but for those who want to enter our social systems illegally. Those who are here and who do not want to perform properly and hide their residence title through incorrect information must be rigorously pushed off, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, another one towards ÖVP: Are you serious about these moralising things that you have addressed to us, Mr Schwarz, but also Mr Mahrer? [[Yes, at the ÖVP.]] We are endangering jobs by our behaviour? That is what you are serious about – you, who are pulling the plugs of the economy across Austria, you, the Zig thousands of people into short work and into unemployment? Now I'll tell you one thing: No one has publicly called on the Freedom Party to disregard your actions. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We have not done so, but it will probably be allowed in a democracy to criticize your actions that have a health-related conflict. In Styria yesterday, a study has been published that since the beginning of all the corona measures, 80 percent more deaths after heart attack have occurred, because people do not have to trust in the hospital or call for salvation due to Mr. Kurz's rhetoric. You can't be ashamed of that, we won't let that happen. You destroy the economy, you endanger the health of people, you scare them – and we criticize your actions, this right we take out in democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neumann-Hartberger]] There you can still sit so demonstrationally with your turquoise muzzles here, we certainly don't play this game with you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7526	The motion for a resolution is, since it has been sufficiently supported and properly implemented, also included in the negotiations. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7550	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is a campaign that gives the FPÖ here, four days before the Vienna Landtags- und Gemeinderatswahl, for the best, and I quote the Floriani principle, which is Holy Florian, spare my house, inflame others! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] That's what we've known about FPÖ for over 30 years – Haider has put it into politics, Kickl continues this day again – simply to throw so much dirt on others, so as to be distracted from their own problems. This is what the FPÖ has dominated for decades and does again today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No other content will be: You have to be against the foreigners once, you have to be against Europe, and now we still have Corona, well, for heaven's sake, you have to be against Corona, of course! [[Abg. Kickl:...no corona at all! ...!]] And I will now tell you one very, very seriously, Mr Kickl: It is here that you are unaware of how you stand on this pandemic and on this health crisis. When you are outside, when shopping, in Post et cetera, you have the same legal requirements as all other citizens in this Republic. This has just been confirmed by Mr Amesbauer. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Amesbauer and Kickl.]] But I ask you at this point: If you do not believe the many experts and virologists, at least you do it for Austrian tourism, for the jobs connected with it so that we come from the travel warnings of the other European countries, so that winter tourism can take place with us, then at least do it for the Zig thousands of jobs also in Tyrol, in Salzburg, in Vorarlberg, in Styria, in Upper Austria, then at least do it if you deny Corona already from top to bottom! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I'll tell you one thing, too. We're sitting next to each other. There is now again a representative who has been at home with fever for days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Mr Engelberg recently described this impressively. He was in the hospital for a few days and was glad that he was supplied with oxygen. That's not just something you say: It's kind of gone by. Yes, there are also milder processes. But there are also quite, very difficult processes, and we should not just play it down, as if you had a bit of a catarrh or a little bit of a sniff, but that is a very serious disease for many, and therefore we must take it seriously as politicians, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] That's why I'm looking for you with all the repressiveness. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] The FPÖ is in front of a disaster on Sunday in Vienna. The party is deeply divided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Strache has driven a rough rope into the rest of this remaining party. It's true that she's just got some kind of keeping up in the league, and there's nothing in the back and front together. It threatens a scenario of up to minus 20 percent. When you get over the 10 percent-thirty, you're glad there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] So there is this special meeting today, and nothing else is this meeting today. A few comments on your comments, Mr Kickl: Total to Corona: There are currently about 1,000 new infections per day. That's a lot. [[Abg. Belakovich: On positive tests!]] - Well, then they're positive tests. There are people who are infected, and there are too many, Mrs. Belakovich. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Belakovich.]] That you, as a doctor, are here and give priority to party loyalty and not to people's health, this is not worthy of a doctor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[New calls from Members Amesbauer and Belakovich.]] Some seem to be coming back to reason in this party too.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7683	Finally stop disturbing permanently, Mr. Amesbauer! You can report for a second time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is really detrimental to the dignity of the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7705	Thank you, Mr President, but I'm used to it. With us in the Innviertel one is also used to the opposite speech. I'll take care of that, but thank you. Take your Salzburg colleagues seriously at least! There are a few who, in this situation, think very slowly. At today's Landtagssession, your colleagues from FPÖ in Salzburg use the mouth-nose protection. This is a sign of the hope that the FPÖ will also be clear in the future that these figures will have to be brought down so that Corona can be under control so that winter tourism and the economy can continue to take place in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] That's why we are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on the refugee question: We have already given the answer: What is Christian-social? – And to the Christian social doctrine: We could also discuss personality and subsidiarity with each other, but that has not yet been the case with you in the books. Christian-social is the help on the spot. This is our obligation: to help the European countries that have the greatest pressure – whether it is Greece or Italy – on the spot. This Federal Government has doubled the funds for the foreign disaster fund, and the Minister of the Interior has traveled to Athens with 55 tonnes of supplies to ensure that decent accommodation can be built, but what we do not want is refugee flows, as it has existed in 2015, because this is not possible for a country like Austria, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What separates us, Mr Kickl, is that we respect, accept and recognise fundamental and human rights and also recognise the human rights convention and that we take note of and accept the highest judicial decisions in the case of minimum security. [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Kickl.]] This is the difference between our two parties. We have a Christian-social responsibility, we are there for the people and not for the people in this country, and we prove this every day also with the work of this federal government. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Last but not least: I understand very well the frustration because of what's ahead of you on Sunday. What has remained of your era as an interior minister has already been carried out by Mr Mahrer the rosers, the blue carpet which is no longer in the house thanks to God, but it is again the red one who has always been inside, and of course a wilfully destroyed constitutional protection, which we have been supplied as a remnant, to which Minister Nehammer has to do every day to bring him back into order. [[Call at the FPÖ:Electrial campaign...!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You left a bunch of shit in the Ministry of the Interior, not just a horseman. The fact that a tear sample will take place in the FPÖ from Monday is clear to all of us. That's why I call the Viennans: If you want to have a bourgeois party that is strengthened by this election, then choose the People's Party as a middle-right party with bourgeois house and expertise!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7778	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7800	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now turning from the election speech back into Parliament. Perhaps a brief comment on the liberals: Nationalism has never been a good recipe for humanity, neither 150 years ago nor 100 years ago, nor is it today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the contrary: In fact, he was always a dead end for the development of humanity. There, where nationalism has won, you were always in a dead end. That was at the end of the day war, which was at the end of the day destruction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And where there were no nations, there was the Soviet Union!]] These nationalistic proposals and recipes have never brought anyone forward. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Both Mr Mahrer and Mr Wöginger have really tried to find out the difference between the ÖVP and the FPÖ. They have to be said that they have not succeeded because the content you represent today and Mr Blümel represents in the election campaign is one of the nationalist recipes of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Belakovich: After, after!]] The Greens can consider what kind of coalition they have. It's called ÖVP, but the contents are those of the liberals. Mr Blümel does nothing but bring these contents of the liberals every day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He does not have much time as a Minister of Finance, he is only part-time ministers and, above all, campaigners. Today, in a week, the budget speech is to take place here, in this house. As social democrats, we have prepared ourselves for it and can give you a little time because you have had little time to prepare, that is to say, what this budget speech must include: We are facing the biggest economic crisis, the biggest unemployment crisis in the history of the Second Republic. The figures in September were the highest that have ever been measured in September in the Second Republic by the unemployed, and we are not yet talking about the hundreds of thousands who are still in short-time work. That's the situation we're facing. This budget has to be an answer to this unemployment crisis, and that requires three pillars. The first is: It takes a safeguarding of small incomes. That is also true of the unemployed. It can be imagined to everyone – so you don't, because you've never covered your account before – every Austrian and every Austrian, that it's impossible if she or she has only half the income from today to tomorrow, but still has the normal rent, still the normal fixed costs you have in life, with this money for a long time. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel]] The situation is that now hundreds of thousands of people are unemployed, from one day to the next they have only half the income, and then you reject all the proposals of the Social Democrats, although other parties agree that we must increase unemployment benefit to at least 70 percent net replacement rates so that we can support these small people who are particularly affected by the crisis. – First column: Ensuring small incomes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second pillar is investment. The most important thing is: The fact that companies are not currently investing rapidly is clear, but the state must invest in such situations. The largest investors are the municipalities. I know there's a community package. This won't work, for two simple reasons: Firstly, it is too small, it covers only 1 billion euros, and secondly, the municipalities have to finance up to half the investment themselves. The municipalities will lose around EUR 2 billion in revenue next year, tax revenue. That is, they lose 2 billion euros, get 1 billion euros and should invest more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] It can't go out in 100 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am telling you – I am now talking to my own hometown of Vienna – that Vienna is strong enough to continue to invest and therefore also to collect funding from the federal government, but most communities will no longer be able to invest, as they lack tax revenue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] The municipal package must be three times as large as it should have any effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We need investment in public transport. I haven't heard of that yet. We need a number of future investments, broadband et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] I don't see anything about that so far. This will be the second pillar to secure employment in order to combat unemployment. The third is to save businesses, which is a very essential point. There are instruments from the past for this. Social democracy has made this wonderful when we saved in the nineties, namely private businesses that went into bankruptcy – which you then privatized again in the zeros – like ATB, who now have the problem of standing in front of the bankruptcy and to lock it again. We face the situation that we are losing tens of thousands of good jobs in this country. The State, as an investor, also with equity, has to get in there to save these businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are facing the greatest unemployment in the Second Republic, so far we have not heard any answers and today in a week is the budget speech. We have calculated exactly what that means, and the figures will tell you at the first reading. I'm afraid that what you're going to present will be just these cosmetics again. Fighting unemployment on the one hand means giving people dignity by having jobs, on the other hand, it also means preventing tomorrow's debt and deficits, because 100 000 unemployed people cost the budget 2.5 to 3 billion euros each year, and we insist that we have 200 000 more unemployed, that is, 6 billion euros extra cost for the budget. That is why the fight against unemployment is also the fight against deficits and debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7929	Mrs El-Nagashi is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e7950	Who gets our system? Who's going to take the shelves? Who supplies the packages? Who's behind the checkout? Who created health, public transport and the food industry? – Of course, the very important people with high reputation and appropriate payment are also loud applause. A million people in Austria have system-related professions, i.e. poorer paid jobs with low reputation. Most of them are women who work in trade, in care professions, in cleaning, and a large part of them are migrants and migrants. Who gets our system? Who did you clap? – Worse paid, higher risk of infection, precarious working conditions, that is the reality of many migrants in Austria: System owners, taxpayers, people living in Austria have their family here, their neighbors and friends. In Vienna, more than half the population has a migration biography. That doesn't say anything about them, except that you make elections on your back, that you already want to decide again who belongs to it and who doesn't, who can say something and in what language, who can believe in God and in which. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This concerns half of the population of Vienna, and you have the chuzpe to re-run the election campaign on their backs, while also delivering a race in the column and diffamation with the right camp. It is good and it is right that a Vienna initiative has come together in Vienna to challenge the hatred of the FPÖ in the Vienna election campaign. She says what many of us have thought since the first day: We don't want these posters of the FPÖ on our streets, not in our city. They are dangerous, they are radical, they are racist and they do not belong to Vienna. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] They do not seem to have at all a pain limit as far as radicalization is concerned. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] They are a single parallel society that continues to radicalise itself every day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] “The worse Germany is, the better for the AfD.” – The long-standing press speaker of the AfD, your colleague from your German sister party, will find these defamatory words, a party that has called you an ascending, dynamic force that has an incredible share with the FPÖ. “The worse Germany gets, the better for the AfD.” – Is that also your credo for Vienna? Is that your strategy? It's about maintaining the party, everything is geared to being successful, I don't care about the country at all. - That's your sister party's strategy. Is that your strategy? You don't care about Austria, you don't care about Vienna, but especially the people in Vienna don't care. Vienna is one of the most living cities in the world, because of the people who live here. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe for you!]] It doesn't matter if they're called Siam or Sarah, Joseph or Yusef. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, that's it?]] Integration was never an outstretched hand. Integration is a barrier between premeditation and bureaucracy, between exclusion and depreciation, between exclusion and storage track. Integration should mean opportunities and participation and future and cohesion. They pervert integration to a fight concept and deliver a race in the column and in the diffamation. [[Abg. Belakovich: With whom?]] Vienna takes opportunities and participation and future and cohesion seriously. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] Vienna said: Integration from day one, and Vienna said: promote strengths and weaknesses. Vienna does this through projects such as Mama learns German, German courses for mothers in Vienna schools and kindergartens, the project neighbours, where trained social assistants visit people in their homes and offer integration support through the community, or the integration house, which has been providing accommodation, care and support for 25 years of refugees. [[Abg. Belakovich:... have been successful...! - Costed? How was the output?]] There are several integration initiatives in Vienna, which were created in 2015 and are carried by volunteers and the honorary office: Arrived in Vienna, Fathers for everyone, strangers become friends, Start with a Friend, Free Girls Movement,Train of Hope, the platform for a human asylum policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] 2015 was the year of humanity, the year of civil society, civil society action, civil society aid, the year to which all of us have a relation and most of us have a reference person. [[Abg. Belakovich:... the immigrants!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] This civil society can and also wants to help now because people are in need and because it is disgraceful not to do so, because ugly images are not a fate, our solidarity is not flexible and we take over sponsorships for people and not for deportations. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Stop your hatred! Stop your hate sermons! Stop your hatsparols! I'm telling you this as a Vienna woman. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We are all Vienna, we are not split.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8111	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8150	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! You may not hear it so clearly in the recording, but it is called a lot in between. I have listened to the speeches of my previous speakers very actively, I honestly lack the substance. There is, of course, another mix between migration, integration and the state budget in the urgent request of the liberals – that is possible or not – but the question of the state budget is at least in the matter. I do not see in the speeches I have heard so far, of course, except for those of my colleague, Scherak, any serious effort to find an answer to how we can really solve problems that arise in our country. There were hardly any speeches in which one seriously asked why the aid does not come to businesses and entrepreneurs. What measures can we take now to reduce unemployment and short-term work? What about the future of families who have too little money with the future of single parents? There were almost no answers in the speeches, and I wonder – and I seriously wonder – that: How can you let this happen today as it goes? [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] At the moment, the Members of this House are in a very privileged position. We all have a secure future right now and we can do our work safely in relation to other people in our country. Doing work without worry implies, from my point of view, even more than usual, the responsibility that we put solutions on the table. These solutions have so far failed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have looked at how we are currently dealing with the benefits also announced by Mr Blümel, the corona aid to an amount of EUR 48 billion, which has been decided. The result is very sobering. According to our records, not even half of the aid decided on, i.e. 20 billion euros, Mr Minister, and 17 billion euros of which are grants and guarantees. In other words, companies with no liquidity now have been able to leave their tax benefits for hours and resort to guarantees, but this does not include an answer to the question of how a company that is now experiencing losses will invest and work out of this crisis in the future. These are debts that the state has at the moment charged to the companies. These debts have not all been incurred because the corona virus has broken over us, and these debts have arisen because there has been a lockdown that has been significantly initiated by the Federal Government, and partly because of information that we now feel is no longer correct. They have often also been created by the fact that many restrictions have been imposed by the legislator, while at the same time the Epidemic Act has been amended in the form that as an entrepreneur one cannot claim the damage suffered by it to the state anymore. These are the facts to which Minister Blümel is currently reacting only in this way: Please make debts, and we'll make sure you can pay them back later! – However, figures must be done by entrepreneurs, not by Minister Blümel, in contrast to how he is trying to present this. Previously, we talked about the fixed-cost grant, which is also quite exciting: The large package, the answer for companies with which one does not provide foreign capital, i.e. future debts, but with which one can also strengthen the capital base by means of a direct grant by giving money directly to those concerned, has turned out to be a colossal belly spot, which should not be given a second time. You have, of course, forgotten to mention this, Minister. They have provided 8 billion euros, 1.5 percent of which have been used up, i.e. 116 million euros. Why is that? This is because at the same time you have created a bureaucracy that fears every entrepreneur. People in our country prefer to plead rather than resort to your help – because it is hopeless. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, it is not only bureaucratic, but it is also inflexible and does not create the possibility for all industries with their often very specific problems to be able to access these aids, even though as ministers themselves you emphasize that there is a need for greater flexibility. I honestly have the impression – and this is also very important – that there is really a lot of calculature inside, just as the colleague Scherak did before. You have taken the European Commission as a scapegoat for your own failure, for your own inability to make a correct request. And here I have a suspicion to the ÖVP – I will not say much about the Vienna election – that there was a real thought in the election centre: What would be the best of all possibilities for our Gernot Blümel so that he can no longer harm the party in the future? – There they said: There is a position in our country, one that is ideally suited for him: not a city councillor in Vienna. This ensures everything: He continues to get his money – that's very important for the ÖVP – he can't break anything, he doesn't need a laptop, it doesn't matter how many zeros he forgets in his Excel list. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] For this, you have now put him at the head of the city ÖVP, and that only with one intention: to praise him away. By the way, we support this concern NEOS. One last point and then I stop: It is indeed so – and it is also very important to us to bear in mind the Freedom Party – that we face the most difficult economic situation that the country has seen in the last decades, with the most difficult labour market situation. So far we share your analysis. The answer to the question of how we can rebuild our country economically is to work with all the people in our country, with all entrepreneurs, no matter where they were born and where citizenship they have, with all the people who work in our country. We will all need, and that is exactly the vision we have NEOS for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8229	Next speaker: Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8254	Madam President. Minister! High house! Today, the mask has really liked it so much that it could no longer have fallen annoyed, and that in the truest sense of the word. They set off a theatre around the masks to protect your minister and perhaps future councillor – because he will not bring it further. Then it's just the minister who's waving his staff and whispering into his ear at a distance of 10 centimetres without a mask here in the high house. [[The speaker shows on a tablet a statue of the transmission of the National Council meeting.]] By the way, this is also in the TV library, during the speech of Mrs Belakovich, to check. More embarrassing, more obvious than you have done this today can You don't even do that, a bigger revelation page you can hardly afford, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you said: Our passion is to solve problems! – We are happy to talk about the problems! Let's talk about what comes out if you always announce, promise, claim, but don't do anything! Let us assess this in relation to asylum. They claim that the ÖVP would drive a hard line. They're throwing 2 billion euros for asylum at the window. They are bringing over 8 000 illegals into the country this year, alone in September 1 289. – So solve problems, ladies and gentlemen! It's like a guy like a Mr. Yazan A. coming to the country. Do you know who that is? – A poor unaccompanied minor, a minor stranger. So he's one of the kids you're talking about in the Moria debate. One of these children, ladies and gentlemen, murdered 16-year-old Manuela in Vienna's Neustadt – first murdered and then in retrospect after the murder. This is the truth and reality you need to look into! Ladies and gentlemen! The little girl found her own mother, which by the way is also Manuela. Since that day, I've been in contact with the mother. Today, too, I have telephoned with her on my way to Parliament, and I may make the following offer to you: It is available to every person responsible in this Republic for a personal four-eye discussion because it no longer holds it, as you are talking about the need to help children in Moria, that they must be saved while such a “child” – under quotation marks – has killed their child, ladies and gentlemen. I will look carefully at whether you are a competent member of the government, but also if you, as government parties, accept this mother's call or if you do not have the courage to do so. If you do, you will see the girl's mother in your eyes and talk to her about solving problems, causing problems and protecting children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are already on the subject of distribution justice. This Yazan A., the poor child, was sentenced to 40,000 euros in damages – this will not bring the daughter back or the like. In fact, the family will never see anything of this money, because of it simply nothing to get. If he is to spend the full time, he will cost the Austrian taxpayer 700 000 euros until he is released into freedom. Ladies and gentlemen! Even to the danger that you claim or some of you will say that this is not politically correct: It would be morally correct to send this murderer home because he has lost protection with us, and the money he consumes in the luxury port and that the Austrian taxpayer has to spend for him, could be given to the victim's family as a replacement, even though that will no longer bring back the small Manuela. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the truth: You're not a problem solver, you're a steam plumber and causer. This is also the difference between ÖVP and FPÖ and what bothers you so much about Klubobmann Kickl. He was the only one in the black and blue government who acted. By the way, this was also the reason – because you didn't get through it with their left NGOs like Caritas and Co – why you had to get rid of it. This is also the motive for all the donations in which you try to pull him through the dirt today. Ladies and gentlemen! The However, Austrian people have long seen who in this country is only steaming and who is really willing to act if he is in charge. A very good example of this is still to be made in the form of an application. You even agree with requests that you simply do not implement because you are now with the Greens in the government. It is a request which has already been voted on and which I should like to make once again: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, it must be over with the problem societies, and the problem this society has here in this House is: You don't know the difference between attitude and het. Our liberal attitude is quite clear: As long as only one Austrian needs help in this country, there is no cent for immigration and asylum abuse! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8491	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Gudrun Kugler, you will speak next. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8515	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The same question was asked by several Members – Mr Schnedlitz said, Mr Scherak, whom I can only call with his speech today as a handful of the Freedom Party, but also colleague Krainer –: What is the difference between a consistent asylum policy on the part of the People's Party and what the Freedom Party is presenting? – I would like to explain it because I believe that it can be very interesting for voters in Vienna. The first point: For you, colleagues from the Freedom Party, it's not about people, you don't want to help. [[Abg. Kickl: It's yours!]] We're trying to help, but we're trying to help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That means: We'll help out on the spot. [[Abg. Kickl: Help out here on site in Austria!]] They don't care about the dignity of a human being if he has the wrong passport in his hand, and we can't carry it as Christian-socials, because that's national, and nationally has never brought us forward. [[Abg. Belakovich: Mr Krainer said that too!]] We don't want to pick up a few privileged ones but create decent accommodations, but you don't want to help from the FPÖ. Let me give you an example: You are not right for us to increase the foreign disaster fund. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Another example: After the 2015 election, I was Vienna City Councillor and Environment Committee. Do you know what the liberal colleague said there? – We should discuss in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection the environmental pollution caused by migrants in Vienna. That's how you see the world! [[Abg. Belakovich: Let's discuss this!]] [[Abg. Steger: The ecological footprint!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They have all three cars!]] A second point: We are consistent in our asylum policy, but we do not reject the foreign people in themselves. That's a very, very big difference. In your urgent request, you will write that international asylum law is a false policy. I'm sorry, but that's about human rights, it's about a guest's right, and because it's not being exploited, the People's Party stands for that, too, our Minister of the Interior. You have certainly read that yesterday it came out that it was the Minister of the Interior who could reveal a social fraud ring in Graz. [[Abg. Belakovich: How could he do this?]] Social fraud must not be committed, and that is what we stand for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: We have to take action!]] We also support the fact that our borders are not simply overrun illegally – 2015 is not allowed to repeat itself. You, Mr Kickl, say: Then we'll set up a prison somewhere! – We have laws, and we also adhere to these laws within a consistent asylum policy. [[Abg. Kickl: What's against that?]] Many examples that you have brought today – Mr Kickl, but also Mr Schnedlitz – contradict diametric international law and human rights. It is possible to pursue a consistent asylum policy, just as we do, and at the same time to have a basic humanitarian attitude, because that is only in line with the dignity of man. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I hope you don't believe what you're doing!]] We have a third difference, because you, ladies and gentlemen, want to get rid of the world. You mean there's only Austria. What you overlook is that, when bad things happen in other parts of the world – which concerns people with their own dignity – it also has an impact on Austria. We want to assume our responsibility all over the world. We don't live on an island. [[Abg. Belakovich: Be responsible in Austria!]] Let me give you an example: Last week in the Human Rights Committee, here in this Chamber, we decided on a request – all against the votes of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Kickl: You have closed the Balkan Route as great cosmopolitans!]] A new study by the UN has found out that there are many countries in the world where child punitiveness is seven years old. It is said that children should not be brought to prison before 14 years of age. The FPÖ voted against – because you don't care how people are doing outside Austria. That's not our attitude. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is not possible, however, that we say – as some parts of the SPÖ say – that we open the borders, and then we do not see the problems of immigration. The problems we have in Vienna have already fallen several times today. [[Abg. Kickl: Always the same lab, you don't get into action!]] There are schools in Vienna with 90 percent children with non-German mother tongue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sir.]] 80 percent of compulsory school leavers in Vienna do not meet the educational standards in the field of reading, writing and mathematics. We have a ghetto formation in Vienna, foreign conflicts that are carried out on our streets. We even have the phenomenon of forced and pediatric ewe in Vienna. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, really?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: In Graz and Innsbruck it is the same!]] It seems, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that you even like this as a cultural diversity. We won't do that. Integration in Vienna, as you do, has failed. We will not gradually allow our beloved Vienna to rule down from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Colleagues of the Freedom Party: Instead of noise, we work for the people affected by Corona! [[Abg. Steger: Daily life of the Minister of Finance!]] This morning, our Minister of Finance has made sure that the aid funds are extended. He has a differentiated concept – not a casting pot, as you suggest. [[Abg. Belakovich: “Does it cost what it wants ”?]] Mr Krainer: The local package, as it is currently defined, is exactly the same as the current tax withdrawal. What will be next year, we will also support and contribute next year. We – above all our Finance Minister Gernot Blümel – ensure that no one is left behind in this country in the Corona crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8818	The next speaker was Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e8840	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it very exciting that the speakers of the ÖVP are today trying very strongly to establish the Christian-social roots and the Christian social doctrine. After weeks they have waged a campaign with liberal slogans and content. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I can tell you: I grew up in the tradition of Christian social doctrine, which has consistently led me – as I find – to social democracy, in which it is actually implemented. However, I understand and understand because I know a lot of people and I also come into conversation with many people who have these roots, have grown up with them and for years have chosen the ÖVP that these people are bitterly disappointed by how the ÖVP has developed in recent years, months and weeks and with what slogans and content they have advertised. These people will certainly no longer be choosing the ÖVP. That seems to be what you are feeling in the discussions, and this seems to be causing you to carry in front of yourself in the election campaign liberal slogans, as we have already heard from Klubobmann Kickl, but now at once try to keep the old tribal election still at the bar by trying the Christian social doctrine. I believe that this strategy will not go up, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One no longer dares to listen to news and press newspapers because one always reads about some disasters: which businesses will close, think of closures, want to cancel and become people. In so far as Mr Klubobmann Kickl is concerned, it is a case of failure. When you read this when you talk to the people, you will also notice what the real concerns of the people are today. We have 400 000 unemployed, so many families who no longer know how to proceed tomorrow, and we must take care of these concerns, ladies and gentlemen, in the next few days, weeks and months. The budget's on. Next week, the Minister of Finance will give his budget speech, and we expect the fight against unemployment, the support of these people to be the focus of the forthcoming budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that the liberals are blind on this eye and there is no real concern behind it does not surprise us, because we would be standing somewhere else today if under the phase in which you were with the Turks in the government had not been abolished important instruments of support. We would be much better today if these support instruments – employment programmes for older workers, training for young people – still existed. At the time, they dramatically reduced the budget for the AMS. If that hadn't happened, we'd be different today, despite the corona crisis, which of course has accelerated a lot, and could be better intercepted. In other words, we need sufficient resources for labour market policy in the coming budget. The foundation you are now talking about is nothing but a compensation for the funds that have been depleted at the time. It's not a foundation! What you plan does not offer the security of a foundation, it only carries the label and brings only what has been deleted from you. We need a strong economic package. Today, the mayor of Vienna has presented a business package of 600 million euros. We must achieve a special effort with each other in order to be able to counter-tax accordingly. In order to be effective in this respect, I have to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We must also remember that we are just financing the measures. Get into action, enough press conferences! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9066	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Alois Schrollzu, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9096	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A real correction: Mrs. Dr. Gudrun Kugler, National Councillor, said in her speech that the municipal investment programme of Mr. Blümel's Minister of State of the State of Blümel of 1 billion euros, which was decided, corresponds exactly to the tax loss of the municipalities. This municipal investment programme is a co-financing programme for the municipalities, and I can tell you as mayor – we have made a cassade crash, and many, many mayors in this country as well –: It's not right what you said. The right thing is that the municipalities lack EUR 2.2 billion in taxes, municipal taxes and income – exactly EUR 2.2 billion, that is fact. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9127	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9148	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So, we still do not know where this alleged billion tomb lies because of the wrong asylum, immigration and integration policy. [[Call the FPÖ: You didn't listen!]] I admit, however, that everything else would have surprised me very much, but the claim comes from a FPÖ that is very resistant to facts, from a FPÖ, which has already called for the closure of the labour market for non-Austrian citizens, including EU citizens. [[Abg. Belakovich: More often!]] This would be a smooth breach of justice, for which the tens of thousands of Austrians, in particular, would be grateful, who work abroad in the EU. No one will seriously expect that if Austria adopts such a measure, the EU foreign country – the evil one – would not also take countermeasures. Once again it shows how a particularly patriotic FPÖ requirement meets in particular those which it is supposed to protect, namely the Austrians. It is as in reality also with many other FPÖ requirements. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But if we come to a more important point, we will come to the health, economic and labour market crisis. It must also be pointed out again and again that the labour market crisis has its causes, of course, also in pre-corona times, for which all the former government parties sitting here bear responsibility, even though some today would like to know nothing more about it. There's no hour of zero starting with Corona. There is unemployment benefit, which has been reduced from about 58 percent to just under 55 percent since 1989. There was a financial and economic crisis in 2008 and in the following years, and it was decided in the middle of this financial and economic crisis in 2012 in this House a fiscal pact with a debt brake that gave us lost years and the highest unemployment of all time in the Second Republic, that is to say, from 260 000 people who were unemployed in 2012 to 357,000 unemployed in 2016 – just over 9 percent. These are figures, as we unfortunately have them today. This also confirms long-term unemployment, which has not really been depleted since then. We don't want that anymore! That is why this government has also decided as a central measure a 700 million euro training and qualification package for future professions in the fields of climate protection, digitalisation, care and social services. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yesterday, the two AMS Boards of Directors in the Committee said: The crisis is exactly the right time for training, qualification and reorientation. Of course, further measures to combat unemployment will also be needed. Yes, of course, there will be the often mentioned employment foundations for particularly affected regions, for particularly affected enterprises, for particularly affected sectors. This was made quite clear yesterday by the two boards. At the same time, however, as much as never before is invested in climate protection, in the ecological transformation of our economic system, in a job offensive, in public transport, in renewable energies and in thermal renovation. In its urgent request, the FPÖ refers to the fact that only alms would have existed for the Austrians in the course of the crisis. Obviously, if you believe science and not some fakes, it is so that these alms have worked very well. Recently this study by the Wifo, the IHS and other economic research institutes has been published, which clearly shows that the measures taken by this government against the risk of poverty and against a shift in income distribution, although of course not all groups were equally affected. [[keeping a copy of the study in height]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] But the fact is: Fortunately, the social crisis has been avoided for the time being. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: First! First of all! First of all!]] But one thing I like to admit: The measures were not only for Austrians, but for all the people who live here in this country, regardless of their origin and skin color, as long as they have a legal claim to them. [[Abg. Worm: Did you sleep yesterday...?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The measures mentioned as alleged alms are short-time work, the increase in unemployment benefit, the increase in emergency aid, the increase in family aid, the reduction in the tax rate and the increased negative tax. The extension of emergency aid and the increase in the compensatory allowance rate are not yet in place, otherwise the balance sheet would probably look even better. But that's no reason to knock on the shoulder. On the contrary: This is motivation to do even more to prevent poverty and unemployment in order to prevent the social crisis in order to combat poverty and unemployment, but not the poor and the unemployed – regardless of the colour of the skin, the origin and the citizenship of the affected, because they are all part of our society. [[Abg. Deimek: Well, you have to...!]] That is what we call solidarity and we only come out of the crisis in solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9277	Next speaker: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9298	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We live in a multiple crisis. After all, the pandemic and the economic crisis have been addressed – the environmental crisis is surprisingly still too little. We are in a mega-environmental crisis, and if you look at all these questions, one thing is clear: There is no national solution to any of these questions, even in detail. Nothing can be solved here in Austria alone. Everything is only – in the best case – European to solve, and this, of course, also applies to the issue of asylum. To say: We block Austria and the asylum issue is solved!, of course, is nonsense. First of all, I always ask for a distinction between migration and asylum. As regards asylum, the EU Commission has prepared a proposal, and Mr Kurz has just said: No, that is certainly nothing for us, we do not want to, we will certainly not participate in any European solution. – Already there we have seen: You are no longer Europeans, because I am at the next point, and I brought you a book, it will not surprise you: [[Keeping the book “The European Landboats” in height]] We are also in an educational crisis, Mr. Federal Minister. This is a book by Robert Menasse. Her young colleagues, who are quite unsuspecting, read “Robert Menasse”, read “Hitler”, saying: Get out of here, we've got to get out of here! If you have read this book – that is not so bad for those who do not read so much – it is only 125 pages – then you would have understood in a relatively short time what European agreement is, but also what the European Commission is. In your FPÖ speech, these are the Brussels bureaucrats – in your FPÖ speech. These are not the Brussels Democrats. Read the book, then find out about someone who came back with great skepticism in 2012, I think, to Brussels, when enthusiastic Europeans came and wrote very enthusiastically about this Europe! This is the next point: Mr El-Nagashi said that there were so many similarities between the FPÖ and the AfD. If I look at this right now, for example, in the question of Moria, I have to say: Between ÖVP and AfD, I see many similarities, while Christian parties, such as the German Christian Socialists and the German Christian Democrats, argue more like the NEOS. That is, there have been some shifts, and what has shifted hurts the Austrians. Something else harms them, namely the travel warnings, and I would like to draw attention to the next point: ==References== September the European Commission announced that we must finally stop these national and regional travel warnings, that we need a European system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Precisely, Mr Hörl knows what it is about, because he is about survival in Tyrol. But they have not yet understood that it is about survival, and they continue to do with the Austrian travel warnings. [[Abg. Hear: Yes!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What do I hear from the EU Commission? – This government is opposed to a European solution. [[Abg. Hörl:... this solution!]] They want to work on national issues, but this will not work. Now I have reached the last point, and unfortunately I have to go to Ibiza shortly because what we have seen in Ibiza is indeed a system. It has not been said that the rich pay so that they get posts and laws, but what was announced there has finally been implemented. If you look at the text between Mr. Schmid and Mrs. Glatz-Kremsner, you think: After all, politics is as primitive as it is imagined by the small Maxi: You know what, let's cook together, and then you'll be CEO, wrote Thomas Schmid. And Glatz-Kremsner wrote: Yeah, you can eat well. I'm glad to be CEO. I'm gonna support you, too. You're gonna be something. Then they said: Then we'll start our careers! Unbelievable! Now you have to imagine: Thomas Schmid is the head of the Austrian state participations. Now I'm telling you something: You can do that with the message control in Austria, even though you just notice that it is difficult. [[Abg. Kassinger: colleague, with which party...?]] For the European newspapers, the European media are very difficult. And what turns out? . We have a problem with our economy internationally and in Europe if you continue to consider Öbag as a playground for Mr. Schmid and other incompetent people. That is why I am putting a motion for a resolution – thank you – which is very simple, and I also know that it is not quite that simple legally, but you have it in your hand, you can of course solve it through the Annual General Meeting: [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I'll tell you something. If you don't do this very soon, you'll harm the Austrian economy even more than you've done. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[15:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9451	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9478	Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9494	Excuse me, honourable Member, you have two minutes left to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9509	Thank you, Madam President. I'll talk very quickly. It has been a topic today and also in the Vienna election campaign several times: What distinguishes the ÖVP from the liberals? – I tell you, it’s very easy: These are the actors and we wrote the script. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In 2017, they threw their party program into the trash bin, took over our programmatics and have played a role since then, but they only play a role, they don't put things into practice. Now, if we look at the individual gentlemen: The Minister plays the main role of “Honey in the head”. Who knows the movie: He has forgotten everything, he forgets everything, he forgets his laptop, he forgets his statements in the investigation committee, he decides a budget of 102 000 euros – that would not even have been enough to make a donation to the Alois-Mock union. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Cainz]] The director is in Lower Austria, and the Souffleur is not sitting in front of us, but mostly behind us – and I do not mean you now, Madam President, you know who I mean. Then there are a few side-by-side actors. These are the left Monty Python, so the knights of the green coconut. [[towards the Green sage]] There is everything there is, from “The life of Brian” to “A fish called Wanda” and if they do not track, there is an apple in the mouth and two pommes in the nose – that is what reminds us of the image of Mr Kogler. The following is then “Ocean’s Eleven” or: We're gonna blow the bank, Minister. Next week, this series will start with your budget speech, and I am curious as you will explain to us why we will pay 400 million euros more to Brussels than before. This will be the big question, because you yourself have said: 1 per cent of GDP, that must remain! You represented Zorro at the time, this is the man who is always missing here in Parliament, the man with the mask, our Federal Chancellor. He's acting, making a press conference, and he's gone again. They represented him at the time and said: no more than 1 percent of GDP. I'm curious about how it works. GDP is going down, economic downturn is more than 7 percent, Austrian companies are fighting for survival, jobs are lost, and we are paying 400 million euros more.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9557	Mr President, you now have to submit the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e9573	Thank you for reminding me. I put in place the motion for a resolution on jobs, on many lost jobs in our country: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[15:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10072	The motion for a resolution has been tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10096	Madam President. High house! Today, Vienna is at the heart of our debate at this special meeting. I would like to talk here about the difficulties that exist in Vienna. Our Finance Minister has already pointed out that there are schools in Vienna that have a share of over 90 percent of students with non-German language. [[Abg. Yılmaz: What does that tell you?]] There seems to be almost impossible a corresponding class. There are a total of 71.7 percent of people with non-German native language in Vienna schools. There are parallel societies, there is violence, and many people just feel strange in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you feel strange, there will be a lot of problems. There is one of the highest rates of crime in Vienna, especially in the areas where the red and green urban government has missed a corresponding housing policy and integration policy over the past ten years. Therefore, it is not surprising that there is one of Austria's highest crime rates in these districts, such as in favourites, and that there is also a 50 percent increase in the number of foreigners in Vienna compared to the rest of Austria from 2010 to 2020. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Go, stop!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: This is the same in all major cities! That's the same thing in Graz!]] Such an increase is not possible in any other district or in any other state of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! These are problems that have been created in the absence of a relevant local policy, and this is what it is about to be changed. There is a need for a clear order, so there is a need for an integration policy and a reform policy, as we have already decided at the federal level, a minimum guarantee which has been reformed for the whole of Austria so that people no longer find themselves in it and are no longer entitled to performance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] It's about promoting performance again. There is a federal state, ladies and gentlemen, a federal that has not implemented this basic social assistance law. This is Vienna, and there Vienna is clearly unconstitutional. I'm telling you, dear Wiener SPÖ Members: Make sure that Vienna returns to the Constitutional Arch! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because representatives of the ATB and the Social Democratic Union have also tried to make the wind and draw the Federal Government into something that is not, I would like to say once again: Do you know who led the situation at ATB? Skill Remember when a Social Democratic delegation drove to China to get orders for ATB? [[Keeping the expression of an article in height]] – ‘Red China offensive’, Matznetter in the first place, Androsch in second place and the president, Madam President Bures; ‘NETZWERKER. SP politician Matznetter’. They have provided jobs at ATB, today ATB is facing insolvency. Matznetter and Wittmann sat in the Supervisory Board. They owe it to themselves, led it themselves, and at the end of October almost 400 employees of ATB are facing termination. Don't be so hypocritical! Follow your responsibilities, and do not try to push them off politically if you even sit in the Supervisory Boards yourself and with your China connection have perhaps even led this group into insolvency! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10191	Mr Gerstl, I give you a call for an order for the term ‘shambles’. The next item is the speech by Mr Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10223	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr. Angerer is talking about actors and screenwriters here, then one is quite clear: Whether it's the FPÖ or the ÖVP, it's a staging what you're doing here today, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Mr Gerstl comes here and talks about the ATB, one has to say that the Austrian Federal Chancellor has not yet had time for the ATB's Works Council. That's actually what you need to talk about here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One feels the nervousness of the FPÖ before the election Sunday, which is noticeable throughout the debate. At the same time, I say to you: They are already addressing two important issues. You address two important issues, but you mix them, and that's the mistake. On the one hand, it is about escape and asylum and on the other hand about the question: How do we finance this crisis? This is, I believe, the crucial point that we are asking ourselves the question: How do we finance this crisis? There, Minister of Finance, you're smart. They're tough when it comes to giving real help. This is reflected in this crisis management from the beginning. It started with the removal of the epidemic law. Then there was only bureaucratic economic aid. The people, the entrepreneurs, say outside on the street: When I picked up the 500 euros of economic aid from the Minister of Finance, I fell out of the back of 10 000 euros, which is about the balance I have after this government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we ask ourselves the question of how we finance this crisis, then we need to talk about justice and tax justice, because it cannot be that one can still choose the tax loopholes and ship taxes, disappear into any tax spheres, and the other month, it must be a good one – the true providers of this company. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot be that we are saving everywhere so that the companies still have the opportunity to shift their profits across Europe until the end of the day nothing More remains and finally the diligent and decent, the service providers of this society, then pay the tokens for this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen! What it needs, what it really needs, is a serious policy, is a decently large employment package, are employment impulses. We need to see that we get an apprenticeship offensive on the rail that there is no lost generation. We need the skilled workers, the professionals again in the future, so now we have to act and now deal with all the energy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say one thing: The financing of the crisis is a matter of justice. As we are dealing with the issue of escape and asylum, that is a question of humanity. I feel that the government fails on the issue of justice and on the question of humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10304	Next speaker: Mr Georg Bürstmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10326	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Kickl, when I listened to your speech, I asked myself how the parable of the merciful Samaritan looked, there would be a Gospel to Herbert. Then this man, who fell among the robbers and was left bloody and without clothing, would probably not have been laid down by the Samaritan and put on his donkey, and until he was healthy, had been housed in an inn, but had been asked to what tribe he belonged to, whether he had the right passport, and because he had the wrong passport, the Samaritan would have left him lying. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's pretty stupid what you're saying!]] Today, people in existential distress in Austria are no longer dependent on the mercy of Samaritans, but they have rights in this country, they have a right to be admitted, they have a right to live decently, even during the duration of their asylum process. They have a right to protection and asylum if they need protection and asylum. This is good and we stand for it, and as long as we stand here, it will remain the same. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schnedlitz: You are the first to talk to...!]] You know, Mr Kickl, it's easy to say that there are these rights, these benefits only for people from our group who have, so to speak, the right barrage. To help him who smells right, that can be ants too; to help him who belongs to his own pack, but to crush the others, that can also wolves. Why do we Greens agree that people are being helped because they are people? - Because we are humans and not wolves. [[Abg. Kickl:... Bullshit! ... go over there in a smoky way!]] - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10400	Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, for your call “That’s a pretty stupid thing you’re saying!” I’m giving you a call for order. The next item is Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10449	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear citizens at home in front of the screens! My colleagues have already talked about the confusion with the corona aid. I would now like to deal specifically with the problems that EPUs and SMEs have in practice. The longer the crisis takes, the clearer it becomes that, from an economic point of view, it is a K-form, a k-shaped course. What's that? – The K shows a part to the top, another part to the bottom. The part that shows up is the recovery, the part that shows down, is another drift respectfully leaving out a recovery. So this shows: Some industries recover, it goes up again, others will fight even longer or are even threatened by an incredible pleite wave. The contribution to GDP also confirms this picture: In the first half of the year, GDP from trade and tourism fell by 7.24 billion euros, while other sectors, i.e. ICT, banking and credit, real estate and public administration, developed positively. Now it could be thought that just agile EPU networks and flexible SMEs can adapt well and therefore get better through this crisis, as they have less ballast. These are, however, dealt with by your bureaucracy and are affected by inflexible economic aid. I'll show you this once: The Minister of Finance makes full-fledged promises and seeks scapegoats in Brussels or Moria for its own planlessness. The Cofag now enjoys a huge PR budget and still several million extra legal advice, since it seems that you will not find yourself in your own house. While all this happens while the government tells beautiful stories, financial officials are being sent off to examine companies, namely companies that have applied for the fixed-cost grant. It was only this morning that an entrepreneur – an EPU – called me and told me that he had applied for a fixed-cost grant, has not seen a cent to date – it is about 1,000 euros a month – and has now received a visit from the financial auditor. So EPUs, who have applied for a fixed-cost grant, are currently receiving a visit from financial officials. Now you can say that financial auditing is nice and good when the rules are clear, it is not a problem. Only: Their examiners do not even know what they are supposed to test or how to test. Did the collected or the agreed fees apply now? How to review records to which entrepreneurs are not obliged? The matter is definitely not intended to end, and one sees that if one has a Finance Minister who has never overlaid an account, has no laptop, has never demonstrated, so it seems to have nothing to do with the reality of life of many Austrians and has little idea of it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So instead of finding solutions for the future to develop new business models, the companies are fighting with the consequences of your corona aid measures, with this chaos. Instead of taking care of their business, businessmen now take out any documents and records from the previous year. I'll tell you something. That's not how we're going to get far. They have now extended the hardness fund, but also March 2021 will come, and then we will be right where we stand today. But we have a lot of issues to solve: How do we proceed with the economy that is suffering from your help? How do we shape social security for EPUs and new self-employed? How can we adapt taxes and social security to the reality of working people? – These and many other questions need to be clarified at last, economic aid must finally flow faster and more unbureaucratically. Entrepreneurs have deserved solutions that finally take into account the different industries and sizes of companies. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[15:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10807	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10831	Madam President. Dear member of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! September, October 2020: How does it look in Austria? – In September there are 408 853 unemployed people, in short work there are 296 486 people. But that's not all. Reality looks like many hundreds of thousands of people are afraid and concerned: How's my work going next month? Can I expect a fixed income next month? How can I pay my monthly rent in November or for Christmas? Many small businesses ask themselves: How can I pay for my company rent? How can I pay the wages and salaries of my workers and employees? Many companies are in a serious crisis. In this crisis situation, there is a key task for a department, which is, of course, the financial sector. But what does the Minister of Finance do? – The Minister for Finance speaks of billions of euros being made available. I say this package of government is a mogel pack! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Finance Minister, your package is a mogel pack, because in 2018 the AMS budget was cut by 650 million euros, and now it is a bit increased. That's not serious. The abolition of action 20 000 has taken particularly older workers. Under German Chancellors In short, this action has been abolished 20 000 for older workers. The training guarantee for up to 25 years – especially this difficult year an important measure for young people in the labour market in order to get through the crisis – was abolished briefly under Federal Chancellors. The increase in access age for part-time was made under an ÖVP-led government. This, of course, increases the number of people who are on the labour market and who have no work. That is to say, in the last three years there have been severe cuts, Mr Bundesfinanzminister, and we have thus become badly involved in this corona crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Blümel, what are you doing in 2020? – The Republic of Austria would need your full commitment in the Corona year, but at the height of the crisis, you decide to become a top candidate at the Vienna election. A election campaign in Vienna as a top candidate is not a side job. You have to make your whole heart with all your time in Vienna. The question arises: What is your main job now – and what your next job –: Candidate in Vienna or Minister of Finance? The fact that Hoppalas happens then is quite clear, and you have a few hoppalas happened to you. This is so if you are not fully focused on a task. Viennabashing – which is said to be bad in Vienna – does not help either. Vienna must be strengthened, one must strengthen the economic location. Turkish politics is very much made up of PR and PR Gags. This is also evident in the situation around Moria. Numerous announced relief supplies are a PR-gag, there is nothing at all arrived at the Moria refugee camp. That was just a PR-gag. And stored and stowed in Hallen in Athens. However, ÖVP politicians have celebrated: One flies to Greece, can be photographed there, makes selfies with the refugees, while important goods of 55 million euros are stored in warehouses in Athens. That's unscrupulous! The SPÖ shows how emergency aid can look.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10882	If you still intend to put forward a motion for a resolution, then I would do so in your place now that your group's speaking time will be exhausted in one minute.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e10898	Thank you, Madam President. The SPÖ shall submit the following application: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for support. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11039	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Michel Reimon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11063	Madam President. Federal Minister! As the last speaker, I am delighted to thank the FPÖ for this special meeting, for this great opportunity, especially with Mr Klubobmann Kickl. As expected four days before the Vienna Landtagswahl, they initiate a session with a racist title and, as expected, turn to the speaker's desk and say: Nothing for foreigners, everything against foreigners! Do something for the Austrians! Do something for the Austrians! Do something for the Austrians! Well, we have established a work foundation for the unemployed. You have just heard how you have waged war against the unemployed for two years in your government, waged war against the AMS. We have made 700 million euros available to unemployed people during the Corona era. We have increased the compensation allowance. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Minimum pensioners get over 1 000 euros for the first time in this Republic. You didn't bring that together. You didn't bring this together in your government. We give minimum pensioners over 1 000 euros per month. We have increased the funds of the Family Hard Fund so that families get something so that the children get something – the Austrian children, Mr. Kickl. We have raised the burden limit for students so that they can continue. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, just praise yourself!]] You didn't bring this together, you didn't make it in your reign. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Just praise yourself! Just praise yourself!]] Today, we have increased the funding of small enterprises, the EPUs and non-governmental organisations, for associations. They get 2 billion euros, 2 billion euros of help that we can create. While you're just talking, we're doing something. You need 20 minutes to say: Do something for the Austrians! – I can tell you in 1 minute how we have driven up billions for the Austrians while you are only talking. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Please stay there, talk more about it! [[Abg. Kickl: You distribute the Austrian tax money!]] We will do something, we will do something, and we will not do one thing: We will not play out foreigners, migrants and migrants against the Austrians. We have also increased the funds of the foreign disaster fund from EUR 15 million to the end of EUR 60 million, thus quadrupling. We have set up a Special Representative to work out a strategy to ensure that it becomes a long-term aid. Today, he takes up his work: Christoph Schweifer will now coordinate the disaster aid. They stand here today as an ex-internal minister and he takes up his work – this is a beautiful day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11151	Mr Karl Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Ladies and gentlemen, your group has two minutes left to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11175	Thank you, Madam President, for the memory – I'll do it briefly. High house! I would also like to explain the position of the People's Party on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kickl and other Members on the "invoking and administrative resolution of the ATIB and the Milli-Görüs Agreements". We are of the opinion that we are critical of these organisations, extremely critical. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, critical? Critical, aha!]] We also know what kind of suspicion there is in the room, and that's why we got 25 at the time. A resolution was adopted together with the FPÖ, the JETZT list and the NEOS in September 2019. Your request today is de facto correct, just supplemented by the fact that we should now call on tax debt to be incurred and I ask you to understand: [[Abg. Kickl: Well!]] We trust the authorities that are working hard to clarify these organisations and, if necessary, to ensure the administrative resolution. We put our trust in the authorities, we trust them. We also know that this is in progress. Finally, Mr Klubobmann Kickl – it is a good conclusion –: We do not let ourselves be instrumentalized here for the election campaign. We stand before the election, in the election campaign and after the election for the Viennans and the Austrians for constructive work. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what I'm looking at! That's what I'm looking at!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11262	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. As agreed by the political groups, I ask whether we can start voting immediately or whether you wish to interrupt the sitting. We can come to the vote? - Then I'll do the same. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Stop immigration into our social system'. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, fellow Members, on the non-inclusion of ‘Moria migrants’ and the rejection of the new EU migration and asylum pact with its new redistributive action by migrants. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the tax debt collection and administrative resolution of AtIB and Milli-Görüs-Vereinen. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichfried, Mrs Leichfried, on 'Save Austrian jobs and fight against unemployment'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues on the appointment of ÖBAG Board of Directors Schmid. Who's for it? – That is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Angerer, fellow Members, on 'The urgency of measures to prevent mass announcements and to preserve jobs'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Beate Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen on "SECURITY for Economics and Jobs". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Leichtfried, colleagues, on 'Fleet, asylum, migration and integration'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[16:10:29]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-10-07-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00053_d7e11391	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 904/A to 918/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 4.11 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
