ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5913	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to welcome you very warmly and the 40. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure have been convened, declared open. [[The representatives of the FPÖ and representatives of SPÖ carry buttons with a red and white-red strip and inscriptions such as: “Protection and help for our army”, “Rettet das Bundesheer”, “For a defensive Austria”; MPs of SPÖ also carry buttons with black writing on white background and red arrows with the inscription “Back << zur Demokratie”.]] I welcome the media representatives and also the guests at home in front of the screens. In accordance with the agreement, we are again in a relaxed seating order – which was agreed again in the round of club directors. It's all like at the last meeting: The roof foyer is available, some of the Members have taken their seats in the gallery, and before the votes are interrupted again. The official protocols of 36 and 37. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In June 2020, the European Parliament's Directorate was unable to raise any objections. As an obstacle to today's sitting, MEPs are Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler, Mag. Thomas Drozda, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Peter Wurm, Wolfgang Zanger, Heike Grebien, Dipl.-Ing. Olga Voglauwerand Yannick Shetty. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e5984	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6159	As usual, I can announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 12.05 and from ORF III in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6178	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a daily block time of 3.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 68 minutes, SPÖ 47 minutes, FPÖ 39 minutes, Green 35 minutes and NEOS 28 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club for each 14 minutes; the speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are therefore going into the agenda. [[09:07:48]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for National Defence pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘OUR HEER: Current status of preparations for implementation in accordance with government programme’
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6228	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I'm entitled to the Federal Minister for Defence, Mrs Mag. Klaudia Tanner, and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism, Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger, welcome quite cordially. Following the declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with a request which is sufficiently supported. I can give the floor to the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6267	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! In the past few days a lot has been said about our army, and I will now make a few points in the course of this statement. [[Abg. Kickl: Even clearer?]] Yes, about communication in the last week you can discuss, and believe me, we have done so internally, of course. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with the NEOS]] [[Abg. Kickl: You have to, I think! You have to!]] And yes, every change also leads to resistance, that was me, that was clear to us from the beginning. [[Abg. Kickl: I know that!]] The more I am pleased to be able to clarify a lot today, because all of this does not change the matter – a thing that I am standing on and which the government has known in the government programme. I'm talking about our army being ready for the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is ready to make for the future, not for self-evident purposes, but to protect the population and our beautiful Austria. The military state defense is and remains the self-understanding of the Austrian federal army, it is in the constitution, it is held in the Austrian security strategy and it is the most direct task of our army. – No, that is not the point, ladies and gentlemen, because this is out of question. [[Abg. Amesbauer: You don't like the Constitution much!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Have you checked again?]] [[Abg. Lightenness: What is out of question?]] For me, it is about thinking and reorientating the state defense much more – thinking them further and making our army ready to protect us from new challenges, from new threats, because, ladies and gentlemen, these threats have arrived in Austria. I am thinking of the cyberattack to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which our army was already in place. I am thinking of the migration crisis when our army began to protect the borders again. I am thinking of natural disasters such as floods, in which our army has again recently supported the fire brigade and other forces and does this year after year. I am also thinking of the Corona crisis, in which our army was probably as demanded as it had been for a long time. Let's look beyond the borders of Austria: Terrorist attacks have long since arrived in Europe, large-scale blackouts like recently in New York have become a real, big threat to Austria after all expert opinions. In the Cold War decades ago, when it came to stopping the aggressors marching through, we equipped ourselves with tanks and other heavy weapons. When it came to protecting our airspace, we began to equip ourselves with interceptors and radar systems. If we now need to protect our Austria from these new challenges, we will do the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] This means no more and no less to our army than to expand our capabilities in the areas of cyberdefence, combating terrorism and protecting pandemics and other disasters in addition to the traditional military national defence. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, we will do and we will do it now. You know, a few weeks ago, I got another 30 Pandur wheel tanks. These are primarily for the protection of the team, for example in the case of terrorist attacks, they are used by us at home and abroad. At this point, one thing has been stated: These are vehicles whose value added is 70 percent in Austria. This contributes to a positive regional effect, which we must always consider and, ladies and gentlemen, become. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Let's go to the militia: The government programme clearly states that we should continue to strengthen the militia, and we will do the same. We will rethink the militia, the citizens in uniform will increasingly come to the fore. Ladies and gentlemen, how important the militia is, we have seen the first partial offer in the course of the corona crisis. She was there when we needed her – at this point a very great thank you to the soldiers! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In concrete terms, that means: We will strengthen the militia in particular through three measures. First: The militia soldiers will be able to practice regularly again. Secondly, We will equip the militia neatly – whether man’s equipment or mobility. You know that the first purchases in this area are already in progress – 200 MAN trucks, which are made available to the militia. Thirdly, The remuneration of the military soldiers, also publicly discussed, as defined by the Military Fees Act, must be fundamentally revised. An appropriate government proposal, ladies and gentlemen, will be introduced to Parliament in autumn. Let us now come to the structure of our army: From the beginning it was important to me to be a lot on the road – across Austria, in the troop, in operations and also in training, very often with one or one of you. [[Abg. Vogl: Travellers are not to be stopped!]] I was able to gain many insights and have many conversations, so I say clearly at this point: The troop is the place where we will certainly not save, but invest, ladies and gentlemen, very much! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But what is also out of question – and I have not only heard that from the soldiers on the ground – is: We need to make various optimizations in the administrative system. It can't be that in the field of procurement, the pace in which this was the case in the past. Decisions need to be made more and more where they come into play. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Especially with this process of change, we have already dealt intensively with the commanders of the various levels of leadership. It is clear, as mentioned above, that we need to invest, and you, ladies and gentlemen, have taken care of it here in Parliament by deciding on the highest defence budget we ever had – thank you for that! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Do you really think this is serious now?]] We must invest in our soldiers, in the troops and in their accommodations, and therefore it is quite clear that: We have decided that all the garrisons will be preserved, that we will present a spatial planning concept. Our stated goal, ladies and gentlemen, is to improve and expand the situation in the barracks – this is clearly stated here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] There is no question of a location, and we do not plan to close these regionally so important centres – quite the contrary. But in Carinthia, in the town of Villach, we are facing a special situation with three barracks. The goal for years and decades was to find a consensus, and we found it: A large military centre will be created, we will use two barracks in Villach, we will build a new building next to the third and we will also renovate this third barracks. This will lead to a strengthening of the location. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this may also explain some sort of ambiguity that may have existed. There have been reflections in Vienna – you all know that – for many years. We will and we want to put forward a spatial planning concept in agreement with the city. One thing, I think, is also conscious here in the House: Changes always cause resistance, but we also need to use changes. If, over the next ten years, the largest wave of retirement is in the army and many thousands of members will retire, it is my duty and our task to assess exactly where post-occupying is being carried out, while at the same time creating new posts in the fields of cyberdefence, ABC defence and so on. This is not only because of military considerations, but also because of responsibility to taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I spoke briefly about airspace surveillance: Of course, as required in the Constitution and in many legal provisions, I am committed to active and passive airspace surveillance. You all know that big decisions are coming, you all know that the preparations for this are in the final phase, but it is also very important to me to seek consensus, to provide information, to ensure transparency. We will, of course, involve the political groups in this regard in order to find the most cost-effective solution. Although in the past many defence ministers' meetings were only possible on a virtual basis, it is always important to look beyond the borders of Austria. At each of these meetings, our role, the role of Austria in international missions, was praised. This is an important part of our considerations, and, ladies and gentlemen, the government programme also speaks a clear and very clear language. We will develop a foreign deployment concept, of course, with the involvement of all relevant ministries, taking into account all legal requirements to better cover the entire conflict cycle. Why are we doing that? – To help us resolve conflicts that could potentially also be a danger to us to participate on the spot where they take place. In recent weeks, the museum has also been very intensively discussed. – We will actively take care of further development. The competent section head has been instructed to convene the second Commission, thus continuing the assessment. Clearly, the Army History Museum will remain under the administration of the Federal Ministry of Defence, and it is also clear that the Army History Museum must take the step in the present time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The future of the museum's leadership will also be discussed after the audit of the Court of Auditors. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I can come to our most important task. We must lead the Austrian federal army into the middle of society; that is the place our army, which our soldiers deserved. A measure that we will put in place for this purpose is the establishment of so-called protection and assistance zones, based on autarchic barracks – there has been an all-party decision in this respect – which will become the focal point for crisis management and will serve at the same time to protect the population. They will cover the entire federal territory, and our respective commanders will become regional contacts for citizens, intervention organisations and authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! These are parts of our concept that we have been working on since the beginning of my term of office – internal work. It is probably not surprising for you, because it is only logical because it is all on the government programme that you all know. “Out of responsibility for Austria” is on this programme, and that is exactly how I justify each of these points. Now we are at the beginning of a process of change, of implementation. Last week, the various levels of leadership, from the Chief of Staff to the General Staff, the military and brigade commanders to the level of battalion commanders, were also informed about the basic positions and involved in the process. High house! Dear Seers! I am in front of you, before 183 Members of Parliament, who represent around nine million Austrians, who are in turn protected by our federal army. Let us stand up for this army, just as the soldiers, the soldiers and civilians of our resort use for us day after day! One last thing to conclude: If one or another thinks I have the most ungrateful job of the Republic, then I tell you at this point No, I have one of the most beautiful and responsible tasks in this Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Belakovich: No one said that!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Hopefully never long!]] I'll be at the end of the sentence. Quite open: To move something for our army, for the security of Austria, you need bundled forces, but above all one thing: Courage and confidence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6531	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6553	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, that's not how national defence goes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But I think you know that after a week of stumbling and stumbling yourself. Reform plans in the back room of the coffee house Bück to present you and to be postulated by your chief of staff, testifies to an order work from the Federal Chancellor's Office. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kaniak.]] Not even being personally present when it comes to the defence of the state, that is, Mrs Tanner, not manageable. Turquoise Spindoctors remove the investigative committee and the chancellor's memory gaps – they are only exceeded by those of the Minister of Finance – but this plan has not gone up, especially in the context of the reform of the future state defense of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Parliament – despite valid national security situation – has not been informed and the entire general staff has been hidden and the entire federal army is now insecured – keyword: Close personnel and barracks. Mrs. Minister, her plans are not going through, but they're a tanner and a slug. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A Minister of Defence should ensure protection and security – you have reached the opposite. With the dismantling of the military defense and the degradation of the army to a technical assistance service, you have also launched the fire brigades, Mrs. Minister. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Light peace.]] You know how I know that the voluntary fire brigades in the event of disasters are always the first organization in the site of action. Should firearms, for example, fight with the German army in the future about technical equipment and the role of civil protection, such as the funds? – Instead, it would be appropriate to immediately encourage the re-purchasing of the Alouette III multi-purpose helicopters, otherwise the German army’s disaster aid from the air can only be very limited. Ladies and gentlemen! Until now, all the parties have also been familiar with the Constitution, in Art. 79 para. 1 the military state defense is committed. It is the prize for Austria's sovereignty and for Austria's neutrality; Statesmen like Renner, Schärf, Kreisky, but also legendary blacks like Raab or Figl – I remember: “Austria is free” – have fought for our freedom for ten years. This political legacy, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly do not sacrifice turquoise spin doctors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more thing is to say: Each state has an army, either its own or a foreign one – and the Austrians know that very well. If there are two identity features in this Republic that are out of dispute in the population, then these are neutrality on the one hand and anti-CFC policies on the other. However, it was an ÖVP old chancellor who challenged both values, who called neutrality a museum because he wanted to go to Nato, and, after his Chancellorship, hired an atomic lobby; the same chancellor to whom we owe the wicked Eurofighters. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – By the way, Mrs. Minister, Airbus has already met you? [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Everything wouldn't have been so difficult. You could have built on the preliminary work of your predecessors. I would like to quote two examples here: It was Hans Peter Doskozil, who launched a comprehensive investment and modernisation programme for the German army, invested only 500 million euros in the infrastructure of the barracks. [[Abg. Haubner: There again the SPÖ has two points...!]] Doskozil, by the way, developed the concept of interest-led neutrality policy, says: the foreign operations of the German army serve more and more the interest of Austria and its peace policy. In addition, Doskozil was a rock in the fire in the refugee crisis, both as chief of police and as Minister of Defense. Or your immediate predecessor Thomas Starlinger: He is a well-known military expert who, with his general staff, has developed the Best Practice Model Our Army 2030, a paper that includes all scenarios of modern threats and eventualities, and not – as now – based on possibility of entry and, in truth, fails to budgetly adapt to military needs. [[Abg. Wöger: What about the Darabos?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: What is this speech?]] [[Abg. Steinacker:... Spindoctor written!]] If, as claimed, you are working on the government program and at the same time talking about the dissolution of the brigades, then that is how if a football trainer lets his team run up without a middle field. The hub of every military operation is the brigades, and their resolution is not in the government program. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Mrs. Minister, you could have asked the head of the General Staff, General Brieger, how this is precisely the case with the military defense, because he was at the time as the leader in the operational planning for the 1991 Yugoslavia War, when war – it was war – came to our borders: dramatic scenes on the border with Styria and Carinthia, dead on the other side of the border. Border use and the military defense were absolutely necessary, as the Yugoslav People's Army was on and on it to take a Slovenian barracks across Austrian territory. Mrs Minister, therefore, my appeal: Do not reduce the German army to a technical relief, but show responsibility for the protection of the Republic of Austria and forget [[Call the ÖVP:Darabos!]] You are not our particular role as a non-Nato country in Europe! We will not take part in an attack war, we will not have to put Austrian soldiers under arms, we will not pay the highest price of a dispute, so we should have our national defence and therefore all the soldiers, whether professional frameworks, presenters or militias, have the necessary respect and they should also have their activity to protect Austria in the serious case. For this reason, the opposition also brings in the parliamentary petition “Rettet the Federal Hero”. It is inevitable and necessary, because the Austrian people stand for their federal army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6707	Next item is the report by Mr Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e6728	Mr President. Mrs. Minister for Defence! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! After the Federal Minister's statement, before I come to the main part of my speech, allow me to address a subject, as this is the first plenary session after this incident: [[Abg. Belakovich: That was no explanation, that was...!]] In principle, we are also open to intense discussions, but what Mrs Krisper did last week in the Ibiza Investigation Committee, where she forced the trial judge to resign through targeted mobbing, was a verbal derailment that cannot be allowed to go through. [[Ah-Rufe at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: Jössas!]] [[Call the SPÖ: But this is not a topic! Thematic miss!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] Although Mrs Krisper is not in the house now, I ask her to apologise to Mrs. Dr. Ilse Huber and to acknowledge her behaviour. [[Abg. Scherak: Not in the house?! Mr President, can you explain to Mr Hammer what the rules of procedure are?]] [[Abg. Easy: Mr President, on the matter!]] [[further calls at SPÖ and FPÖ]] I also demand club chairmen Beat Meinl-Reisinger to take on their responsibility. This is unworthy of a Parliament, as was the case with the judge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] For the discussion on the defence of the country: I hope that today's day, with the declaration of the Federal Minister and also of the National Security Council in the afternoon, will be the return to an open and objective discussion. In fact, it is surprising – and the Federal Minister has also mentioned this – that a discussion has been started from an admittedly not entirely successful communication, where only once considerations have been presented, a discussion process has been started. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: Discussion on military national defence...? Have you been running where?]] In recent days, comments and words have already been made, which were clearly exaggerated, aggressive and partly very personal. I think that's the style that people reject. And to the red-blue-pink coalition: I can only say that style also rejected the Steirers on Sunday. These three parties have lost in total, and the Styrian People's Party and our mayors have been significantly strengthened – I congratulate them for their election success! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What is he talking about?]] We should all put this out of dispute and work together for the security of Austrians, because I believe that – I assume – the goal is that we need a strong Austrian federal army. Our challenge and task is to put it in such a way that we are prepared for the current and future tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Army has many tasks, which have already been clearly stated, and one of these tasks is quite clearly the military national defence, which is also constitutionally defined. The Minister for Defence has also made it clear that this core task must continue. I already call on the opposition to stop this artificially raised discussion, because it has been clearly said and it remains: Military state defense remains a core task of the federal army! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: It was said exactly the opposite in the press conference, you know that very well!]] But what is important – and therefore I support the discussion process initiated by the Federal Minister: We also need to prepare ourselves accordingly for new threats and challenges. We have just experienced a pandemic, and the Austrian federal army is in operation in both the division of the presence and the militia. There is a danger of blackout, there are storms and disasters, there are threats in cyberspace: That's where we have to go. I think it is almost our duty that we should also divert resources and impact into these areas so that we can handle these tasks. The General Staff is responsible for carrying out these assessments so that we can also work out the most likely scenarios as possible. And yes, there needs to be a change of direction, an attempt to align the Austrian federal army in a different direction. It takes a change in the structure, in the use of personnel, in specialization, of course also in the device, so that we can meet these challenges. I would also like to say once again, as an interlocutor: It is – and Mrs. Federal Minister has done this clearly – an initial discussion process, in which there will still be many discussions – in the General Staff, in the leadership, in politics, also with the staff of the Austrian Federal Army – and in the end, I am convinced that we will come to a good solution. [[Abg. Matznetter:... yes, better than the woman Tanner!]] The military defense remains, I have already said. The Federal Minister also made it clear: The garrisons are still in existence. Please do not produce artificial hysteria in the regions outside! The Garnison cities remain, there are only site optimizations. The Federal Minister referred to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Hopefully the cities stay...!]] No employees are, of course, being terminated, but what it needs, and that was also addressed: We now have age-related retirement due to the age structure of the staff. This is also the opportunity to relocate, bring new employees to areas where there are new threats; there we need specialists, other professionals, for example – once again – to the cyberspace. Of course – and this discussion should not always be put to the fore – and it has been said that there will continue to be heavy equipment – we need it too – and there will continue to be tank artillery. The Federal Minister has already completed the procurement of the Pandur-Radpanzers. It needs to be expanded in the cyber area, in the ABC area, in the pioneer field. These are also areas where the threat situations are very likely to occur. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: The Pandur tanks are...!]] Of course, the Austrian federal army will continue to fulfill the orders in Germany and abroad. Now I've been saying one thing to discuss in the last few days: It is important to the Austrians that they are guaranteed for their safety. They rely on the Austrian federal army, and the deployment will be guaranteed in the future. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's not a good speech!]] [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: Insecurity Party ÖVP!]] The second, the internal discussion, which, however, is less interested in the Austrian or the Austrian, is the question: How do we align the structure, the command structures of the federal army? This is an internal discussion, and so is it – and not in all public. It is clear, however, that the objective is to make the management of regional, flexible and faster, and I think that the approaches to strengthen territorial responsibility in the military commanders are good, and we have always supported and continue to support this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Cashier:... adapted to the budget!]] One essential point, of course, is the militia. This approach paper provides for a clear strengthening of the use of the militia. We have also very clearly anchored the production of the constitutional state in the government programme; that is to say, the establishment of the militia in the future, the provision of personnel and equipment and also the guarantee of exercise. In conclusion, I should like to sum up: The aim is to ensure together that the Austrian Federal Army is prepared for the current and future challenges. We are at the beginning of a discussion process, and all of us, I believe, from the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Wehrsprechers, from Parliament to the staff, should this as a goal one that we need a strong Austrian federal army. [[Abg. Matznetter: Why do you have... Minister...!]] We also have this commitment in the government programme, and we have secured the budget decided on a few weeks ago for the first time. Ministers Klug and Darabos – you have forgotten them before; Klug, Darabos, the unwarranted Minister of Defense, has put the federal army in a situation that is now to be countered with a 10 percent higher budget. [[Call the SPÖ:Hello!]] I ask everyone – we have the opportunity to return to the matter in the afternoon at the National Security Council! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Do not charge the party-political profiling to the federal army, the soldiers! Let us work together for a strong German army and for the security of the Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7038	For business treatment: Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7064	Since for the time being the situation has arisen that other Members of the ÖVP Parliamentary Club have been held by representatives of other Members who are either not in the house or are unpunished – in the budget debate to Mr Klubobmann Kickl, who was apologised, Mr Hammer has now said that Mrs Krisper is not in the house – I would like to remind you that in the presidential debate we have agreed that we are here in the House trying to comply with the distance rules, which, among other things, means that Members are present at the gallery and also in the attic, or at the bases of the parliamentary clubs. To that end, Mr President, I would ask you to repeat this once again so that Mr Hammer, too, can expressly agree that Members are very likely to be here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7102	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7126	Mr President. High house! For one thing, it is a difference whether one is apologised or not; but yes, it is true that the Members of this House are in part also in the roof foyer and in other rooms. But now it's about something completely different: Mrs Krisper did not apologize to the judge for her misbehaviour. That's what it's all about! We ask for this apologies, and this is very timely, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7170	I can say to the Rules of Procedure that we will be taking this morning or in the next presidency – including for our meeting – once again. It is, of course, because of this system of seats, as it is today, so that not all Members of the National Council are here in plenary, but are on the gallery, in the attic, or also in the club rooms at the base. I ask everyone to respect this too! Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7205	Mr President. My women Federal ministers! I would like to say in the case of the lady responsible for the defence of the state, Mrs Nochbundesminister. If today's declaration should have been a blow to liberation, I must let you down: It was the next pipe recorder you produced in front of the public in connection with the Austrian federal army. And if the ÖVP is big in here and apologizing, I say it would actually be appropriate for you to apologize to the Austrian Federal Army for what you have done in recent weeks. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Double farmer.]] I would like to put in place one of yours, one of the stables of the Austrian People's Party – then perhaps you believe it better – today at the beginning. He is sitting back there in the second row, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, who in 2013 was Clubobmann of the Austrian People's Party, Clubobmann of a government group – and now please listen well! – and said quite something reasonable in connection with the Austrian federal army. I quote: “The German army and thus the security of the people are not the private research laboratory for the mistaken ideas of a Minister of Defence”. It was then, admittedly, directed against one of the two gentlemen Darabos or Clug – it's meated, you don't have to keep it apart, they were both blinders – but it was striking and correct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] And when it was then striking and correct - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7241	I would ask you not to use the word blinder and express yourself in a different form. It's deplorable to a person.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7262	So I think it is a military expression which is quite appropriate in this debate, Mr President. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] If it has been striking and correct at the time, then it is much more touching now and then it is much more right now to use these words against you, Mrs Minister of Defense. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello?! Are you all right?- Oh, my God!]] I mean, crazy, that's an excellent vocabulary, so to speak, it's a hit. Irrwitzig – this is a really point-specific name for the kahlschlag, which you want to pass from the ÖVP, of course with the flank protection of the Greens, who are always there when it comes to the Austrian security, under the code name "Ker 2020". What you are currently working out is a major attack on the Austrian federal army and not a small communication laptop, as you would like to make us believe. Madam Minister of Defense, today you have adjusted a little in color. You have probably already noticed that your staging in earth-colored ensembles can't be fooled by one, namely that you are in fact acting like a political demolition of the Austrian People's Party against the Austrian Federal Army and thus against the military national defense. [[Abg. Steinacker: Well, please...!]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Locking, breaking, dismantling, crushing, selling, demoralizing, ruining – this is the truth behind your reform project. Now you can row back as you want – and so you understand –: The cow's out of the barn, Mrs. Defence Minister! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The greatest enemy of the Austrian federal army is currently not beyond our national borders, but at the head of the chain of command of its own ministry. There is the largest enemy of the Austrian federal army! And what will come out in the end? – I almost want to say a minimundus army; not a talk about: at the height of time, but you want to create an international salmon number, a hybrid – I want to say – from fire department and technical assistance. And if the ÖVP needs that, then our soldiers can also take a little piste step, simply take shelves, kick packerl; yes, harvest helpers may also go when the peasantry registers certain desires. [[Abg. Hey, hello!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP:Hello!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: What ‘hello’? That's the truth!]] [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] This is the gratitude of the ÖVP to the Austrian federal army, which has always been there for this Republic when it has gone hard; I am thinking of the migration crisis of 2015/16 and the current use of Corona. I also find it somewhat symptomatic and, in a sense, pitiful that the competent minister in her statement does not even express a word of thanks to the active and former forces of the Austrian federal army! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Did she say!]] I'll do this in their place. Instead of transporting the federal army, degradate it to stay in the Jargon. Now, of course, you're wondering: What has this federal army done so wrong, not to say, what has broken the Austrian federal army, that it has fallen into displeasure like that? - Nothing. Nothing! The wind or the winds – could be said – blow from a completely different direction in this context. What you are doing, Mrs. Defence Minister, is to implement the clear turquoise battle mission of the Austrian Chancellor. The head of government in Austria, Federal Chancellor Kurz, is one who, together with his adorational association, has no positive reference to the Austrian Federal Army, at least not as far as the military component and the state defense is concerned. He is one who has no understanding of the indispensable role of the federal army within the framework of the Constitution for the preservation of security, freedom, neutrality and our sovereignty, and he is also one who shows zero sense of responsibility beyond what – even if he does not believe it – ends up in the desired phase of his political power. From the point of view of this turquoise bubble, the German army, ladies and gentlemen, has some fundamental mistakes: First: It costs something and it's always annoying. Secondly, It's not hip enough; too little cyber and so on. And third, and above all: It is not coloured into the last fiber turquoise or black, as can be seen from the parade example of the Ministry of the Interior. Then the circle closes again. Many have already asked themselves: Please, how for heaven did this woman Tanner from Lower Austria become the Minister of Defense? – Due to a special affinity to the federal army, you have not noticed; it is something else that characterizes you. I would like to say that it is the Kadaver obedience, which is immanent of the ÖVP Lower Austria, which leads you to ruin without shame from the head of the federal army. [[Mr Baumgartner and Mr Hörl.]] There you were the best qualified and so sit where you sit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the end there is a small, cheap, EU-compatible, and above all completely black and turquoise-colored German army. – This is the vision you are working on! I say this with this passion because I have experienced it myself and because we have resisted this madness in the coalition. It was also the commission of the same Federal Chancellor to Minister of Defense Kunasek to proceed from the head of the army against the German army. But there he bit on granite, the Federal Chancellor. Now there is no more resistance and now this attempt will be repeated with you as the commander of this party political order. I just call it an experience because it's so symptomatic: While we have fought for airspace surveillance to take place in Austria in such a way that it also deserves this name, the recommendation of the Federal Chancellor and his adorational association was that it should be abandoned on aircraft and made best use of drones. It would have been best if we had bought these things from Saturn. – This is the access of the Austrian People’s Party, the new People’s Party, to the state defense, and that is a shame! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one more thing: The dangers and threats have not decreased for Austria; quite the contrary, they have become more complex and complex. The General Staff will probably have already declined you several times to the last detail. If you tell you something else, you can take it with you if you step back. It is true that the world is not only made up of cyber attacks, but there are also migration crises that you have thought impossible until a short time ago, then there are conflicts in our neighborhood. Can you give me the guarantee that all our neighbouring countries, which are well equipped for military purposes, will remain politically stable in the near future? Can you take over the guarantee? What are you saying about terrorist threats that are not just happening in the cyberspace? We know that terrorists also use conventional heavy equipment. We must be able to resist it accordingly. You can't just wipe it out. All the other countries around us – just take Switzerland – are so intelligent to react to it and build up on arms and manpower. That's what I call responsible defence policy! That's the opposite of what you're doing here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The money, Mrs. Minister, can't be: billions to Brussels for the club With the European Union, hundreds of millions when Erdoğan is back at the door and is holding hands, millions of people are in favour of integration policy in this country, whose successful fruits we can experience every day in Vienna, in the strikes of the Turks against the Kurds, hundreds of millions for Lufthansa. - So, please, it can't be the money. What prevents this government from providing the Federal Government with reasonable equipment? Our sons have to get in there, these are jobs in Austria that are secured, these are really important economic factors for the region, that is a piece of identity, and it is above all the last and most effective guarantee for our security – but for that you have no money. It's a pity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With all the negatives, actually, only one comfort remains, namely the finding that the Austrian federal army has already survived many difficult phases. It will also survive your political era, Mrs. Minister of Defense. The Austrian federal army will still exist if this government has long been a member of the past. – In this sense: Long live the Austrian Federal Heir!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7435	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7470	Mr President. Dear women ministers, Mr Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the devices! Mr Kickl, I would like to start by saying that we are very much used to you. We know that you do not speak to the members of this House or the ministers in detail, but the sexist remark to the outfits of the ministers, who have already fallen again today, is absolutely displaced. I should like to reject this clearly. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] Yes, it can be discussed in detail whether the communication of Minister Tanner on the question of the restructuring or reform of the Federal Government was particularly happy. It has given rise to irritations, but irritations are basically positive because they stimulate the debate, and we now have this debate. [[Deputies Belakovich and Kickl: Oh so!]] My concern is only if I listen to the debate here, the speeches of the opposition, and also read what is stated in the newspapers, that the child should be poured out with the bath, and that certainly can't be it. That our federal army with its current orientation is not quite – and that is more likely to be a bit euphemistic – in the 21st century. Arrived in the century, we may reach agreement in the analysis; I would hope that we will also agree here that the threat scenarios have changed considerably over the past 75 years. But I just heard from Klubobmann Kickl that he thinks cyber is just a hip thing. – No, it is quite real attacks that led the war in the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes, but the world is not just cyber!]] So what will we have to do? – Of course, we need an analysis of the threat scenarios before which we stand. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: They don't exist! There's no such thing as that right now!]] They have changed fundamentally. We are now in a global pandemic, this too is such a threat scenario. The climate crisis is a threat scenario, associated with massive increases in extreme weather phenomena, storms, natural disasters. That's where the federal army has a very central role. Of course, terrorism is also central to attacks on the computer systems and attempts to influence state actors, democratic processes in other countries, issues that will concern us and are the real threat scenarios. [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: But this is not the basis of the reform!]] But it is also clear that the war scenario that we have to go up with tanks or the like on our territory is absolutely unlikely. I hope there is agreement on this too. Austria is in the middle of Europe, in the heart of the European peace project; and if Mr Kickl fears that the NATO countries we are surrounded by will attack us, I think that this is quite a humbug, I am sorry. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hofer: Where is Ukraine? Is it so far away?]] This has not been a scenario in the central security documents of the Republic for 20 years, which is likely in any way, and I therefore also believe that we are doing well to align the federal army in a different direction. For each of these threat scenarios – whether pandemic, terror, natural disasters or cyber-attacks – a comprehensive, general-state strategy for maintaining our infrastructures, for saving human lives is needed. This, of course, concerns all the institutions that are available to us and, accordingly, it also needs a comprehensive plan. We're in a pandemic now. There, of course, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health have a central role, but there are also tasks that the Federal Government has taken over, and we have seen, in recent months, that the handling of such a crisis scenario works quite well. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Based on the analysis of the threat scenarios, it is necessary to develop which tasks the federal army can and should take on, for example, building bridges at floodwaters. Of course, the defence of cyber-attacks is also a very central issue. We agreed in the government programme on a reform of national defence and a strengthening of crisis and disaster protection. However, this does not, of course, include a departure from the constitutionally established national defence, as has been claimed by some in recent days. [[Call the SPÖ:... Federal President!]] In the current debate, the voices of the persistent forces are quite loud, but I think we should finally be more courageous and go towards the future, make the German army fit for the future. [[Abg. Hofer: Musty yes, negligent no!]] This is the agreement in the government programme. I would also like to say at this point that the Federal Army is not a self-evident for the people employed there. I believe that it is also good to look at the leadership structures and the different levels in the hierarchy, what it actually needs and what perhaps no longer corresponds to the time and is not necessary. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Eßl.]] It can't change anything!, that's the most convenient of all demands, but it's also the shortsighted one. That the Freedom Party in its political stance is basically turned back, that is nothing new, the turquoise-green government goes towards the future in these matters. [[Abg. Kassinger: The Greens are forward-looking, we are back in the drawer!]] [[Abg. Kickl: If you want to change something, we'll change the budget!]] In conclusion, I would like to say: Only courage, Mrs Minister, the path we have agreed on in the government programme is the right one! Let's lead our federal army into the 21st century. 19th century! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7637	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7658	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Yes, I am now quite frankly a bit unspeakable, especially as regards the speeches of the PPE and the Greens' Club. [[Abg. Lightness: Right!]] Yeah, it needs reforms. We are the first to be ready for discussion, and we are happy to discuss how we will be able to discuss the German army in the 21st century. ==References== There are a lot of measures to be taken, and there must be no taboo in the discussions. But if we start a reform, then the first thing that needs to be done is a risk analysis. Mr Hammer and Mrs Klubobfrau have talked about what the possible scenarios are, what the risks we have to prepare for. But do you know how you did that? – Mrs Klubobfrau said it literally: We need to see what's happened in the last 20 years! – You’ve looked at what’s happened over the past 20 years, and that’s your risk analysis instead of looking at what could happen over the next 20 years. [[Abg. Maurer: No! For 20 years now, it's been inside that it's no longer...!]] Risk analysis means looking at what will happen in the future, and nothing else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Mrs. Klubobfrau, that's the mistake: that this hasn't happened. It didn't happen, it didn't happen in the ministry! It was commissioned by the Chief of General Staff, but it has not yet happened – no risk analysis as a basis for this reform. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Imagine, with the same approach, a vision: What has happened over the last 20 years, this is now happening in the next 20 years!, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, a year ago, would have become a minister and implemented a reform! What would have happened if a pandemic had come? - She came. The German army would have been unable to act in this situation because the German army would have reduced all the competences it needed. That's exactly what's happening now. That is exactly what the Federal Minister now intends to see, not in the future, but in the past and in the past, to draw some conclusions that have nothing to do with the future. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Bösch.]] It would be very easy to carry out a reform because many things have already been mentioned. This risk analysis was needed. The second thing you need is a state-of-the-art analysis. It is not available to Parliament in the Ministry of Defence, because, at the moment when we want to discuss the state of affairs, no matter which minister – whether this was Minister Kunasek before or even now the Minister – is saying: No, we would rather not talk about it, because the states in the federal army are so disastrous that politics could not account for it! – It is not discussed, and the state report on the federal army is still not accessible under closure and to Parliament. The third thing that needs to be done is this report from your predecessor – you all know him, including you, Mrs. Federal Minister, – in which it is precisely mentioned what measures should be taken, how much would it cost, how much to deal with it and how to develop the German army from it. [[Keeping up to date the report entitled ‘OUR HEER 2030’]] However, the government has considered something else and said: Well, here we make a fog grenade, now Sebastian is briefly invited to the investigation committee and that's why we need a distraction maneuver! – One has gone out with an unbridled paper on the basis of the “VISION COUNTRY REPRESENTATION 2020”, which I have already shown you before and in which nothing is written like a better student essay, and has said: Fog grenade, dumb, let's blow the federal army! The only thing that the Federal Minister and the ÖVP have not considered is that fog grenades are not suitable for explosion. I can guarantee you one thing: The people you will meet in the near future are those who are the heart of the Austrian federal army and a further development of the Austrian federal government; they know that you don't sprung with nebula grenades, but that you have to throw a real grenade in the explosion, and the Federal Government unfortunately lacks, or thank God, you have to say honestly, the mumm. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Ries.]] I would like to focus very briefly on the performance of the last weeks: You yourself have mentioned that this was not necessarily positive and that, I believe, it has caused irritation. In my opinion, what has caused much more irritation is how you answered the questions, both in the Ö1 “Mitagsjournal” on Saturday and in the “ZIB 2”. On the question of how you all this, namely your reforms, the abolition of the military state defense – and nothing else was said in this first conversation; there you were then shaken back –, if you see constitutionally, you said: Well, I'm just working on the government program! – I can tell you one thing, Mrs. Minister: The Constitution is above your government programme, and this is important and you must also pay attention to it as a minister. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] To conclude: We are at any time willing to take up a reform of the Austrian federal government, a sustainable reform in which we really take the risk analysis as a basis and discuss how the risk chances are in the future and how we can get the most out of it. Unfortunately, you don't. You don't care about that either, because the show interests you more. It interests you the show you make around the state defense, and not what would lead to a change on a sustainable basis. The ÖVP was once a security party. I can still remember that in the 1990s, in some cases, you even put this up in election campaigns. This ÖVP, which we now have, this Turkish ÖVP, is quite, far from being a security party. The only thing you are is an insecurity party with an insecurity minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7753	Member of the Ovenauer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7775	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! If you listen to the speeches, the debates of the last weeks, starting with the Ibiza Investigation Committee up to this day, and if you look at that, then you have to realize that a red thread of unwarranted word messages, which have lowered a low point, draws from Krisper to Kickl to Light Peace and Laimer. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you: Return to the subject matter, because such discussions are damaging the image we are giving, and do nothing good to the discussion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: It hurts if you go out with unworked things and do what else!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we are talking about military national defence, because that has something positive. I have seen that all the political groups here in the House are behind the military national defence, and this broad support is something great. Mrs. Tanner has initiated a discussion process, a discussion process that is important because the German army comes from the middle of the population and there also needs support for its own task, for the military defence of the country, because, in spite of some views, the world is unfortunately not a peaceful, all pacifist desire. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what Mrs Maurer said before!]] We have the following questions to discuss on the basis of an analysis of the threat scenarios: What can, what must military national defense do? What does she need to be able to do? What skills, what equipment, what mechanization does the army need? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must also have adapted answers to modern threat scenarios. There you have to start from the most likely use variants and also take into account new threat images. A cyber attack that causes a blackout seems quite realistic and no less threatening. The question remains, however, what a modern equipment must look like to be prepared against hybrid threats in order to be against hybrid aggressions. When you consider that it can be already that terrorists or other aggressors with military equipment and perhaps even tanks occur, you also have to take this into account and plan it. This requires modern arms associations to ensure the same modern state defense and to be able to resist it with adequate means, ladies and gentlemen. We need a further development of Austrian defence policy within the framework of our Austrian realities and possibilities. Of course, the Austrian federal army must have the main objective of military defence. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the performance of our federal army is consistently high thanks to the commitment of our soldiers. I'll call you all: Let us take advantage of the opportunity of this discussion and let us make nails with our heads! I see good opportunities, for example, the right to serve in the 21st century. By the end of the 20th century, to attract the occupation of the soldier, for example, by providing the opportunity to complete civil training in addition to military training. This would make it easier for these people to get into and out of civil life – they could perhaps also bring military experience there – or allow them to move into another division of the Federal Service. The start of this discussion process may not have been quite ideal, but one must definitely hold: Our Minister of Defense shows courage to initiate and conduct such a difficult discussion. The answer to the question: military defence – yes or no? – can only be: Yes, military state defense is important and must remain a core competence of our federal army. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we confess to the Austrian federal army and, of course, to the need for military defence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7836	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7858	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We know: According to the Federal Constitution, Austria is advocating “for comprehensive national defence, ” and this includes, among other things, the “protection of constitutional institutions and their ability to act”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But how should the Federal Government fulfill this task when equipment and buildings are partly in a catastrophic state? The urgent need for renovations can also be seen at the Hesse-Kaserne in my hometown of Wels. For example, the hall in which the tanks of the last battle tank battalion stand is in an extremely bad condition. When the necessary building of the hall is started, is in the stars. In any case, there is no budget for this. But it is not always the big investments that make the operation difficult, it often even lacks small things. So far it was not possible to buy a lawn mower to mower the terrain of the Hesse-Kaserne. – Working like that is really hard, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP:... Questions for the SPÖ! Lawn mower!]] The “protection of constitutional institutions and their ability to act” also includes protection against blackouts. According to the security policy preview, experts expect such a blackout over the next five years. But how good is Austria and, in particular, the Federal Army prepared for a possible blackout? Could the federal army support the countries and communities in order to maintain water supply? Do the individual barracks generators have to ensure an emergency operation? If this does not exist, how should the population be supported in an emergency? Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government is doing excellent work, especially in view of the conditions. The barracks are an important part of the federal army, they are often indispensable to the regions, for many reasons: They are employers, they are apprentices and they are a crucial economic factor. The more honesty and clarity are needed in dealing with each other. Ms. Minister, location guarantees are from your side and were urgently necessary. This uncertainty needs to be clarified, for what happens to well-trained soldiers when barracks should be closed? Ladies and gentlemen! The crisis has also shown: The population can rely on the federal army. – The federal army must also be able to rely on the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, reforms must be in line with the Constitution and respect for neutrality. Whoever confesses to the federal army must also ensure funding. There's no safety for nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7909	Member of the Stögmüller has been reported to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7931	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent days, there has been a great deal of talk about our federal army and the future of the Federal Army. I would like to have such a broad and great debate on this, which is really great, but it can only be welcomed. In the government programme, we have agreed on a number of forward-looking points, which we also want to implement, which we finally want to bring into line with what we want to do. I admit that communication, as she did – as the Minister said – was not necessarily optimal. The restructuring presented at first glance also looks profound, but we need to discuss it. I think this is urgently necessary, and I am pleased that we are discussing it. This, of course, has hit great waves at first. Now we need to look at how we put this together and then implement it step by step, so that we do not insist on the state of the federal army, but continue and finally implement important points. Yes, it needs joint talks. For this it is also necessary that the General Staff, the Commanders and the entire team are on board, because the restructuring of the Federal Army must take place in broad agreement – also here in Parliament, with all the spokesmen. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] It has to be well coordinated, also with regard to the current security policy risk assessment, because there are major challenges that we need a well-equipped federal army, whether it be cyberattacks, climate change-related natural disasters or blackouts. For this we also need an increase in the resistance of the barracks and the entire federal army. Since Covid-19, we know that a pandemic is also a real threat that demands the highest level of the entire state and all citizens. A federal army needs to be prepared for a corresponding challenge. In recent months, the Federal Army has demonstrated its commitment to the protection of all the people who live here in Austria. – Thank you from our side all soldiers for their contribution, for their help! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] For me, it is clear that the military state defense continues to be the traditional task of the Austrian federal army. This also provides for Article 79 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In addition – and this is important – the following tasks are also foreseen: maintaining internal security, peace and order, as well as disaster protection. But it is also indisputable that there is a reduced risk of a direct military attack on Austria, on our conviction. This is certainly also because Austria is in the middle of a united Europe. It is therefore necessary to focus the federal army on the current danger images. In my opinion, we have been there for decades; we must finally take important steps there. On the one hand, international peace efforts are concerned, and they also contribute to the stabilisation of the Western Balkans, Eastern Europe, the Middle East or Africa. It concerns disaster protection and the emerging threats such as cyberattacks, blackouts or a pandemic. We need real answers to the current threats. We Greens want to make the German army sustainable, cost-effective, modern and operational. To this end, I must also say honestly that there is a need for an interplay of all state forces to implement a sustainable structure in the German army. Clearly, this will not be the case for all people, because, in addition to the increased use of synergies, it also needs a reduction in staff costs, especially in the ministry, in favour of the team outside, which is on-site for the German army. It needs a corresponding efficiency increase in the federal army, but not at the expense of the federal army's ability to act. Summary: We want to know the tasks of the army with regard to the comprehensive defence of Austrian neutrality, taking into account the modern challenges. However, there will be no aversion to the forces' established functions, but a new focus on the implementation of the tasks in line with the new challenges that the German army must face. We will be committed to this, and we will see that we are also implementing our government programme step by step – as the Minister has said: with courage and confidence. I think we're happy to be there. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e7998	Member of the Bösch European Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8019	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Stögmüller, you should not make the ÖVP so unnecessarily and cheerfully the wall. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] Dear Greens, the Ibiza video for you has already been filmed; it lies over there in the drawer and waits only for the right time. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: No one is so stupid with us!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who you have taken the floor before me, you have assembled that we should finally return to an objective debate. – That is exactly what we are doing now, and that is exactly what has resulted from our actions on the part of the opposition parties in order to return to reality. I can remind you of what happened at the beginning of last week: The Minister has sent parts of her cabinet to the press and has it explained that the state defense is now no longer a priority of the Austrian federal army. We had to draw your attention, Mrs Minister, to the fact that this is bordering on a constitutional breach. They turned to the public and said that there would be no barracks closed – and you had to correct that a few days later and say: Of course, barracks are closed, only no garrisons! – You have had a good excuse for this again, but you know, Mrs. Minister, this procedure – you have managed to do it yourself – was simply objectionable. That was just disgusting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] This has called on those forces that seriously mean the security policy of this Republic, and this includes our liberals. But it is not only the evil opposition parties, Mrs Minister, no, it is also the sub-official society, the group of professional officers, the officer society and other associations who do so. These groups have stood up with us – with the liberals, with the NEOS, with the SPÖ – and have called: Enough is enough! And here's enough real enough. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make a motion for a resolution on behalf of Mr Laimer, Mr Bösch and Mr Hoyos: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this request is all the more important when it is a continuation of the request that we have decided on a cross-party basis here in the National Council at the end of 2015 and that at the time has declared that we are obliged to provide the necessary financial resources to the Austrian federal army so that it can fulfil its tasks – and that is now threatened by your process. You will not – I have said it before – be the main responsibility for this; I assume that this is your party. The area where you have worked so far is a remote area of the military; So they do not have a deep background in these areas, which would be a reason for acting on its own initiative here. They are therefore dependent on a political mandate from your Federal Chancellor, and this political mission, according to the critical public, is: You have to adjust the Austrian federal army to the budget deficit. You have the Austrian federal army to adjust to the budget deficit, cost it what it wants! That's what you do. That's your turquoise party assignment. You're a party soldier, you're doing it, you're going through it. – Well, we take note of this, but you will encounter bitter resistance from us. Mrs. Minister, you're talking about the threat scenarios. You're going through the whole thing with your cabinet and you're on it: Hold, what's the most cost? – stupid, that's the state defense, these iron cloisters driving around there! But that's impractical – how do we get rid of them? [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: As impractical as...!]] We will only get rid of them if we give up this national defence; if we bend the Constitution a little, stretch it a little, stretch it a little bit, then we don't need it anymore! We suppress the scenario that there may be difficulties at our borders that require a robust use of forces. We simply banish – a colleague has already said – what happened in 1991. We simply push out what happened at our borders in 2015. We also remove the situation in Europe when we look at Dijon, to Paris, to Stuttgart. Stuttgart, that's fucking close – damn close! We should already consider how the state is preparing itself to face all these threats by military means. That would be the task of the Austrian federal army, but you ignore it. This is a violation of the policy of the EIA, and we will not stop showing it. You also said you wanted to implement the government programme. – That’s very glorious, that’s wonderful! Turn on what you have agreed with, whatever coalition partner, only: That can't be above the Constitution! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You cannot put your government programme through the constitution and ignore what security policy for the Austrian people and security policy for our Republic need. You have also explained here, for example, that you want to develop protection and aid zone models. – That’s all wonderful, we already agreed with you in connection with our security islands at the time, the cracking point would only be the financing of all these concepts. You said you wanted to strengthen the militia – wonderful, you have us on your side! – it only succeeds if you introduce mandatory militias, but you can't get through them. With regard to premiums paid by soldiers to make a longer commitment, we already have experience – check out your place of business! We have experiences: We have had the experience with this volunteer military model for ten years that it is not enough to fill up and make use of the Miliz human – and that it can only be used on a conditional basis, we have seen within the framework of the pandemic. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to advise you on the following: Return to the path of constitutional governance, return to a democratic culture! Discuss with the public, with our representatives, also with the press, so that you also get answers to questions you ask, and so that you can follow your policy! Unfortunately, we now have God to recognize that the Turkish party is now on its way to finally disassembly the Federal Army, and I can only say to you once again: If you lead this in the shield, you will encounter bitter resistance from us liberals! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8191	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8216	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, at the heart of the matter: Was it really worth what you staged there last week? – I say “staged” and not employed, because no matter how you view it, it always crystallizes two variants. Variant one is: They have been commissioned to throw a median nebula grenade to distract them from the Ibiza Investigation Committee, in order to distract them from being invited by the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance there. This is an investigative committee that reveals daily how the ÖVP is ensnared into a policy of bought laws in which donors apparently order laws, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They should be diverted from a committee of inquiry, which provides for almost every day new facts, such as the fact that the President of the National Council and Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry is apparently caught. [[Abg. Hanger: Are you sure?]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] That's what you wanted to distract, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Weidinger: Unheard of!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] Mrs. Minister, if variant was one of the reasons why you did this, then your approach as Minister of Defense is deeply inconvenient. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Variant two would be, you actually want to make a military reform and choose the following procedure: You choose the procedure that you place an unbridled concept, which is fed with little expertise, in a background discussion in which you do not participate yourself. – This also shows the importance you attach to this matter. They choose the procedure not to inform the President of the Federal Republic of Germany as commander-in-chief. They choose the procedure to make a military reform and not to inform Parliament about it. They choose the procedure to make a military reform and not to inform the coalition partner – but this is probably the case if one has heard the speeches by colleague Maurer and colleagues Stögmüller. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] They choose the procedure not to inform the heads of state. Yes, Mrs. Minister, you propose to reduce the military state defense in such a way that it no longer conforms to the Constitution. You don't know if you're closing barracks or garrisons. You change your mind four times from Wednesday to Saturday. – This is insecure, ladies and gentlemen, and this is unworthy of a Minister of Defence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So if variant two applies, you have acted deeply unscrupulously as Minister of Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously enough in the ÖVP to be a Federal Minister and come from Lower Austria to become a Minister – but it is not enough to be a Minister, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ries.]] As an opposition politician, I could now wish for many so grand “ZIB 2” performances of you as a citizen, I wish myself a minister who conducts the resort serially and properly, and you have proved last week that you are not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8340	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8361	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Yes, there is the saying: The situation is serious, but not hopeless! Unfortunately there is also the Austrian variant of God: The situation is hopeless, but not serious! – Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, I thought so when I finally heard about your plans going to what you were planning with the German army. At the beginning of this period of government, when I read in the newspaper that you have learned the degrees of service externally, I actually hoped you might need a little bit more to get familiar with the military things before you really do the first ÖVP attacks on the federal army. Unfortunately, it went faster than we feared. Yes, Mrs. Federal Minister, you are disassembling the army, and that 29 years after the crisis of the crisis, five years after the refugee crisis, and in the midst of times when every day there is a danger of being confronted with Islamist terror. Mrs Bundesminister, this is totally unresponsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As always, when the ÖVP comes and the army is crumbling, of course the fig leaf Miliz comes. I am a military soldier myself, and it would be important to me that the militia is finally properly cared for so that it can make the efforts it is supposed to make. If you, Mrs. Federal Minister, but now from a new miracle force On behalf of Miliz, which is supposed to be the egg-legging wool milk sow, which is supposed to dominate cybercrime, to ensure disaster protection and to carry out border protection, I wonder how you really want to achieve it – and above all, I also want to know which signal you want to send. Mrs. Federal Minister, if you could better recognize yourself in the military, then you would know that it is precisely the military soldiers who are active in the voluntary fire brigades in the small communities every day and are already doing what you expect from them again in a double charge. And cybersecurity: Mrs Bundesminister, don't be angry with me, that's nothing that can be kept a little bit by the way, so easy on a small flame, but it has to be carried out all the time, and that's not only with the militia! When you come to collect a few plus points, and say: Well, but the militia is now better equipped!, then that's the next shame – and I can't hear it anymore. I myself am at the militia long enough to know that cuts in the force always mean that material is also shortened in the militia. I'm long enough to tell you how often a steel helmet changes the owner how often it is used; it's three, four, five times occupied, and it's at the battle vests. – Mrs Federal Minister, don’t be angry with me, but nobody believes you! One thing about the last use of militia, which you have also celebrated PR-moderately: Yes, he was good to see how busy we are. But why did it take so long for the operation to take? – Because we didn’t know how to get to the site because we didn’t have any vehicles because we didn’t know how to fill up the militia workers. [[Interference of Federal Minister Tanner.]] Mrs Bundesminister, this is exactly where you want to start now: You want to thinn the military, you want to get rid of the professional soldiers, you want to, but you have forgotten that it was exactly the professional soldiers who filled up the military quotas because you just didn't get them done and because you couldn't equip them either. Mrs. Federal Minister, if you reduce the German army, if you thin off the professional soldiers, you will automatically reduce the militia and your plan will not go up. Another thing, because the speaking time is already coming to an end: autarchic barracks. – Mrs. Federal Minister, did you even know what you said? Autarke barracks, with central kitchens: Ten years ago, we learned how to cook outside in the field, we learned how to care for ourselves in the federal army, precisely because there was once again some funny ÖVP reform, in which everything has been reduced again and again, in which we have been told, we need to improve – and in the end, a heap of debris has been left. Mrs Bundesminister, I am aware of what you want to do: You want to shrunk the federal army, because it's annoying to you, you want to eliminate the comprehensive state defense, you want above all to disband units that – and please listen very briefly! – perhaps even have very good blue staff representatives; they are also first folded and dissolved. You make the Federal Ministry of State Defense a Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs number two, I absolutely right Mr. Klubobmann Kickl. Mrs Bundesminister, if you think it is serious, then do not rely on the situation of your ÖVP PR advisers, but read this paper – perhaps as a step two, after the degrees of service – through that is [[Keeping a document in height]] the second defence risk picture from 2020. There you see where the dangers that come upon us are real, where the challenges of the federal army lie, and there you see where you have to face. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the Austrian Federal Army, I would like to thank you here from the speaker's desk of the Austrian Parliament for looking at the security of Austrian citizens day and night. One of the things from here: We won't let you down!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8448	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8470	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! Mrs. Federal Minister, you have recently been asked in an interview with the “Kurier”, which means for you personally military national defence and what is necessary for that. Your answer was very sober in my eyes – I may quote –: "The military defence is provided for in the Constitution, the laws and the Austrian Security Strategy. This term is also included in the government programme to discuss what is in the Constitution. After you were rehearsed, which means for you personally now really national defense, you added: ‘It is usually only discussed in connection with heavy weapons holes.’ Mrs. Federal Minister, as Minister of State Defense, you should be aware that the military state defense is an integral part of a comprehensive state defense, and therefore contained in our federal constitution. The concept of national defence is certainly not mentioned in the government programme so that we can discuss what is in the Constitution. Our constitution is the basis and framework for work in politics. They are certain that Austria is committed to comprehensive national defence in Article 9a of the Constitutional Law. However, I feel that you should read paragraph 2 more precisely, which says that comprehensive national defence includes the intellectual, the civilian, the military and the economic defence. The plans you have referred to would de facto mean the abolition of military national defence, and this would be a breach of our Austrian constitution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Her predecessor, short-term defense minister, Starlinger, already made an alarm in his term of office and announced that our army needs 17 billion euros in additional budgets so that it can carry out its security policy tasks as well. In view of the circumstances, therefore, our federal army should not be further weakened but strengthened. Mrs. Federal Minister, you mentioned at the outset, you were on the go, you were on the spot at the force, in the troops, in the barracks, you looked at how the team and the local staff are doing, and you found: You can't save on the spot anymore! On the spot, the military has really arrived at the hunger cloth, and no one has the necessary equipment to carry out its tasks. Furthermore, you mentioned that no garrisons are closed. What about garrisons if there's only one barracks? Is this also included in the definition or is it like a decade ago when it came to whether or not some Are Garnison sites being locked? This has not been reflected in your report. It seems that 3,000 jobs should be saved. How can security and sovereignty be guaranteed in the light of these reform plans? The damage you've done to the military since you took office, you can't make up for being a minister of defense in your time of activity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our citizens want to feel secure in their own country in the serious case – they can only do so if the Austrian federal army can actually fulfil its constitutional tasks to protect the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8536	Mr Schnedlitz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8557	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! No one would have thought that in this Republic we would find a minister of defence who is getting worse than Darabos – now we have met a minister. Her job, Mrs Minister, would be to create appropriate framework conditions and set out the main objectives. That you interfere in the details of the implementation, that is not your job, that is not your job, and the military expertise for it you can't have, you don't have and you don't have it either, because now we also know that you don't even understand the difference between garrison and barracks. Ladies and gentlemen! For the details of the implementation and expertise, we have experts in the Austrian Federal Government, down from the General Staff, but you have carried out today that you have not included these experts in your plans and your brains – you have to say almost already. They only informed them afterwards. Mrs. Minister, do you not see for yourself that this path is at least a little technical, as if the cock were weaving with the dog? They always access the experts, the general staff and the Austrian officers when it comes to taking media-active photos. But one thing I say to you very clearly: The officers of the Austrian Federal Hero are not your private hand-length towards the Farmerbunds Next Topmodel or for media productions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this, I'm with the highest good, with the biggest weapon of the federal army: These are our soldiers, these are our soldiers down to the last barracks of Austria! These soldiers have such a strong backbone and such a great attitude that you don't have to motivate daily, which you don't have to motivate daily, which bring this basic setting and this motivation itself. So stop going out and take this motivation day by day! They are expressing themselves to break this very backbone of motivation. We are talking here about those who have sworn and oathd to protect the Republic of Austria and its people and defend it with the weapon in hand. Mrs. Minister, you're taking away these men and women's weapons! That's like sending the fire brigade to a burning house without water, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem is: On the one hand, you stand, on the other side is the Austrian Federal Army with its soldiers. On the one hand, you stand with your military incompetence, on the other hand, the line would be with the expertise you use only with photos. On the one hand On the side is the reality with the Austrian security, on the other hand, we know, you are left. - It can't go on that way. Live the Austrian army! Mrs. Minister, we all met you, it's time for you to go back!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8618	Next item is the report by Mr Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8639	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize: Austria is a republic in which every person can make any career with any background. People who have a rural background to agree to become ministers here is an unfrozenness! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In these hours, ladies and gentlemen, an exercise of pioneer battalion 1 takes place in Villach. At the Ossiacher Lake, an exercise is carried out together with the water rescue and fire brigade. The men and women, soldiers and soldiers, do this with conviction because they pursue their vocations, ensure protection and security. These men and women today also have a smile on their face. Why, my Ladies and gentlemen? – I will do it: Policy has to make decisions, and for 15 years a necessary decision has been put forward. By the way, Mr Laimer, Mr Klug and Mr Darabos, as well as the FPÖ Minister, Kunasek, were there. It is due to the far-sightedness and joy of the Minister of Defense Claudia Tanner that she has made the decision to ensure clarity in Villach and to build a large barracks. – Thank you many times for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Not only the soldiers are satisfied and delighted with this decision, but it is the city of Villach, it is the Carinthian military commander, it is the country Carinthian with the head of state Peter Kaiser who say: A right decision – far-sighted, protection and security!, especially because we remember that military national defense is necessary for us. We all, especially we Carinthia, remember 1991, and we are proud of the men and women who wear uniforms and ensure our safety. A great thank you – this is security policy brand Claudia Tanner! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] With the decision to merge the barracks into a large barracks, ladies and gentlemen, we can also set new economic impulses in the context of urban development in Villach, in our prosperous city. This is exactly the right sign at this hour when it is necessary to create the comeback for Austria. It is therefore also good and right that the Minister of State is taking up issues that need to be addressed in our time: Firstly, a realignment also in the field of protection against pandemics, against cyberattacks. Secondly, the clear commitment and the clear analysis that classical military threat scenarios are in the background. This does not mean that we do not give up heavy weapons, but the Federal Minister puts the protection of the team in the foreground, in the focus and has therefore started the process of buying 30 Pandur tanks. [[Abg. Kassinger: That means very well!]] – Thank you many times, this is security policy brand Claudia Tanner! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] The militia is strengthened and brought up to our requirements in good time. The guided tour is made faster and more flexible. The entire organization is being rebuilt to ensure protection and order, especially in the field of cybersecurity and the defence of ABC attacks, for our people and for all the people who live here. And – very important –: Klaudia Tanner has the clear vision, the federal army, our security device number one, to lead into the middle of society, with the model of aid zones, protective units, where barracks will become on site vital rescue anchors that self-evidently support the population. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear announcement. Change is difficult for some, but there will be those who will remain and lead our home into the future, who make courageous and determined decisions like our Minister of Security Claudia Tanner. – Luckily Austria and the Austrian Federal Army!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8715	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled during the debate. Before we come to the vote, I may ask the club members if we need a part-session break. – That is not the case, then we can proceed to the vote. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Laimer, Mr Bösch, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, and others on 'Protection and aid for the German army'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[10:50:47]] 2. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 722/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1994 VAT Act (242 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8767	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8794	This is really a good idea on and on, but the execution is not enough. The idea is that those companies that are massive due to the covid measures For example, because they have been officially closed, they have now received a promotion. - Great idea, we support that. The implementation is very poor for three reasons: Firstly, it is far too bureaucratic and far too complicated; it leads to the need for all cash systems to be reprogrammed twice by all hosts and so on. This means that all registers have to be reprogrammed twice – always in a very short time. Secondly, there's no cover. This is about the fact that only half of the turnover tax is transferred to the financial office and the rest of the company remains. [[Abg. Hörl:... have to change!]] This means, of course, that large chains that sometimes pay no taxes in Austria, as we all know – at least no profit taxes – like Starbucks, have much more of it than a coffee shop or 10 coffee houses together. [[Abg. Hanger: What about...?]] There is no cover for this promotion, that is, the big ones get the most and the little ones get the least. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] That is the second reason why we think this is bad. The third reason is that a clearly European-law model is used. It is clear from European law that each country has a normal tax rate and may have two smaller, favoured tax rates. What the government and the government parties are now creating is a third, although European law clearly states that there must be only two; that is, it is obviously illegal in Europe. So we do not know whether this regulation works in practice at all – and for this reason we do not think that the implementation of this idea is sufficient. There are simpler variants – we have proposed one ourselves, which will then also be tabled as an amendment. It is the idea simply to make a promotion, namely half the turnover tax, but it covers 50 000 euros per company. This means that in about 1 million euros turnover is then to be paid half the turnover tax. This means that not McDonald’s, Starbucks or others get the most, but it’s covered. I would be very pleased if the government parties were to think and agree to a model that is more unbureaucratic, because there is no need to change the cash registers that have a cover, so that not the big ones get the most, and that is not illegal in Europe, but that provides that it is normal to examine competition law, which is also foreseen in the request. I would be pleased if you took the path of this reasonable solution and not the path you are proposing here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] However, I expressly say that we share the intention, and the amendment that will be tabled will do better because now many groups who were not wrong in doing so, such as accommodation companies and so on, are also inside. We therefore support this extension. We don't understand the extension to e-books because e-books never had a problem. Someone who sold e-books, like Amazon, did earn three times during the covid crisis and had no break-in. We don't understand this part. But it is also positive to mention, and that is the answer to the question: What if this tax advantage, as the government is now going to make, ends up? Normally, this must be passed on to consumers when a turnover tax is reduced. This is not passed on by the regulation in the Government proposal. Of course, the question arises whether this will not be passed on to consumers if the sales tax increases to the normal level, i.e. almost increased. In this regard, there are the following of all parties, I believe – at least by Krainer, Head, Tomaselli – supported motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am very pleased that at least there was an agreement. As I said, Intent: Very good; Performance – unfortunately –: Not enough. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8945	The application has been properly submitted, sufficiently supported, and is under negotiation. Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e8975	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! In the meantime, our society enjoys world openness, where it is possible for many to experience tourist, cultural experiences, experience opportunities for education and encounters in many countries of the world and create prosperity – also through international trade. Yes, even the fight against poverty has gone a long way through the globalisation of the economy. There are many advantages of this world openness of our society, but Covid-19 has also shown us how vulnerable our internationalized society is, because viruses do not know national boundaries. We have already experienced this with Sars and with the pig flu, which has had to experience all of Africa at Ebola; and now at Covid-19: 10 million sufferers and 500,000 deaths worldwide – that is a dramatic language. But there are then again national borders in our world, for example in the way and in the effectiveness of health policy measures. We should and do not want to create competition between countries – who is better and who is less good? – but it is already reassuring for us in Austria if, for example, the Regional Director of the World Health Organization for Europe Hans Kluge notes that Austria has done a very “good job” – literally – in a health policy. This can make us calm and satisfied, although many fates must be associated with it. It was the consistent measures that were put in place that led us to get through this crisis very well in health, but these consistent measures have also left deep traces in the economy. In the world economy, this has been done at a lower percentage, because, of course, emerging countries are not economically developed and could not lose so much; in the euro area, the value is significantly more than 7 percent, and also in Austria, significantly more than 7 percent – these are already dramatic breakdowns. This means that, as in the health and health field, aid was needed urgently and immediately, as was the case in the economic field. This was, of course, a very dramatic measure after the lockdown. First aid measures were necessary, and these were first and foremost necessary to ensure liquidity among companies: through tax and SV support – lightning-like implementation by the Federal Ministry of Finance, Mr. Federal Minister – just as through bridge financing and credit guarantees that were quickly launched, and now also through fixed cost subsidies – all of this to ensure what is most urgent for companies in difficult times to be liquid in order to be able to pay wages and salaries in order to be able to serve suppliers. The first risk of insolvency always arises when holdings are not eligible for payment. You can't shake all of this out of your sleeve, and I think it's done well and it's good on the way. Congratulations on this! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Second point: Of course, it was necessary to prevent immediately what – no na – would otherwise have been necessary in the businesses: to separate from many employees. The short-term work model, which we have created – uniquely in Europe – has secured hundreds of thousands of jobs that would otherwise have been lost; the individual fate of people who would otherwise be in the AMS. Unemployment benefit must be paid. – Second great success in this crisis management! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, it was of course also important to ensure, in addition to the security of employees – who, even if they lose their jobs, of course also have a safety net through unemployment insurance – for entrepreneurs, and especially the smallest, that is, their entrepreneurship, because they do not have social security. Hardening and fixed-cost funds have also helped and continue to help secure their own income from this non-secure population group. – Third success, I mean, in the acute crisis management! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is a question of supporting, stimulating, encouraging and revitalizing economic activity as soon as possible so that businesses can survive so that employees can retain their job and purchasing power is available to keep the whole cycle in motion. Private consumption is supported: With the short-term work scheme, we have received income from people, who in turn go into consumption and thus maintain the economic cycle. A coming wage tax and income tax reduction will do one thing: Buying power is preserved and created by people, which, in turn, will strengthen the economy and thus, at the end of the day, also serve job security. Incentives of investments: In addition to private consumption, which has naturally broken into us during this crisis period, investment has fallen dramatically – no, that is the first thing you can stop in a farm. That is to say, the investment premium that we are going to apply for today will be submitted as a request, and also the degressive depreciation possibility are two very, very essential measures to be able to force the investment activity back. The 1 billion euro municipal package will ensure that the investment activities of the municipalities and cities that are so important to the regional economy in the region will not be lost, but that the municipalities can continue to invest. Our communities are one of the most important job engines in the region – with these billions they can continue to secure it. [[As a surprise to the ÖVP and to Mr Neßler and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] Also very important: The promotion of eco-investment, which we will start and expand, will do the same. And a third thing: Exports have come to an end. There will also be an internationalization campaign to ensure credit insurance for the export industry so that the international economic activity, which unfortunately has also fallen sharply, will start again. And last but not least, in the next few months and years, we will have to do some more to strengthen the equity of companies – with tax reductions and tax benefits. Today, ladies and gentlemen, this is about: There are particularly hard hit sectors of this crisis – that concerns companies in tourism, the leisure industry, the event industry, the cultural, sports, trade, but also trade, crafts, yes, industry will be affected for a while, unfortunately, transport, transport – and for these we are creating special measures to help these sectors in particular. A liability shield for the film industry is already set up. Such a one will also come for the event industry so that entrepreneurs can at all take the risk of going to risk, create events and take the risk of doing so. Aid funds for non-profit organizations, i.e. for associations and associations, for sports and much more, are set up. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are proposing a VAT reduction for food and drink in the gastronomy and in the hotel industry, a VAT reduction for museums, cinemas, concerts, books, newspaper sales, but also for repair services for the commercial sector, to allow for higher yields. They are therefore entitled to retain and retain the amounts made up of this tax reduction in order to increase the profits of these companies and thus increase their security of crisis. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] I should now like to make an amendment which will extend the scope of this VAT reduction, namely to those commercial companies which provide food and drink in the so-called industrial by-products, i.e. meats, bakers and similar industries. Although this was clear in the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance, it is still to be clarified. Nocturnals are also to be included – because of course the hotel industry is also heavily affected and the division of half board, breakfast rooms, and the use of two different sets is of course no longer necessary – as well as e-publications, circuses, exhibitors who are also hard hit by this crisis. All of you will benefit from this VAT reduction, and we will also ensure that no price increases will take place on 1.1., if this temporary reduction ends. I would also like to make this amendment formally: [[Quoted print version removed]] With this amendment, we are significantly expanding the scope of this VAT reduction – a further contribution to the crisis management process and to the aid of those companies that are particularly affected in the most difficult sectors. We thus ensure the existence of these entrepreneurs, but also the jobs of employees who are employed in these sectors and businesses. I ask for your consent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[11:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9249	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9273	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We are pleased: The Federal Minister for Finance has remembered that we have a special meeting today. You couldn't remember the place, but you're here. We're glad you're here. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, it is normally Helmut Brandstätter who brings books for you. I've been thinking about doing this for a little while today. [[Abg. Fireplaces: A laptop can bring him!]] This would have been appropriate for you, for the message control of the new People’s Party, namely George Orwell’s ‘1984’, to show you how the Ministry of Truth was organized there. I actually bought the second work for my children on a stay in England a few years ago: ‘Animal Farm’. I just didn't bring it because it doesn't fit our request today because I paid exactly 0 percent VAT in England, but books have been tax-free there for years and days, but I should have brought it with me, because it shows up – and that's why I also got the book for my children back then, in order to raise them – how good things can tip into totalitarianism. On this barn wall – I learned the English vocabulary barn while reading – seven very good demands were made when the animals took over the farm. The last, the seventh claim was: All animals are the same. But after some time there was only one principle, namely: All animals are the same, but with the addition: Only some animals are more equal. That this perverting of this principle does not become reality, we must always be careful to ensure that the principle of equality before the law as it stands in the federal constitution is always observed in a democratic society. But, especially in turquoise politics, we do not always have the impression that this is happening. From all sides, the suspicion is that it is not to their detriment for large corporations, millionaires, especially if they accidentally make permanent contracts just under the reporting threshold of the party law in favour of the ÖVP. The investigative committee is concerned with these things, but it is also true of your legislative proposals. The objection of Mr. Krainer was quite correct: Why do we promote large corporations now? McDonald’s, I think, has a three-quarters of Euro turnover, where you can calculate what this reduction brings. We have a counter-proposal. Our proposal is to provide, instead of a flat-rate reduction in VAT, for a partial refund to the entrepreneur, with 50 000 euros. This would also be Amazon, who was the main profiter of this lockdown, because the 50 000 euros play a small role. We have tabled this proposal in the form of an amendment which I have already explained in the main guidelines, but let me add: We want to ensure that the refund model on the one hand does not alter the VAT rate, on the other hand, with the limit that is collected – both with the 1 million euro limit on turnover and the 50 000 euro ceiling on reimbursement – ensure that no EU legal problems exist because we need support for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would ask, Madam President, that the amendment that has already been distributed be included in the negotiations. But now we come to the point again: Some are the same. There is this circle of friends of Sebastian Kurz; one of this circle of friends has become conspicuous a few weeks ago because a party took place in his locality, although it was closed. We only know this because the security authorities, i.e. Karl Nehammer's flexive forces, had to get in there because of the suspicion of the drug threat. But innocent was the owner of Martin Ho because he went to bed at 8:00. I have to ask him how he does this sometime, because even my youngest, my 11-year-old, laughs at me when I get eight, but good. Go to bed early means you get up early too. And if you're a very wake-up brush, you won't wait until the National Council decides any reduction to 5 percent – no, it's gone! In fact, I found that someone was eating in the dots on the father's day, that for a total of 474.20 euros, only 5 per cent of VAT will suddenly be charged – but on 14 March, the total amount of EUR 474.20 will be charged. June, ladies and gentlemen! [[Sadness at SPÖ and NEOS]] Martin Ho and his people don't need all that we do here, they're ahead of their time! [[Consistency with SPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Hauser.]] Now there could be a unique computer error. So a colleague of mine went to the same restaurant again, Mariahilfer Straße 36 – by the way excellent experimental sushi there – and has been charged for everything, including aperol sprayer, even 5 percent. [[Abg. Loacker: With the voucher from Ludwig!]] [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Now I ask you, Minister of Finance: Was there a special empowerment for the kind acquaintances of Mr. Federal Chancellor in advance that they have such advantages before, even before this law – some have called it theatre here – is passed in Parliament? You will have to examine it, Minister of State. Why? . We have at the same time introduced a statement of the facts with you as the head of the authority, namely, with two supporting documents. [[Abg. Lightenness: He doesn't care!]] I know he's looking in his cell phone. – These two invoices show that there is obviously too little VAT on a large scale. [[keeping a copy in height]] ==References== August only this reduced VAT and not the full payment, which is due under the law, would be completed a financial penalty. That's not supposed to happen. That is why we have put in place a statement of facts, with you as the head of the authority, Mr Mag. Blossom that you send out the financial police, even if the holder may be asleep – that may be – and that at least it will prevent VAT from being reduced here before everyone else. So that you don't forget to tell us if you did that, we'll at the same time send a request to you in the course of Parliament's inter-parliamentary law, in which we then want to know from you whether you've ensured, on the basis of the two evidence, that not those animals that are more equal than the others have advantages that all others are denied. We will always brand that and we will stop it. The same applies to the Ibiza Investigation Committee: As you may still have so many ambiguities, Minister of State, you will have to deal with this. By the way, I would have the memory checked once. Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[11:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9474	The amendment was presented in the broad outlines, was also distributed to all Members and is therefore under negotiation. [[Abg. Lightenness: The ÖVP seems to be speechless!]] Mr Erwin Anger, you will speak next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9508	Madam President. Minister! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the justice shown here by the ÖVP and the Greens is already surprising. If what Mr Matznetter has said here really is that it is obvious that not only in different establishments the tax system is handled differently – what has been repaired at the last moment – but also some companies have already received tax reductions before, then this is really worrying. I have looked at your draft of this law and have to say that the tax reduction on food and drink at the accommodation establishments, with different gastronomy companies, would have brought total injustice. If you're taking a Garni hotel or a shelter today, then of course they have a very different percentage of nights than the food and drink. If I used the same approach of around EUR 300 000 a year, this would have meant EUR 2 000 in tax relief a year or for the rest of the year. If I obtained a normal farm in the country with about 50 per cent accommodation and 50 per cent food and drink, he might have had a tax reduction of 5 000 to 7 000 euros. And if I made a fast food chain, it would have had the full tax advantage of eating and drinking, namely about 15 000 euros at the end of the year. This has been changed by the amendment you have tabled in the last second. In other words, this tax rate is now reduced to 5 percent for accommodation. We have always demanded that this injustice be remedied. That is why we will support this and we have also tabled this request. However, there are still many injustices against other companies. Many other companies are as damaged as the gastronomy and have no advantage. Mr Kopf said today that entrepreneurs can naturally retain this tax advantage – that is, the quality of the ÖVP according to the motto: The Lord takes it, the Lord is there, after which it is done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] First, you take the Epidemie Act and a right to compensation and then you give them back tax benefits. You can work out for yourself that they have a tax advantage at the end of a year. At the Chamber of Commerce we have not yet managed, Mr Secretary-General. [[towards Abg. Header]] There you are still sitting on the money you have taken away from entrepreneurs through compulsory contributions, and you are not willing to return this money to the entrepreneurs, which we have long called for. In order to alleviate this injustice to other companies and also to give them a tax advantage as far as VAT is concerned, we apply for a general reduction in turnover tax, not only by the end of the year, but until 31.3.2021, because it is hoped, above all in the gastronomy and in the accommodation, that they will have their homes full over Christmas and New Year, and otherwise they will have to delimit at 31 December, i.e. the offers starting from 1. It would have to be calculated in a different tax rate. That is why this should be extended to 31.3.2021 and extended to all businesses – not only gastronomy. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense: Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9652	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Elisabeth Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9676	Madam President. Dear High House! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! Gastronomy, tourism, media, art and culture: I think we agree that these industries are really affected by Corona. [[Call the SPÖ:The farmers?- Oh, my God!]] They were hard hit and are still – first closed for weeks or with small or few revenues, and even at the moment it is not as good as they wish. [[Abg. Matznetter: What about the farmers?]] What are the specific problems facing these companies? What problems do entrepreneurs face? . I would like to show this by an example of a company that has given media attention in recent weeks, namely Café Landtmann just around the corner. The sales of Café Landtmann fell by 60 percent, so it has only around 40 percent of the previous turnover. Why is that so? – Because there is a minimum distance of at least 1 meter between the tables – there is no bar service in all the locals anyway – and because many people still do not like to go outside the house or to the coffee shop. This is also the case in many other gastronomy companies, also in the arts and culture sector. At the same time, companies have higher costs to vote. Why do you have higher costs? – I think the disinfectant is still the least problem. However, they also have higher personnel costs only through the measures to be taken, for example, because guests have to be taken to the tables, because it is much more often necessary to clean between the individual guests – to stay with the gastronomy. Yes, there is a fixed-cost grant, but, as we know, for three out of six months and only after a 40 percent sales loss. In the case of Landtmann, this is true, but it is not true of companies with less burglary. I would like to address once again the criticism of Mr Krainer, who meant that it is only the big companies. No, on the contrary – I stay with the gastronomy –: 23 percent of the gastronomy companies are individuals, and the others have an average of 6.5 employees. So you can't talk about large businesses. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is clear: These companies, these industries need our support. That is why we are here today – even at a special meeting – to decide as quickly as possible to reduce sales tax in these sectors, on food, on drinks, on cards for cinemas, on theaters, also on newspapers and the like, as early as 1. July to the end of the year from currently 10, 13 or 20 percent to a uniform 5 percent, i.e. from a warp uniform to 5 percent. Those who think they're number players: For someone who lives on it, this is very crucial and important because it is possible to cover the costs better, because it is not foreseen that the lower sales tax will be passed on to the customers, but it will really stay in the company until the end of the year. That means that it is possible to cover a better cost. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] On average, the cost coverage in restaurants such as the Café Landtmann is about 5 percent and is currently under zero. So these 5 percent really make a huge difference. But as the name says, a revenue tax reduction only helps if there is turnover. Therefore, an appeal to us all, to you all: If we go out, we go to the inn, to the Beisl ums Eck, to the cabin, to the Heurigen, to the coffee house, we or you are making vacation – even campsites are affected by the tax reduction! There are many ways, therefore, to support the companies of our trust. In this sense, I wish you – a bit early because we have a meeting next week, where a few more measures will be taken – a nice summer!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9735	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9765	Madam President. Minister! Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Yeah, we're fine. We are pleased that you have also been looking at it, especially as regards the hotel industry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] This is also necessary because, whatever we have pointed out, hotels have a smaller capital structure. There's nothing you can say at all, and that's right. However, it is a bit different when Mr Kopf said: It is not an essential support, but it relieves the pain. It relieves the pain because the problems are still there and all the experts also say that only 2024 will reach the previous level, so it will take so long. That's where we need something else, I think. The dog is buried in detail, they say to us, because what if it doesn't hold in Brussels? That's an insecurity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] We don't know exactly who will pay the penalty payments: If the farms have to pay back, the federal government, Austria, or how does it work? We hope that it will hold because it is de facto a support. It is also a support for the hotel industry, and we find that good. But I believe that if we look forward to a bit – I have just talked to leading bank representatives recently – we have to say that we need a structural or a long-term strategy to help tourism as well. As I have said before in many speeches: Finally, tourism has the importance it deserves. Finally, we notice what happens when tourism is in the sick bed: If tourism dies, the carpenter dies! It is to be hoped that, especially in Salzburg, short-time work does not increase as it now rises, but then it eventually decreases sometime because the uncertainty is lost, including the uncertainty of the companies. My appeal is that we think about it together: How do we save this tourism? What does it have to do? – I need this solution to lock up until there is a vaccine, this acceptance of liability. It is necessary, Mr Minister, that tax aspects of the adjustment of a decommissioning premium should also be applied to those establishments which have not been able to shut down in the past because they compared the book value to the transport value and then had to bear a huge tax burden. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] These are those establishments that also keep the value added low on us, because they push the price down, and therefore it needed this decommissioning premium, a recovery balance. These tax measures need to be implemented. Mr Minister, it also needs, I believe, the provision of risk capital. Large banks, regional banks, as well as banks that have funded intensively especially in tourism, are thinking about providing risk capital. Above all, there must be tax relief for those who still have savings – and perhaps in greater quantities – for those who still have savings. Only in this way can we save the low-capital companies, save the infrastructure, save valleys. There is a need for the provision of risk capital, it needs a fund. However, it was necessary – and we also need to think about it, Mrs. Minister – in the spatial order – I already know that this is a country theme, but there will be farms that will not survive, and there will be farms that need to be relocated – especially in the restructuring, even when decommissioning, so that one can, for example, in a hotel that needs tourist use, transfer rooms to staff apartments, or relocate them. This is an important issue. What else needs to be done to increase our employment – that has been said by my colleague, Mr Kopf: A wage tax reform needs to be reformed, and labour costs have to be drastically reduced. Only in this way can we bring the employees back into employment and thus, especially in the service professions, also relieve the factor of work. The goal for us must be that the employees earn more and cost less. More net of less gross is, I think, the biggest job engine there can be. He also increases purchasing power, and we should not forget that. I think one of my previous speakers has said that there is something we are going to negotiate again. I'm just paying attention to something because the restart bonus was held so high last week. Especially in tourism, it is so that most of the time – colleague Obernosterer would confirm it – you agreed to a trial day to see if it works with the employee or not, and as soon as he has a trial day, there are only two ways: If you register it, he loses the restart bonus, and you don't log in; you also have to register a trial day. So we have to be very careful because it falls out of the eight weeks and does not get 500 euros. So it takes a guarantee at the restart bonus that you can arrange a trial day, even with registration, but so that the employee does not fall out of it. Dear Karlheinz Kopf, you have to look at this, because it's a mistake that has been committed there, and that's why, I say, it's important to listen to some practitioners and see how things continue because we have to save tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9858	Next speaker: Mr Alexander Melchior. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9883	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! During the last elections, we made a central promise, and that was that we wanted to reduce taxes and relieve people of it. I am pleased that we are doing this today in an uncomplicated but at the same time so effective way. Today we lower sales tax, whether it be for media, whether it be for culture, whether it be for nights or in the gastronomy sector. As a media speaker, I am pleased that we have today adopted another measure to support the media landscape in Austria to an extent that has never been possible in Austria before. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Another industry that was and is very affected by the corona crisis in Austria is gastronomy. We have experienced how difficult, often hopeless the situation was. There have then been many measures needed, whether it be the host country package, or other measures to support this industry as best as possible. We are now experiencing with the reduction in sales tax, that there is once again massive support, uncomplicated and effective, as I have already said. Because Mr Krainer said that everything was so complicated: I have met a host who has said to me that it is more effort for him to change the day map and the day menu than now to implement this measure, and it remains more effective for him. Gabi Obernosterer gave me an example. The Wirtshaus ums Eck, the Beisl ums Eck makes 300, 400 euros per day and saves 1 000 euros per month, which then remain in operation. This is a real support that we make possible for the hostess and that they also urgently need. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now my clubman reminded me that today the Federal Government has decided to grant further tax relief in the Council of Ministers. We lower the entrance tax rate from 25 to 20 percent and allow the people who go to work and pay taxes to remain more per month. It's really very pleasing. A person who earns 2 000 euros remains in the stock exchange over the year 350 euros more. That is how we fulfill our promises, and so we want to continue to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now I'm not just saying that as a family father: I am also glad that we continue to think about the families. With the child bonus of 360 euros, we support the families who have had a difficult time to deal with even during the Corona era and who also know exactly what to do with this money. As a family father, I can say it myself: All the money you get in addition, you spend it again for consumption. This will certainly be the case with this money. All of this we do to strengthen and secure the location. We must see that we are again reducing the unemployment rate, and we are on a very good path. There are now 118 000 unemployed less than at the height of the crisis We must continue to do this consistently. I would like to follow up on what the colleague of the Greens has said. We can all make our contribution to this. We can buy, consume Austrian products, we can go to our innkeepers and we can especially make holidays in Austria. Who needs tips: I think something in which Neos' club chairmen and I agree: There is probably the most beautiful holiday destination in the whole world in Austria. This is Altaussee. So make a vacation there and come. Get over there! Thank you. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Not all at the same time!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9951	Mr Gernot Blümel has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e9972	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the gallery! I am pleased that today we in Parliament can jointly bring about a further tax reduction, the reduction in sales tax. It has already been mentioned many times. Maybe just a few numbers: After all, we have launched a number of tax relief measures in the fight against the economic crisis by Corona, including the reduction of the turnover tax in the host company package and the package. [[Abg. Lightenness: Perhaps you can look at the numbers of my colleague Matznetter!]] If you count all of this together, the revenue tax reduction now and in the host package, then that, broken down on the approximately 41 000 host economies, on average, is more than 23 000 euros relief per host economy. That can really be seen. This should help to relieve the pain of this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I may be able to address a few more measures in the fight against the global economic crisis, which has also not been left out by Austria. Member Alexander Melchior has already referred to the reduction in the rate of income and income tax from 25 to 20 percent, which has been launched in the Council of Ministers today. This will be allocated here in Parliament so that we can decide on this as soon as possible. This will apply retroactively at 1.1 of this year and can be paid out in September. This means a discharge of up to 350 euros if it becomes fully staggering. This is not only important in terms of tax reductions, but also in order to stimulate consumption and increase demand. Negative taxes up to EUR 100, if you do not benefit from the normal tax reduction, are also an important point. Today, we have made it clear to the Council of Ministers that, if you are affected by short work, there is no reduction in the amount of Christmas and holiday money, of course, that this is to be maintained in full. We have also extended the increase in the peak tax rate, which will also be allocated. We have further relief measures in the area of location, the economy, namely a return on losses as an essential measure. There should be the possibility that companies that make a loss this year can offset the profits of the two previous years, which will make a further contribution to remedy the impact of the Corona economic crisis. From my point of view, the introduction of a degressive depreciation is a small economic policy revolution, by which up to 30 percent of the book value of an investment asset can already be written down in the first year. This will create flexibility and create a greater incentive for entrepreneurs to invest. They should be able to act more tax-free and flexible in order to be able to make long-term investments. This is a measure that has a lasting effect because it is unlimited. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I am grateful that we have put all of this in place together, and I hope that this will also find your agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10025	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10046	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since the beginning of the crisis, the Austrian National Bank has issued a weekly gross domestic product indicator to illustrate the areas in which the crisis has a special impact. This is a highly interesting instrument that delivers current results and not only weeks or months later. This GDP indicator of the Oesterreichische National Bank shows that there have been essentially three factors which determine their extent since the crisis began. [[Keeping a table in height on which a column diagram can be seen under the heading ‘Week GDP indicators for Austria’]] The first reason is the massively broken down consumption, shown here in blue. This is the main reason the gross domestic product in Austria has gone at the height of the crisis towards a fall of minus 25 percent. The second factor is falling exports and the third factor is tourism. Looking at the current situation – and there is a current GDP indicator of the Austrian National Bank for mid-June – it is still such that the fall-in in mid-June is minus 10 percent of the gross domestic product. This 10% reduction is mainly due to consumption, export and tourism. [[The speaker puts the panel on the speaker's desk.]] That is why we need to address exactly there and ask ourselves what we can do to increase consumption. We have put forward a number of important proposals as opposition. We asked the Austrian thousand. Vienna, for example, brought out a consumer voucher. I think this is very positive and good because it stimulates consumption. This Austrian thousand, as a consumer voucher until the 31st century. The government has so far refused to consume it. This rejected an instrument that would strengthen mass purchasing power by 31 December. The money should not be saved, it should flow into consumption – it was rejected! Another measure to strengthen mass purchasing power was also rejected by the government parties. The opposition's wish to increase unemployment benefit from 55 percent to 70 percent of the net income was rejected. There's no purchasing power, you see that. Consumer consumption is breaking down. And again: In the mid-June minus 10 percent of GDP. It is similar in tourism. He is a bearing pillar, and thank God today. I am glad that VAT reduction also applies to accommodation establishments, the tax rate has also been reduced to 5 percent in order to prevent the bureaucratic chaos that I do not need to address, and in fact to ensure that more money remains needed to businesses. That is a good and important measure! However, I add a “but”. It is said again and again that the money should remain completely in the farms. I would make a pragmatic proposal. You have to see that the consumer can also consume. Therefore, a pragmatic solution would be to pass on 50 percent of this tax reduction to consumers, so that the motivation for more consumption, more often to go to the inn, is increased, and this tax reduction is not reduced to 100 percent. That would be pragmatic access. It has also been said today and here that the tourism industry must continue to be helped, and that is right. It is important now to keep the farms liquid. This means that tax subsidies are necessary and important. It cannot therefore be said that, after tax receipts have expired, late interest rates must be paid, which is currently planned. That's exactly counterproductive, and that's what you have to leave out. The capital needs to be strengthened. There are several ways of strengthening the equity of the tourism companies concerned, which we have long called for. There must be an appreciation of the silent reserves in the balance sheet, which in many tourism companies store and slumber as land. If you dissolve these silent reserves, the depreciation base will be increased and the reserves will be increased. This is a necessary step which comes from the farms and does not have to be taken from outside. Secondly, it is necessary to abolish the disadvantage of capital financing, i.e. when an entrepreneur brings his own money into the company, that capital injection must not be taxed higher than if he enters the money into a bank or other investment form,
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10097	Mr President, you have to formulate the final sentence because your group speaking time has already been exhausted. - Please come to the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10113	So: Also, implement this measure I am referring to in order to strengthen the tourism industry, increase the capital base and secure liquidity! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10140	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10164	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! If you grow up as a child in the gastronomy, you also know the not so beautiful sides of it: a job that never ends, many hours of work until the night, accompanied by constant stress, whether in the kitchen or in the service, and constant contact with the people with the demand to always be friendly. We have not yet talked about the financial risk of opening or taking over a guest house, a restaurant, a bar or a nightclub. As a child, I thought you had to earn at least a lot. When I came up with the fact that this is not the case, I seriously wondered why they were doing something like that. Why do you do such a thing? And I have now asked this question to many people from the gastronomy. Why do you do something like that? Is it the romanticized idea of your own café or is it the desire or the pressure not to close the parental family business that has existed over generations? – The answers are as diverse as the locals themselves, but the answers always have a common sense, namely the desire to create something. This will in particular needs one, and that is courage. Behind our locals are people with a large portion of courage, with lots of design, with a lot of passion and heart blood, people who open the doors to us, who create a home for the guests – for us – from a room to a time. The step into independence is not easier. It wasn't just in the gastronomy before the Corona crisis, and now because of the aggravation due to the crisis it's not quite that. But they are people who have dreams, and we can share in these dreams. To ensure that this dream is not a financial nightmare, we have put in place measures, and now we follow further, such as the reduction of sales tax – but not only for the hospitality, but also for the arts and culture sector. We must not forget that they are also an important part of the added value of tourism. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Art and culture, apart from being like the air we need to breathe, are also the reason why people come to us to Vienna, to Bregenz, to Salzburg, and I am not just talking about high culture. Other important measures will follow apart from the reduction in sales tax: the extension or extension of fixed-cost subsidies, which is particularly important for night gastronomy, the loss return, which can be compensated for this year's losses with the profits of 2019 and 2018, thus leading to financial discharge, the automated loan moratorium with the support of credit repayments and the degressive depreciation, which will, in particular, reduce the tax burden in the initial phase of an investment. These measures are important, and it is good that we have taken them, because if we had not done so, many local, many hotels would be locked up and many jobs would be there in the long term. We know that tourism is one of the biggest employers, and therefore it is good that we have taken these measures. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] After the crisis, we will have to talk about how we can secure tourism without dependence. We will have to talk about strengthening the equity ratio. We have now seen how fragile the whole structure is, and we need to see that we get stability in tourism, so that nature does not suffer the benefit of the population and we achieve value creation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in the middle of the Corona crisis, even if it feels different now. She's not over yet. We also experience a severe recession, by the way, not because of the lockdown, but because of the global pandemic. That is why it is good for the sectors particularly affected that we have taken the measures. In short, so that we have dealt with this issue as well: You have to say quite clearly to the FPÖ's ever-prepared voucher: The principle of casting cans is socially unfair, because the low-earners have to pay more and more for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck]] For example, why a Heidi? Horten needs a holiday voucher, is incomprehensible! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Keck.]] At this point, I would like to say that I am happy about our social system right now, about our social state, because without it we would be quite different now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10227	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10248	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Dear sisters! Oh, my God! Let's start with the positive: Yes, at last something happens in tourism and in gastronomy. It was extremely time-consuming, and of course we welcome NEOS very expressly. We've been asking for it for weeks. Of course, the question remains over and over again – as has been the case with almost every aid package: Why not now? Why so complicated again? If it really matters, will it really help? – Apart from the snail pace, it is also so that we see in this package very many weaknesses. What exactly do I mean by that? – It has already been mentioned a few times that these planned VAT reductions in Brussels must only be cancelled. This has not yet happened, and there are a lot of experts who say that this could be quite difficult. We all hope it goes on, but even if it goes on, it's still about the package then on 2nd. It is agreed in the Federal Council on July and the law will enter into force retroactively. What does that mean? – That means it goes with 1. Let's go on July. Then how do I deal with it? When do I change my checkouts? ==References== ==References== July? What about a tax that has been taken retroactively? – It seems that not all the friends of the gastronomy were informed in advance that this is coming. Mr. Matznetter has already said that there was already 14 years of age. In some of the restaurants that are friends of June, a preliminary information has already been provided. [[Abg. Hanger: Go, Mrs. Double Bauer, that's not worthy of you! Normally you argue much more serious!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I would like to see a little more clarity for the companies, because the companies – you know – now have to change very quickly, and what they lack is, of course, safety. [[towards Abg. Hanger]] They don't know exactly what's going on here and what's going on, and that's why we'd actually do it. Whatever happens or can happen – even that has already been done –: What if the EU does not agree? What if the Commission really says: No, it's not going to be that way! – I hear it right, then it will be called again: Oh, the evil EU has done something wrong again! and then you can do a nice EU bashing again. The truth is, of course, how often: Of course, you have to do this before and you have to make it clear before. I'm afraid that's what you've been sleeping. But you also have to say that thanks be to God you woke up at a point. This point is the logis, because that in the tourism package until now the logis was not inside, so until quite recently, we just heard that this is now also inside – the nights were excluded, of course, was a gross lack. Ladies and gentlemen, last Thursday – it was not long ago – we had the Committee on this issue, and I asked the Federal Minister for Finance several times: Why is the logis excluded? – His answer to this was de facto – he formulated it differently –: That's it. – So there was no justification in the committee. [[Evocated:]] Then I also asked him if it was calculated how much it would cost if you added the logis. Then there was the statement: The Federal Ministry never did that. – I wonder, of course: You never figured it out today, do you know what that means? – So it’s a bit confused, although I have to say, of course, that I think it’s very good that it was finally included in this package. That is why we are going to agree to this proposal together today. But seriously: What you can see again is that there are no practitioners at work. You see very well, there's something going on again in the last second, and the difficulty is, of course, already – and the Minister of Finance has proved that in the past in particular – that there is a lack of practical know-how, because you have to think things over, otherwise you create chaos. What help could mean – and there were really different good alternative approaches from different directions – would be, for example, the NEOS solution. As you all know, this is the Freeze solution. The Freeze solution means nothing else – my colleague Schellhorn has already done it – as credit rates, interest payments, taxes for all tourism companies, including the tour operator with the deadline 1. ==References====External links== That would have been a very clear and a really, really effective help. Direct subsidies, of course, need to be further discussed in this House, because we also need them. When we talk about things that we also need: There are things we're not talking about in this house yet, and that's: What happens if the paid taxes or rents are due or the loans have to be repaid? - Then a megapleite wave threatens us. This is not only a topic for gastronomy and hospitality, it is generally a huge topic for all entrepreneurs and it has mega-effects not only on the economy, but of course also on social cohesion. To stop this, we need a lot more, and that's what we're talking about: It finally needs structural reforms. These structural reforms – all of them in this House know that all voters at home – are things that we have just been pushing out for decades. What does it need? – There is a need for a clear reduction in taxes and taxes on labour. We still have one of the highest rates of taxation in Europe. It needs real debureaucratisation. Let's just start with the trade order, because it would be very time-consuming! Of course, there's something else – and that's not easy to say: There will inevitably be a lot of corona insolvencies, that is, there will finally be a change here in Austria in dealing with business people whose companies will not survive this corona crisis, because until now, failure in Austria, we all know, is practically forbidden. It is different in Austria than in the USA: You're not an entrepreneur if you haven't failed anywhere three times. In Austria, you don't even get any credit. That's what you have to look at. Furthermore, you must, and you yourself say, stimulate private consumption, which is also a very important point. There are also many possibilities, but one very important thing is that cold progression is finally abolished. If that doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a terrible bill in the next few years. This will come to us, and we don't know if we can pay for it. Since I have often tried to explain it in my own words, today I lend myself a saying by Winston Churchill: “It is pointless to say: We're doing our best. You have to succeed in doing what is needed.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10305	Ms Elisabeth Köstinger spoke on behalf of the Federal Minister next time. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10329	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Tourism, and this has been mentioned several times today, is one of the sectors most affected by the Corona crisis. The restriction of travel freedom, of course, takes many of the businesses their business base. We currently see in Austria that the impact is very different: In some holiday regions, the situation is also very positive and the booking situation is very good, but we also have areas and establishments which are heavily affected by the effects of the restriction of travel freedom. This concerns mainly the city hotels industry, for example also Caterer, organizers, many congress organizers. Meetings that are not taking place at the moment also leave a large turnover hole. But Austria is not alone with the very massive concern: Meanwhile, the Corona crisis has grown into a world economic crisis. Tourism has actually come to a standstill, and it will take a long time for it to return to full recovery. It is currently being heard that Slovenia is considering closing the borders with Croatia again, the Greeks have already imposed very massive restrictions on entry, Italy is still very affected as regards individual regions. Therefore, we are very careful, but in Austria, as a result of the very consistent action of government and the population, we still have relatively good figures and, of course, continue to observe the situation. In any case, 2020 will be extremely challenging for tourism. According to current estimates, there will be around one third less guests in the accommodation area than usual, which of course also means about a third less turnover. But that is, as has been said, dependent on the respective concern. Therefore, as the Federal Government, we have always said that the areas of gastronomy, hotel industry, accommodation and tourism need further and above all special support. We have set three priorities within the framework of the government clause. Firstly, this is the rescue package, which is additional relief measures and, above all, investment measures. The measures we have put in place to date release a total volume of around EUR 50 billion, and this is aimed in particular at sectors which are particularly affected. The loss return, the so-called profit smoothing, mainly helps businesses that have been very successful in recent years, which is a very important measure. In particular, the fixed-cost grant will support businesses and areas which are now lacking the business base. The fixed cost grant was extended for six months. It will be adapted to the circumstances of the highly affected industries. I may, for example, delete the travel agencies, as this will allow for the possibility that frustrated services can be billed. Bus travel companies, Caterers, organizers, all these are also sectors and industries that will benefit massively from this fixed-cost grant. Today we decide to reduce the massive tax reduction for gastronomy and accommodation companies to 5 percent. This is a very important further step, especially for the accommodation facilities, which are still partially absent from utilization; A massive pain is eased. All accommodation companies are affected and all will benefit from the reduction in sales tax. We also heard a clarification: Meats, bakers and confectioners are included in the VAT reduction in the gastronomy, even if they also offer food and drink. It is also very important to stress that this VAT reduction includes visiting museums, cinemas and music events. Without the very important area of art and culture, the tourism sector in Austria would not be so successful at Weitem. We also attach great importance to supporting these industries. But above all, we have also made sure that there is a very simple, unbureaucratic implementation. At this point, thank you very much to the Ministry of Finance, above all Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel! The identification of the reduced tax rate of 5 percent at the exhibition can also be done by means of a manual correction or a correction by means of a stamp. This is a massive relief – a very great thank you for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, the package brings real relief to businesses and helps through a very, very difficult phase we are currently experiencing. It is about maintaining the cuisine, it is about the diverse gastronomic offer, but above all it is about quality tourism in Austria. Finally, we all benefit from these measures, especially those which are in the form of pre- and downstream areas. Whether the winegrower is the farmer, whether the breweries or the carpenters, whether the bakers are, of course, they all depend very much on the value added by tourism in Austria. Finally, let me say very cordially: Thank you very much!, say, all entrepreneurs who, together with their employees, ensure that we are not only one of the most beautiful but above all one of the safest holiday countries in the world. Thank you very much for diving through this crisis together with us, through this crisis! I am convinced that after that we will come out better, stronger and more successful than ever before. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10406	Next speaker: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10430	Madam President. Minister! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The control of the coronavirus has been very successful in Austria. This not only shows the figures from Austria, but is also confirmed in the international comparison. However, the last days show that one must be careful, careful to prevent a rapid increase in the numbers of infections. With 1. Further easing measures will be put in place again on July: in the gastronomy, in the indoor and outdoor events and in the sport. These are further steps to re-establish More normality is required. These easing measures are linked to economic activities and aid packages, which are important to bring our economy back a bit. In sectors where the restart only starts very slowly or in a staggering manner, people need to be taken under the arms in the short term, you have to help them. Lower that's why In the gastronomy and tourism sector, in the arts and culture sector, we have VAT at 5 percent. This is rapid and unbureaucratic assistance in sectors they currently need. In my community there is a Heurigen farm and three inn. Since the reopening they are relatively well visited, but the guests are a bit hesitant. This is understandable, because they have to be confident again. Many revenue has been lost, and some revenue will continue to be lost in the future. However, we want to preserve these farms in the region, they are not only economically important to us, but they are also very important for local life. Last week we had a press conference with me in the municipality in the museum village, the largest open-air museum in Lower Austria, where we presented the summer campaign – namely to make a holiday in Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only call you on this: Advertise for your region, for the attractions in your federal states! Advertise for our Austria! Our minister has already mentioned it: Our country is so versatile, there are so inexhaustible ways to make vacation here. We have mountains, we have museums, we have lakes, we have vineyards, cellar streets, great cycle paths and much more. Take advantage of this crisis as an opportunity to discover many beautiful places in Austria! Read many good books, go to museums, concerts, nature parks and zoos! Nevertheless, let us keep the few rules in place to stop Corona, otherwise a lot of good things would be done away with! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10478	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10500	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Two topics, which are very central from my point of view in relation to VAT and VAT, are the field of art and culture and media, and I may add a small note for post-corona time or, if we return to normal VAT mode: It is true that the sales tax for art and culture is 13 percent, but the gastronomy is 10 percent. Mrs Bundesminister, you stressed the following point: Perhaps you can create the connection from January 2021 in such a way that even art and culture apply 10 percent. We have repeatedly called for this, and I believe that this is an important equality – not least from the experience of recent times from which we know how closely this is related. So there is now a drop to 5 percent, and perhaps from January on there will be an increase to only 10 percent and not 13 percent for the arts and culture sector. If a fine artist sells a net image of 10 000 euros, it was up to now 11 300 euros that the buyer who had to pay the buyer. He or she will continue to pay, but the artist, the artist, will stay 800 euros. This is also true if it is sold in the gallery: Then the gallerist, the gallerist, also remains this 800 euros. I might be able to make a quiet appeal: It is clear that the galleries are also extremely affected, they have suffered quite a lot, but the data from the last art fairs show that online sales were actually very good; perhaps as a gallerist, you share the 800 euros that stay with the artists, because they really are affected to a great extent. This applies to the galleries, which is the so-called primary market in visual art, and the secondary market are the auction houses and the art trade. There's another division. Our joint amendment has now also succeeded in the fact that the circus and performers are inside, which I am particularly pleased as a lover of the circus, and I hope that it will be possible for the large circus to come again from September and also the circus to take place in Vienna at the Town Hall Square. I have been asked several times by large circus operators and operators. Another area added by the amendment is e-books and online publications. It is always a difficulty to estimate and see if this is good only for Amazon, but no, it is also good for smaller Austrian companies, because they have developed a high level of expertise and variants during the lockdown – especially in the field of e-books, but also in the field of online commerce. Finally, to the media: It is somehow the second media package. The first was the direct promotion of daily and weekly newspapers and commercial and non-commercial broadcasting. Now we are promoting this with the sales tax. For ten daily newspapers alone and two larger or large weekly newspapers, the amount charged is around 10 million euros, and if you charge the others, it will be much more. The question of digital revenues – e-books, online offers – is also very central, because you would otherwise have to count and program differently in the companies. In all matters of accounting, unity is particularly important in the media. Finally, as always, I can say: By the way, I am in favour of the change to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne's Windisch-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10545	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10566	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! It is undoubtedly important that we make the corresponding discharges. I just missed one thing. I have listened very attentively to you and have not yet heard a reply to it: What about the European Commission now? I was not in the committee, I just heard from the committee that in connection with the further VAT rate, friendly nostrils were made. Personally, friendly nostrils are a little too little because there may be a consequence of them. There are three possible consequences. The first is that we are going to file a infringement procedure and possibly penalties in millions. Now you can say: Okay, at the inconspicuous discharge we make, it doesn't make the penalties mandatory, we're buying it. - You can do that. The second possibility is that there may be direct applicability of a directive. I do not believe this because we need to discuss what is the right rate of VAT, which is applicable, and the entrepreneurs will not have to pay it, because it will not come. Nevertheless, I believe that you have to think about it in advance. The third problem, however, is what I fear most. It is what has been said in recent years by you in the new EIA: that if the European Commission tells us that the third reduced VAT rate and the third VAT rate is not going to do what you so much like to do in recent years, you are going to get back into your prayer mill-like EU bashing. We know this from the new turquoise ÖVP just as much as the FPÖ. They were once ministers of Europe – one has to speak of in the past, just as one has to speak in the past, when one speaks of the ÖVP being once a European party, for you have long passed that. Everything that is evil, everything that is bad, is for the EIA from Brussels. This was always the business of Klubobmann Kickl, he still does so – he also believes that everything is evil from Brussels – but that is now also quite typical of the ÖVP. If the European Commission is going to say that VAT rates are not the same, I am just waiting for it – it will come in the second! – that Minister of Finance exclaims Blümel aloud: The evil people in Brussels have banned us from doing this again! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that is a problem because one could get the promise in advance. We'll experience it. I know, the Federal Chancellor always says: This is all so overbureaucratic in Brussels! – This is particularly difficult from the side of an Austrian perspective at the bureaucrat jug, which we have in Austria. The Federal Chancellor wanted to remove thousands of EU regulations in the European election campaign. When he was asked, which, he did not know which one he wanted to delete, but the main thing was 1,000. I remember: He warned us all that Brussels wants to ban our cut, I think, because the panic is not right, and the Pommes are still in the same position. That's what we always hear from the ÖVP. When you think back to the best times of Jörg Haider, you have to say: Not even Jörg Haider has managed to resort as populistly to the European Union as it is currently bringing about the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] If they are then made aware that things may not be able to keep European law, then this reaction is there. I have not heard it so far, perhaps you can tell us again what the Commission has said and how friendly the nostrils were. We know this from other areas, for example at the time when we discussed the indexing of family aid. Every well-known expert in Austria with the exception of one – now you can discuss what the close relationship with you is in this context – has told you: This will not work with indexing the family allowance. - It is now with the ECJ. Let's see what's going on! If the ECJ tips it, I already know that Finance Minister Blümel will ride out and tell you something like this: The evil European Union! They don't allow us what we think is fair. You also do not care whether it is in accordance with European law. A few days ago, Minister Aschbacher made it clear what is important in the eyes of the ÖVP: that it is fair in the eyes of the ÖVP, not whether it is in accordance with European law, not whether it is in conformity with the law; it must be fair in the sense of the ÖVP. – I think that is more than difficult. The Federal Chancellor is only talking about legal persuasions when it comes to our legal order. He doesn't care. That's just how it's done. Populists policy, always saying, when they find something bad: Well, Brussels was to blame! It was always Brussels, we have nothing to do with it. The evil people in Brussels were guilty. That is why it is so bizarre, because it is also we as the Republic of Austria, who have voted in favour of these Treaties which are bound by them. Then it is all the more ridiculous to sit down and say: The evil ones in Brussels do not allow us to do so. – These are rules that we have given each other together. Accordingly, it is absurd to stand down afterwards and criticize it to this extent. Mr Melchior said earlier that the aid should be “uncomplicated and effective”. – That’s perfectly right, that’s the hour’s commandment. They should be effective, and they should be uncomplicated, but – and this is so important, and that is what the EIA should be so urgent about, and unfortunately also their new coalition partner, the Greens who have completely forgotten it – in a rule of law and in an association where we live within the European Union, things must also be in conformity with the law and, above all, in accordance with European law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10661	Now Mrs State Secretary Andrea Mayer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today's decisions will help artists, organizers and the creative economy to get better through the current corona crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The cultural sector is a sector particularly affected by the crisis. Especially now that it is possible for cultural holdings to be open again, it is very important that such a signal be sent out of support. We are talking about artistic achievements affected by this lower tax rate. All sales from the activities of artists, all tickets for cinemas, museums, theatres, music events, as well as artistic goods are covered by this measure. This measure provides an incentive to invest in art, buy art, and serves to boost the market. Let me also briefly take the opportunity to take out and correct an essential point in relation to the book trade, because there was criticism in the run-up! With this measure we do not mainly help Amazon and Co; the opposite is the case. You know, in Austria there are so-called book price fixing for books. It is a measure to preserve the cultural property book and a particularly important measure for Austrian authors, authors and publishers. We in Austria buy mainly books that appear in German publishers, and Germany has reduced VAT to 5 percent. However, prices in the bookstores in Germany remain the same. What does that mean? – This would mean that the publishers increase net prices. This is good for the publishers, good for the authors, but what does it mean for a bookstore in Austria? – The book price fixing refers to the net price. If this is rising now, the book in Austria would be more expensive for the customer. The main association of the Austrian book trade has made many times very, very clear that this would have meant this for many book dealers in Austria. With this VAT reduction, we were able to prevent this. What are our cities, our communities, the street trains without the stationary bookstore? It would be a poor country. Getting Now You might say: Yes, but Amazon still benefits more than the Austrian bookstore. – That too is wrong. 70 to 80 percent of the book market in Austria is based on stationary trade. Even in the remaining 20 to 30 percent, Amazon is not as strongly represented as one could believe, so it is not a market leader in this segment. Especially in the online book trade, the Austrian book dealers increased their share during the Corona crisis. You have taken a lot of measures to be able to switch to online trade very quickly. Many small Austrian companies act as close-to-suppliers, whether they sell a book via the shop table or online. That's good, it's supposed to stay that way. If we can help with this measure, then it is very, very much achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10733	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10755	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For many weeks now, we have been debating the various aid packages to ensure that the Austrian economy continues to run. If you get an overview, you'll be surprised at what's been set in motion here: the hardening fund, very important at the beginning, in order to really help immediately, the fixed-cost grant, which has recently been extended, extensive support in the area of taxes and social security contributions, liabilities, guarantees, short-time work, the NPO funds, to which the corresponding directives will be communicated in the next few days, and much more. I really believe that today's Gastro package, with today's cultural package – if I can say that in Mostviertlerian – we are putting one thing on top of it, because it also helps us all, I think, very, very much at heart. On the other hand, this debate – and this is important to me – gives me an opportunity to also talk about the SPÖ's economic policy. The SPÖ has said for months: The instrument with which you can really help the gastronomy is the voucher! – The Wiener SPÖ has now imposed it on him. The Federal SPÖ has long said in the Budget Committee meetings: Well, the voucher, we need it because it's the instrument bad! – But if you look a little more closely, you can see that the voucher may not be the right instrument. What are the disadvantages of the voucher? - First of all: It is not directly value-added. Not all the sum benefits the gastronomy, but of course the gastronomy also has to bear the appropriate costs. A second essential argument is: The voucher is substituted. That means, the question is always: Would you have gone to the host if it didn't have the voucher? – To a high extent, it will be so that you would still have gone to the host. The third argument – and this is very important to me because the SPÖ always says that the measures are all so bureaucratic: Just the voucher is bureaucratic. A voucher must be placed, a voucher must be sent out. We've seen the problems there. A voucher must be collected, a voucher must be billed. So if you say it's an unbureaucratic instrument, I don't know where you have that opinion. In contrast, the VAT rate will be reduced from the first day. There is a need for a change in the cash system, and liquidity is immediately in the company, with the first euro the company takes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Very well explained!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The customer doesn't like it!]] So much for the economic competence of SPÖ, especially in Vienna. It's very important to me, too, to say: The voucher does not really have a sustainable effect. Okay, there's a unique effect – I've already mentioned the substitution effect – but the stuff is very fast. Now, if I were to contrast the voucher, the Wiener SPÖ model, with our model, I would say that we really do not need a comparison. This model, of course, is much, much better. A final argument on the voucher is also important to me. One has heard again and again that the big chains are now all the big enemy images of the SPÖ Vienna. It is also quite clear that the voucher of the Wiener SPÖ also applies to McDonald’s, of course, no question at all. It's just never said that. But I would also like to say one thing: Especially McDonald’s, these are Austrian companies that pay taxes also in Austria. These are licensees who, of course, pay a franchise fee to McDonald’s, but they are Austrian companies, and they deserve our support as well. [[We welcome the ÖVP and the Deputies Lukas Hammer and Zorba.]] I personally believe that sometime the time will come when we will then assess whether the measures that we have taken together with the Federal Government will aim at whether they were effective. It's probably a little early at the moment. We still have to be very, very careful with the easing measures. The worst thing that can happen to us is that there is a second, perhaps smaller, corona crisis. But I have now come to the OECD's current report. The OECD is probably recognized as a source of information here in the House across the party borders. We know about the health crisis: Thanks to God, too, we have considered the least dead per million people worldwide; we currently have the least corona infected per million inhabitants. But it is also the economic data in this report, which, in my view, are very, very interesting. I have selected a total of three key figures which, from my point of view, are extremely important for an economy. This is the fall in gross domestic product, which, of course, has hit all the economies; I have looked at the current figures on unemployment – of course, unemployment is the subject that we must pay very close attention to – and the third characteristic I have chosen is: What relative debt will we have after the Corona crisis, and how can we finance these debts in the future? See: Throughout Europe, we are the best in the decline in gross domestic product, and I would like to stress this explicitly. We also have 6.2 percent down, but Sweden has 6.7 percent, Germany 6.6 percent and Switzerland 7.7 percent, for example. In the case of GDP decline, which is of course also given in our economy, we are at the forefront. A second important characteristic is, of course, unemployment. Personally, I always say: The issue of unemployment is central to all the issues that are being discussed, all the policy areas to be dealt with. We must always do everything we can to keep people in employment. Of course, this is where our short-work model comes in very much. There is also the following: According to OECD calculation, we currently have an unemployment of 5.8 percent and we have 9.8 percent throughout the euro area. The third characteristic I would like to look at is relative indebtedness. As an ÖVP politician, I also say: We made a paradigm change there. It was a long time, of course, that balanced households were very important to us, because we also want healthy finances for the future. I have already stressed this several times: This financial and budgetary policy in recent years has also led to the fact that we are currently able to finance our debt to very, very low interest rates. At the time of the OECD study, we will of course return to over 80 percent in relative debt. With the new packages, it is likely to go towards 90 percent. It is also the only chance to invest us out of the crisis. However, the financial markets have responded, and this is the most important, quite calmly, to this investment programme of our Republic. Interest rates continue to move in short-term bonds in the minus sector. This shows the great strength of our economy. This is the merit of all workers, all entrepreneurs, all farmers, and I believe that we must also say a great thank you! [[We welcome the ÖVP and the Deputies Lukas Hammer and Zorba.]] In this sense, I am convinced that if we continue to balance health policy and economic policy measures, we will be very well hit by the crisis in the next few weeks. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10828	Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10853	Madam President. Mrs Federal Minister for Tourism! Mrs State Secretary for Culture! Mr Finanzminister! There are 90 000 tourism companies in Austria. I would like to remain pure in tourism regarding the package that we decide on. 90,000 businesses, some 20 percent of which are individual companies, and 96 percent of these 90,000 are small businesses, family businesses, family-run enterprises. That towards SPÖ, which claims that there is a package made only for the great ones. I'm a guest house kid. I'm not a child anymore, I know how old I am in the meantime, but I grew up in a guest house. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Born!]] What has been negotiated by you today, Mrs Tourism Minister, and by you, Mrs State Secretary for Culture, with our Minister for Finance, has never been done in this uncomplicated way! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every operation comes in the evening, when it calculates the cash register, to a surplus yield, without in addition taking a sheet of paper or a ballpoint pen and having to make an application somewhere. [[Abg. Cashier:... System changeover!]] I'm just saying it on a flat-rate basis, which is what our crisis-shattered tourism industry means this season and this year, for a small, really small, very small business with a turnover of 100 000 euros – so in the city such a small beesl at the corner or outside of the country such a small guest house or a small coffee house. This means, at EUR 100 000, sales of EUR 15 000 in these six months, because you live mainly on drinks. 15,000 euros more income! I doubt you've had this as a profit in the past. A restaurant: 300 000 Euro sales, mixed operation of a few rooms, of food and beverages: 30,000 euros more income! This has not even been the profit of the inn. And we're not talking about a hotel yet, about a holiday hotel that has a turnover of 1 million euros – you can expect – how much is left. There's someone to tell me again: Who knows whether this is safe, who knows whether the EU is right for it? I understand that as an opposition it is not possible to go out and say: Dear Federal Government, Minister responsible, today you have really put something on the table with which businesses have been helped especially in a crisis-stricken industry such as tourism, and this without bureaucracy! I congratulate you, and I'm proud to be a tourist. And I tell you quite honestly: Everyone can look our tourists in the eye, because I don't know if in the summer there will be so much sunshine as it was created with this package for the businesses today, for the work motivation, because you know that more will be left at the end of the year. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Neßler and Mr Zorba on his work.]] I say one sentence to change the cash registers, which is supposed to be so complicated. Every one of you who doesn't know what to do in the summer, I invite you to stand behind the counter where I stand. I'll show you how to change a checkout. Do you understand me? I'll show you how much work it is to put in a day ticket to clean a day wine. And then I'll show you how much work it is to write a five at the VAT instead of a twenty-five. In addition, most large companies have contracts with remote maintenance. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This is the written offer for our two hotels 80 euros for the conversion if someone has a maintenance contract, 160 euros if someone has no maintenance contract. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] And then we go to the small farms, to the small Chachalan, in which he has his case alone and never issues an invoice of over 400 euros. Do you know what he can do? - So you know when you talk to the people. [[The speaker holds up a cashmere.]] Below is on it: Thank you for your visit and honor us again soon! And then you write in: VAT reduced from 1.7. to 31.12. 5 percent. It's up to you. And do you know where I have the wisdom? – From the homepage of our Minister of Finance. Thank you, Minister of Finance, thank you, Mrs Tourism Minister, many times!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10934	There's still a word message to me now. Please, Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e10984	Madam President. Mr. and Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, according to Gabi Obernosterer, with these flowery depictions, that's a bit hard, that's right, but, Gabi, you've already shown where the dog is buried: [[irradiated]] You need to reprogram IT again, you have to make a stamp, you might have to write a little handy on it. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] There would be a simpler solution, and we have also served this simpler solution with our amendment request today. I'll be there later. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In principle, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to forward this proposal, we welcome this proposal, which is not a question. At times, however, I wonder what priorities the Federal Government is pursuing in the measures it announces. The proposal to reduce VAT is, in turn, in line with the usual practice of this government: The greatest possible media attention is sought in the context of press conferences and not the best possible benefit for the people living in Austria. In this case, the gastronomy, together with the arts and culture industry, is the stage of the self-representation of this federal government. Image before content – this time was also the starting point for action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] As has been said, we support the proposal per se, we welcome it. But the great Damocles sword – Niki Scherak has done it wonderfully – is the EU conformity. On the one hand, we have used our exemptions in VAT rates, on the other hand, we are dealing with something quite different: hidden corporate support, which in addition triggeres these approval practices. That is, instead of clarifying this with the EU and getting the conformity, one has once again made a quick shot. We know what it does if it does not happen. [[Call the ÖVP: Now Corona is over!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We've already discussed IT costs. We have put forward a proposal and prepared an amendment: Let us turn the system around – the financial success and the effect of promoting companies would be the same! Let us take a system of reimbursement, so that it is the financial management that needs to act, and not the individual small businessmen! It is not the cultural sector, not the cultural institution, but the financial administration that has to act. She can do this – and you all know it very well – even with the prescriptions, so that the effect would be the same and not the individual entrepreneur who has to deal with it. This would be faster, safer and, above all, more unbureaucratic. We want this to be a special concern for us that the whole game ends at 1 million euros in sales, because it is important to us as social democracy that we do not promote foreign multis, but our – yes, Gabi! – 96 percent small and medium-sized enterprises. [[towards Abg. Upper Noster]] These, and also the artists, are a real concern to us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am very pleased that the artists are also at the heart of this crisis, because they are seriously affected by it and because they have been forgotten for a long time. For them, however, a certain complexity is also emerging, and the recent Wifo report on the situation of the cultural economy has actually shown very clearly what it needs: unbureaucratic support, fast and simple. Of the support that has been announced for the arts and culture industry and which we have also dealt with here in the House, only a very small part has actually arrived at the affected ones. I would like to remind you once again: We have not seen any guidelines on bridging funds for cultural creators, we have not seen any guidelines on non-profit organisations until now, and we have been discussing them for weeks – nothing is yet done. How could that be? Please sit down and focus on the measures that are already in place, work on getting them to the people quickly that we get them to the small and medium-sized enterprises, that we get them quickly to the art and culture creators, and go back to the marketing shame we have to watch all the time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More content, rapid implementation and less image would have been asked, fewer announcements, we must do things! Real help for small and medium-sized enterprises here in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] To the keyword “Multis”, which has fallen: If this is decided, according to the forward-looking calculations and calculations, it is EUR 15 million for McDonald’s and EUR 7.5 million for Amazon. I should like to remind you once again: Unemployed people get 450 euros once.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11088	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. Before we come to the vote, I ask all the political groups, in accordance with agreement, whether we can come to the vote or whether we wish to interrupt. Vote? – vote. Then I will do the same, and we will come to the votes. We shall vote on the draft law in 242 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Matznetter, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Kopf, Angerer, Götze, Schellhorn, and others. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part that the amendments just mentioned, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. MEPs Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 28 para. 52 C 1. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law, taking into account the amendment tabled by Members Kopf, Angerer, Götze, Schellhorn, colleagues on § 28 para. 52 Z 1 lit. a and b. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Nina Tomaselli, colleagues, on ‘No price increase by VAT as at 1.1.2021’. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[65/E]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues, on 'general halvation of the rate of turnover'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[12:48:24]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11201	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 2 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: Agenda item 2: ‘The amendment Annex 2/3 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal, is adopted in 242 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 2/2 in second [...] and third reading [...]. The motion for a resolution Supplement 2/1 EA is hereby adopted.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[12:49:27]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-06-30-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00040_d7e11250	I announce that self-employed applications 730/A(E) to 741/A(E) have been submitted at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 12.50 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
