ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1249	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am allowed to open the meeting and ask you to take a seat and keep the distances and take the hygiene precautions – there are disinfectants everywhere – and to keep a general distance. I also greet the spectators at home in front of the television. So we are sitting back in the recommended safety distance; a large part of the Members have taken place in the gallery. Today, there are also votes on the negotiating items in this relaxed seat system – blocked at the end of the meeting. There is also a clear allocation at the gallery of places with the political groups, and I can ask Members on the gallery to stay there in the votes. A total of 42 Members, namely Hermann Gahr, Kira Grünberg, ing, have been reported to be prevented for today's meeting. Josef Hechenberger, Franz Hörl, Rebecca Kirchbaumer, Andreas Minnich, Dr. Josef Moser, Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Gabriela Schwarz, Johann Singer, Ing. May. (FH) Alexandra Tanda, Mag. Ruth Becher, Mag. Thomas Drozda, Cornelia Ecker, Ing. Reinhold Einwallner, Mag. Karin Greiner, Klaus Köchl, Maximilian Köllner, MA, Robert Laimer, Sabine Schatz, Dr. Harald Tür, Ing. Markus Vogl, Petra Fürderwinkler, Petra Wimmer, Rainer Wimmer, Mag. Selma Yildirim, Nurten Yılmaz, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Alois Kainz, Peter Wurm, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Barbara Neßler, Bedrana Ribo, MA, Mag. Nina Tomaselli, Hermann Weratschnig, MBA MSc, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, Fiona Fiona Fiedler, BEd, Dr. Stephanie Krisper, Mag. Gerald Loacker, Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1415	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and will be transmitted to the TV library. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1454	In order to be able to negotiate items 2 and 7 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 2 and 7 are the report of the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 397/A by Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President, on the subject of 2. COVID-19 Act, 112 of the Supplements, as well as the report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption (GZ 17 St 5/19d) for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council ing. Norbert Hofer, 111 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal of the time-limit for these committee reports, to a corresponding sign – on the gallery with handsigns. - Thank you. This has been adopted unanimously. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1487	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 to 7 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1508	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the following Rules of Procedure were agreed: Agenda item 1: Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance: 10 minutes, two rounds of speakers according to club strength, each 10 minutes per club. Agenda items 2 to 7: two statements from the government bank, a round of speakers, two statements from the government bank, further rounds of speakers. The members of the Federal Government receive a total of 30 minutes and the clubs per 30 minutes of speaking time. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall limit the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the design of the speaking time just presented. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are therefore going into the agenda. [[12:06:12]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Do, what is necessary’
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1560	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request submitted. The Rules of Procedure are known. I can give the Minister for Finance the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1596	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! But also my dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Extraordinary times require extraordinary measures, and we are no doubt at a time when we are living. The fact that for the first time since 1953 there has been no classical budget speech in this situation is almost the most banal measure and, hopefully, an exception in the history of the Second Republic. In February we had a completely different situation in front of us: We had record employment in Austria at the time. ==References====External links== March, there was a press release of an Austrian Economic Research Institute, in which I would like to quote: “The results” of the economic test “showed a slight brightening of the mood in Austrian companies in January and February. [...] Also in the “Economic Test, no effects of the Coronavirus epidemic have been shown so far.” It was last week, Monday. Today, about ten days later, the world is another, also from the perspective of the Minister of Finance. The Coronavirus has developed from a suspected Chinese challenge to a global pandemic. In the meantime, there are many thousands of infected people in Austria and unfortunately already victims of death, the social life has actually come to an end, the people have fears, and the whole of Austria is almost in emergency operation. I would like to express my express thanks to all the staff involved, the doctors, health professionals, all the authorities who have worked so intensively in the last few days to prevent and help the worst where it is going, and above all to the quiet heroes of everyday life: to supermarket cashiers, to cleaning workers, to subway drivers and to civil and present servants. A great thank you to all of you! [[General condolences.]] I would have prepared a budget speech about two weeks ago, in which I would have spoken of a solid surplus. On Monday last week, when the press release just quoted came, we were just in the Ministry of Finance adapting individual half-rates from the budget speech, replacing terms in places that might otherwise be better formulated by others. On Tuesday, when the Federal Government imposed the measures to restrict public life on which it was intended that events with a certain number of visitors should no longer take place and be cancelled, I then telephoned with some economic researchers in that country to get an assessment, which is to say for the budget and for the budget speech that I, from the time I saw in a week, should hold. And it was not quite clear which assessment is valid. Some have said: 0.2 percent economic growth, others: 0.3? 0.4? 0.5? We have then done something in the Ministry of Finance, which has not yet happened: We adjusted the revenue estimate once more a week before the budget was presented – from a solid surplus towards minus 600 million euros in the administrative budget. On Wednesday I took the entire budget speech and threw it away because we knew: It's going to be quite different. There is no doubt that an exceptional situation also requires derogations, and therefore this budget is completely different from the previous budgets. It is a budget of the crisis, a budget which is the bitter truth of the crisis as far as it goes. Figures must be given, but they also ensure that we do as much as possible together so that people can cover their fixed costs and thus keep as many jobs as possible. It is intended to show a way through which we, as Austria, can work together to get through this crisis well. In this situation, it is not crucial – and I say that out of full conviction – what number is in the financial statements at the end of the year, but it will be crucial how many lives we have saved, how many jobs we have secured and how many companies we have saved from insolvency, ladies and gentlemen. That's my firm conviction. [[It was in favour of ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] We can't give up what numbers will be there at the end of the day, but we want to do what is necessary – I can also thank you all because we started this weekend. We set up an emergency aid fund of over EUR 4 billion on the weekend and decided on it here in the House. I would like to thank all the political groups represented in Parliament for their flexibility and cooperation and for the speed of this. The aim was to make the necessary money available quickly for the health sector and for the immediate needs of people so that the fear that fixed costs can no longer be covered. We have already made the first disbursements from this fund: About 130 million euros for the purchase of breathing masks, protective suits et cetera. In addition, we have already shown this fund in the budget with a surplus authorisation, and it is already finding itself in the general government deficit. The general government deficit after Maastricht, including this fund, will be 1%. As far as the administrative deficit is concerned, the surplus authority, as it belongs to budgetary law, is not yet inside. But that was just a first step. We presented another package this week: a protective shield for the Austrian economy, for jobs in Austria amounting to a total of 38 billion euros. In addition to the 4 billion euros, some 15 billion euros of aid and compensation funds will be added, especially for those companies which are particularly affected by the measures the Federal Government has set to reduce the spread of the virus. We have planned some EUR 10 billion for tax subsidies. Since Monday, we have received 21 163 requests for advance payment reduction or tax relief applications in the financial offices. By last night, 18 860 had already been completed, i.e. almost 90 percent. I can thank all the staff in the Ministry of Finance for this quick and unbureaucratic approach – thank you very much! [[General condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] A further EUR 9 billion is provided for guarantees and liabilities in order to ensure liquidity in companies as well. This will, of course, have an impact on the budget. I have always said that a balanced budget is important, but yes, the health of the Austrians, the jobs in this country and the location are important. The scope we have worked out in recent years through a sound budgetary policy now enables us to help quickly and unbureaucratically, ladies and gentlemen. This budget is a snapshot of a major crisis, undoubtedly the biggest crisis my generation has ever experienced in Austria. No one really knows, how long it will last, and no one knows how far-reaching the consequences will be. What we know, however, is that we will do everything we can to preserve the health of Austrians, to secure jobs and to carry through the crisis – it costs what it wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1705	Klubobmann August Wöginger is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1729	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Today, a budget statement takes place in an exceptional time, yes, I would say, in an exceptional situation. We do not currently live in a normal political world, but we are in the middle of crisis management. Within just a few days, our lives in Austria and, in fact, in Europe have changed completely. Austria has been in an emergency operation since Monday. Schools, restaurants and many shops are closed. We no longer give our hands, social contacts need to be reduced to a minimum. I would like to thank the people at this point very much for the fact that this emergency operation is also adopted. Over 90 percent of citizens support these measures, and I recommend that the remaining 10 percent do so, especially the older generation. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] But we also have to say: What is still possible in this country? – Of course it is possible to go to work; Home office should be made wherever it goes; that's no question. But we also need a functioning infrastructure. I would like to thank two groups today, along with the entire safety staff and health staff, the cleaning staff and, of course, the sellers, two groups: for the first time, the truck drivers – they are not mentioned at all – are those who ensure that at the end of the day, very important things are still being transported for us. A very warm thank you to all those who sit in the trucks for us! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] I would like to thank the second group for ensuring that our tables remain covered with high-quality food. We often only know this, ladies and gentlemen, in an absolutely emergency situation – I personally appreciate it all my life, because I was raised like that. Now it is absolutely essential that our farmers ensure that we get high-quality food on the table every day, because this is what we, ladies and gentlemen, need to survive. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] We can go shopping, to the doctor, to the pharmacy. Please also keep the necessary distance! We help those in need of neighborhood assistance who, as it were, cannot help themselves. I also notice that family associations are really working well, even that old and young don't come together, which is highly recommended. To walk a note: Walking and representing your feet does not mean training for the triathlon! Unfortunately, there are images of God that show that people gather in certain places in excess. I can only appeal: Keep the necessary distance and avoid greater accumulations! I do not make a conscious statement on the budget today because I believe that the situation requires putting people's health in the foreground and doing everything for it. The Minister of Finance has said that he has, as it were, presented a snapshot to Parliament. We will continue to deal with this after Easter if we can. There will still be many changes in this area, precisely because of the measures we are now gradually implementing. In this situation, it is about human health and not about a balanced budget. We have managed well in recent years, now we have to help. I would like to thank the Federal Government, especially you, Mr Finanzminister and Mr Vice-Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor, all the members of the government, and one again. [[Keeping a panel in height on which, in the background of a red and white-red flag, the volumes of the individual auxiliary packages are listed]] Finally, we have a 38 billion euro package. It is a red-and-white shield that is stretched up here for the people in Austria: for entrepreneurs, for workers, for the entire population. I would like the Federal Government to acknowledge, appreciate and respect that this has become possible in this short time. – Thank you very much. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] We help quickly, we help as well as unbureaucratically as possible. We are still taking further steps today, we are talking about tax concessions, an emergency aid package, the implementation of short work, guarantees and liability, so that we can secure jobs at the end of the day and ensure liquidity in companies as much as possible. We help where we can, even with a sufficient sum, I would say once. We now assume that this will be enough for the first weeks. I underline the sentence of the Federal Chancellor: “It costs what it wants”; now help and support are announced. For this, ladies and gentlemen, we have been elected to work for you. We were chosen to protect you, too. We in Austria hold together, together we will master this crisis. Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1815	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1836	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Never was a budget as fast as this. This is not an accusation to anyone, but I believe that 4 hours after it was sent to Parliament, it was actually history – which shows how fast we are living – because the budget, in which only 4 billion euros were planned, naturally needs to be changed to 38 billion euros, due to the increase in the package from 4 billion euros to 38 billion euros. This is what we are going to do in Parliament. I think that is true, because at the end of this crisis, one will not measure the success of the deficit, the level of debt, but one will measure it by how few people have died, how few people have become unemployed and how few have had to lock up businesses. These are the numbers we need to focus on. [[He welcomed the SPÖ, as well as representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] I believe that it is precisely in a situation like now that we need to help quickly and that we also create clarity and security, that is, people know clearly what is going on. This was not ideal for us, for example, with regard to short-time work. We will be crossing the 100 000 additional unemployed border this week – we are just about there today. Unfortunately, it has not succeeded in achieving that every entrepreneur, every entrepreneur, knew exactly what this package looks like last Sunday, and the certainty that short-time work is the better model – for employees and also for entrepreneurs. In the meantime, this has been successful, but we have lost time there. It is much in this second corona package, which is decided today, right, but there are some things, since you already know that this is too little, is too small or does not help fast enough and sometimes does not create the necessary security. Of course, the 1-billion euro package, the hardness fund for small businesses, for the EPUs, for non-profit organizations is too small. There's a cap of 1 billion euros. This means that the smallest companies get, although they have almost 20 percent of the employees, about 8 percent of the aid. That's too little. There's no cover for the big ones. Why is there a lid for the little ones? We have to get this lid away for the little ones, it's too low. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] The resolution related to this hardness fund, which is really about the smallest and small enterprises – up to ten employees, up to 20 employees – is about the tens of thousands of individuals, the non-profit organizations, is now not being implemented by the financial office, as we have proposed – although we know that the financial office works in an extremely efficient, crazy manner. The Minister of Finance has just said that 90 percent of the applications received this week have been completed this week. What you're doing now is building up a structure within the Chamber of Commerce, a new database. You don't have the data, the people there have to be trained first. All the data are in the Ministry of Finance, which must be transferred first, and the Ministry of Finance has three times as many employees as the Chamber of Commerce. It will take three times as long as this emergency aid, this rapid aid reaches small businesses, because it is done over the Chamber of Commerce and not over the financial offices. That's what we think is wrong. [[Call FPÖ and NEOS:We too!]] We need to help quickly, and we can help quickly through the financial offices. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] There are at least two points on which there is no clarity that everyone needs. These are the rents: A small company that has now been officially locked up, which no longer has any revenue, now has a solution for the employees, but it has no solution for rent. Now to pay weekly and probably for months rent without having any revenue, that won't go. There is a general law, a 100-year-old law, of which many say that it is true; others say that it will not apply. [[Abg. Scherak: 300 years!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't gossip about the ABGB!]] That's not the security we need. Different judges may see this differently. We need clarity, that's why we said: Let's write this into the law! The companies which have been officially detained need to: Duration of the lock no rent to pay because we force them to lock. This clarity is missing. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Another ambiguity concerns tax exemption. In the original design was simply a clarification inside: All the help from these different pots is free. – This has now been deleted. They say we don't need to sign this up because it's tax-free anyway. – Quite honestly: Then we write it pure, because it is clear to all, if it is black on white, then it is clear; and we need this clarity for the workers, we need this clarity for the micro-enterprises and also for the large farms. We need this clarity, and we can also write it in order to achieve this clarity so that it does not, as was the case with short work, become unclear for a few days and Zig thousands of unemployed people we could have saved ourselves. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] What we really need to pay attention to is injustice. At the moment, for example, farms in Ischgl receive 100 percent replacements, not businesses in Obertauern. - I can't. We need the same rules for all farms in Austria. The hotels in Obertauern now suffer just as the hotels in Ischgl or in Sankt Anton, but one get more, the other less. I can't. We need fair treatment for all, and in particular the Federal Chancellor is required to ensure that the regulations that have existed in Tyrol are exactly the same as they apply to all of Austria. That's what we need. We need this justice. One last point: We now have to talk about issues that were unclear and contentious a few weeks ago. Now I'm just bringing two examples: One is, of course, an unconditional basic income; if that makes sense, then you have to think about whether we need it at least for a limited period of time. The second is the so-called helicopter money, which is a note bank instrument. These are things that we need to discuss tabooly now, whether we need it, because I fear that this crisis is not a crisis of days or weeks, but, as the Minister of Health always says, it will be months, and we will have to think about more instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1935	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e1956	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Estimated Austrians! In difficult times, a national shoulder closure is needed. But this must not be one-sided, dear members of the government parties. The fact that the 4-billion euro aid package we decided last Sunday will not be enough is that the opposition was already clear on Sunday, the government parties were not yet. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: already on Saturday!]] The fact that individuals and small and small enterprises will not benefit from the first aid package was already clear on Sunday, the government parties not yet. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: already on Saturday!]] In the second aid package, individuals and micro-enterprises are now finally taken into account. Without the pressure of the opposition parties, these would have fallen by mass through the rust and would have received their financial assistance only if it had already been far too late. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] If I am already in bankruptcy, the Federal Government's financial assistance will be of no use to me either. In any case, the second aid package provides 1 billion euros for individuals and micro-enterprises in a hardness fund. If these entrepreneurs will not also receive part of the remaining aid package – a sum of EUR 38 billion – then this EUR 1 billion will certainly be too little. It is also inexplicable why the hardness fund is handled by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and not by the financial offices. The financial offices have all the data they need to manage the hardness fund, and the financial offices also have the appropriate capacity. Staff members of the financial offices are now partly forced to reduce holidays and to reduce slip-offs. This would not be necessary if the financial offices were to be entrusted with the disbursement from the hardening fund. In addition, honestly, I have no good feeling when sensitive tax and social security data are passed on to the Chamber of Commerce. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] In addition, there are many disbursement recipients who are not even members of the Chamber of Commerce. It is also inexplicable – Mr Krainer has already mentioned it – why the accommodation and cable car operations in the Paznauntal and in Sankt Anton am Arlberg should be compensated for a limited period of time after the Epidemic Law – including the lost profit. Why are accommodation and cable car companies in Tyrol treated better than, for example, such companies in Salzburg? This is a massive injustice that needs to be eliminated. Either we all compensate for the epidemic law or none. There must be no extra sausage here! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Another problem has not yet been solved satisfactoryly: Many entrepreneurs will soon be unable to pay their rent because of the Covid-19 measures. It needs a pragmatic solution. The Minister for Justice has prevented such a solution in the budget committee yesterday, and he said that tenants should take the right course. This is not a satisfactory solution for entrepreneurs, Mrs. Justice Minister. This questionable and also bureaucratic solution competence reminds me of the Minister of Finance, who was proud of yesterday's budget committee and today's plenary that the financial offices have already completed thousands of applications for the reduction of income tax or corporate tax prepayments. By means of a legal solution, which would have led to automatic adjustment or removal of income tax or corporation tax prepayments, we would have saved the employees of the financial offices a lot of work and time and also the corresponding tax consulting costs. This time, for example, the staff of the financial offices could have invested more effectively in the care of taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister of Finance, say goodbye to bureaucracy! Entrepreneurs, especially individuals and small and small enterprises, now need unbureaucratic emergency aid without if and but. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2031	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2053	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens – at home, I hope! That's what I said last Sunday. I hope you're home, and I hope you stay home. A few weeks ago, When we entered this government, we started to negotiate the budget directly. A budget is usually negotiated not with the coalition partner, but rather with the Ministry of Finance. This is the same for all the ministries concerned. It was clear, it is a transitional budget, the year is already advanced, this government programme will not be available in all its details, because not all projects can be handled as far back as 2020. However, we have endeavoured to negotiate and accommodate the things that we have set as priorities in the coalition programme, especially climate change, but also gaps in justice, the expansion of violence in the women's budget. That's three or four weeks ago. It feels like it was three or four months ago today. Everything's different today. A few weeks ago, when we talked about millions of amounts, we're talking about billions today. It is billions that are necessary to keep the Austrian economy running in order to secure the jobs of workers in order to ensure that we can survive this crisis, which is massive – the most massive crisis in the Second Republic – as well as possible. On Sunday, in an incredible act of strength by all the political groups – once again, thanks to everyone – we managed to bring the first measures in place. Today, five days later, we stand here again and take further measures, in particular to safeguard the economy and workers, in order to best deal with this extremely challenging situation. What makes me very happy in this situation is that it is actually possible to create a broad shoulder closure of all political groups. As far as the foundations are concerned, we agree on the need to take a great deal of money in order to see the people, the companies, the workers, that we can best address the consequences of the measures we have to put in place in order to limit the spread of the virus. We decided on Sunday 4 billion euros in emergency aid. Today, we decide to support the hard-fall fund, with which we mainly want to support the micro- and micro-enterprises, farmers, EPCs, artists and artists, who now have the most massive direct effects that can not, like larger companies, rely on large reserves. There are, of course, measures for these too, but today we decide on the fall-out fund. Moreover, we have not only these 4 billion euros, but we have another 34 billion euros to support the Austrian economy, the Austrian workers and Austrian companies in the pipeline. I am also very pleased with a second aspect, namely that we are here in Austria in a state where we can rely on well-secure institutions, on a health system that is not privatized, but is publicly funded, in which it does not matter whether someone can afford a treatment or a medication, as it is, for example, in the USA. I am very glad that we in Austria can rely on the fact that the state institutions are set up in such a way that they are there for everyone that they can carry the population as a whole well. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as with Members of the Neos.]] I am also glad that we are able to decide on these urgent measures and support them as a state. It is our responsibility as politicians and politicians. It is our responsibility in this Parliament to ensure that we get through this massive crisis as best we can. We are still discussing many measures today. At this point I would like to thank the legitimists who have made it possible for this immense legislative pact, which will be adopted today, which has already been drawn up on Sunday. That's a group that I don't think has been thanked yet. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2119	I have another correction: Mr Köllner is present, and not present, as was mistakenly read. Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2143	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Minister Anschober! If I stand out here, I can tell you: As an entrepreneur – and I speak, I think I am not doing well for a lot of entrepreneurs in this country. Entrepreneurs are not doing well. You're sleeping badly, as I am. However, we need to look forward and find ways to keep employees. Keeping the employees in operation, finding opportunities to explore these probably toughest weeks, maybe also months to survive economically in the end as a human being, but also as an entrepreneur, that is a great challenge for all of us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In view of countless calls and emails from entrepreneurs, I assume that there are a lot of people who see themselves on the abyss. Mr Minister, we stand together, we have always said that. We also said: It needs an shoulder closure when it comes to fighting Corona. That is not a question at all, but that does not mean that we must agree in the direction of economic aid. At any rate, there is a need to have a discourse. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] The fact is, Mr. Minister, we're all sitting in a boat. All of us in here, but also all other Austrians are in the same boat. Let me therefore structure the big questions once! There are four big points. First: We need to be able to understand and interpret the current measures properly. Secondly, We must implement the current measures in such a way that they are neither bureaucratic nor become toxic cases for entrepreneurship, for the economy in the medium term. We need maximum security and minimal bureaucracy here. Thirdly, We have to think about who will pay the bill one day. Who pays the bill for the help we now provide? And fourthly, We've heard a lot about salami in the last few days, not just from tactics. But how big is the salami? We don't know yet. This is one of the important questions that the economy or entrepreneurs need to answer in order to have planning. First, understand and interpret correctly: That's where I've seen the short work. There are still many open questions. One of them is the one of the cranes. This probably deters many entrepreneurs from sending their employees into short-time work. This is quite different from at the time of the Chernobyl disaster. With this virus, it may well be that 50 percent of my 32 employees get sick in Salzburg, get sick, then these 50 percent of sick employees remain with the employer at 100 percent. That's a big challenge. I think we must manage to overcome this obstacle, namely, the disease also in the event of a viral disease, in times of such a crisis, in such a way that people can remain in short work. How is the short work refounded by the AMS? For a short period or maybe two or three months? That's also one of the big questions. This is about liquidity. Our pickup curve is similar to that of the Matterhorn and is not flattering in the next few weeks. This is one of the major challenges that we must also face, Mr Vice-Chancellor, and we must provide liquid funds as quickly as possible. Just as we rightly demand social removal in the field of health, so we need fast funding for entrepreneurship. This is one of the highest commandments. As far as economic promotion is concerned, I must say: At the Vienna Chamber of Commerce, there is an emergency fund, dear Karlheinz, and I hope there will be insight into the Vienna Chamber of Commerce. [[towards Abg. Header]] There are, in fact, basic rules which require at least two years to pay for the basic payment in order to get in there at all. - That's absurd! We always talk about a country of founders, and I must say that is not thinking in the sense of the founders. Please take that up! This is a really sharp measure that you don't leave it under the lifeguard. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The second point: We must take measures in such a way that they are neither bureaucratic nor become toxic cases in the medium term. For example, what perspective is there after this three-month short work? What kind of perspective do we have? Is it the whole so-called salami or are it just discs? – We entrepreneurs need confidence, but also precise and serious planning. Let's put it on the table as planned! A tourism company cannot start from today to tomorrow from one to one hundred, it needs a long-term phase to do so. A hairdresser will probably have a full business again the next day, but in tourism this is different. I would therefore ask you: Do not send us in the circle, but look forward with the entrepreneurs and consider this bureaucratic handling as an obsolete! Quick help! My predecessors have already said it: That's a joke with the Chamber of Commerce! [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Don't be angry with me, but the workers don't send you to the Chamber of Workers either, that's where the AMS does. We could do this to the Ministry of Finance. The big question is: Why can't this be done by the financial offices in the regions? – You have all the data, know about everything. Or is there a problem with the financial offices that we are not aware of that you have kept us silent? The big request is not to send us in the circle. There are now six institutions involved – the Chamber of Commerce, the AMS, the Control Bank, the Ministry of Economics. That's too much! It takes too long to maintain liquidity. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] But we also need to think about how things go on after that. This token must be paid by anyone, and there is a risk that this great crisis will eat investment for the next generations. The Voice In fact, it is already talking about nationalization and property tax, all of which is in the room. But I'm telling you: It is not for those who need to vote the bitterly needed upswing, namely, entrepreneurs who are withdrawing funds, so that we can also vote on this upswing. That's one of the essential questions. That is why I ask you, Minister of Finance: Do you have a team of experts who think about the next day? Who are these experts? Are you aware that this great crisis can also cause a division of society? It is really worrying if we do not now think about what will be one day after this crisis. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then I'll have to tell you, too. We need to get fit. It is also a major challenge: How do we create economic resilience? – We can only create economic resilience, even out of this great crisis, if we relieve the labour factor for the future. Only in this way can we obtain the regional cycles. Otherwise, in the sense of globalisation, we will be able to ship everything outside, to the East, to the Far East, but we will no longer be able to handle it on this continent. This is one of the major challenges when the labour factor is too high. Finally, I come to speak to the salami and its size: Minister Anschober is already talking about months of the crisis. I fully agree that there can be no prognosis, but for two months, five months, or even 18 months, we have to expect major to untold problems. How do you act as Minister of Finance? How do entrepreneurs deal with this? These are scenarios and forecasts that we need. If you have any, tell us! Tell us how they can do this! This question is also very important: What are we doing in Europe? There is the question, Mrs Schramböck: What are you doing, Mrs Edtstadler, in this respect in Brussels to strengthen SMEs? 98 percent of the companies in Austria are small and medium-sized enterprises, all of which are now waving. It's not just tourism. I do not want to deal specifically with tourism now – that has already been done by my previous speakers such as foxes and cranes – but I give you an example: They have provided an export fund of 2 billion euros for those who export.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2268	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2283	Yes, Mr President. – This export fund is intended for exporting companies. Tourism is an export goods. You forgot to involve him, too. No one was asked – and that is my final word – how he did this in his business. Entrepreneurs just did it. That's what I've got to say: The entrepreneurs are also willing to think in common. I simply do not understand this bashing, which I once again saw yesterday by Mr Katzian, in a world of social partners, when it is said to seek solutions together. No one has to ask how he gets help. The government should just do it. That's my concern for you: Do it as quickly as possible, and keep an eye on this pick-up curve for entrepreneurs! That's a Matterhorn right now. We need three months of liquidity support, and that immediately, from tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2321	Mr Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2343	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. Federal Minister! We have heard since the last war we have never been in such a situation. One thing you can believe: We are all aware of the responsibility that this government has for people, and also the responsibility that we, as Members of this House, now have for all outside Austria. That's what we're aware of. If you have heard from Mr Finanzminister about the budget, where the world was standing last Monday and where we stand today, if you look at the crisis management of this government and if you hear what people are talking at home, what the neighbors are saying, or if you telephone or talk across the balcony, you know exactly what happened in these ten days. Do you know what the neighbors said to me last night when I drove to Vienna? – We don’t give you advice, but direct this government in Vienna: We trust them, starting from the Federal Chancellor to the Vice Chancellor and the entire government team and all that is related to it. I only have an insight into what is being done, and I say quite honestly about my valley and my constituency – but I think I also speak for many others – a quite, quite warm thank you! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] No human knows how this is developing and what is coming to an end, but the government has not been able to act faster. Looking beyond borders, we see that other governments are only slowing down what the Austrian Federal Government is doing. If we look at the aid package with this EUR 38 billion, which will later be discussed: What's the most important thing now? – To maintain the health system, to see that as many people as possible remain at work or at least keep their jobs and that the farms have the power to re-start when it is overcrowded. At present 38 billion euros have been made available for this purpose. How important it is to be properly budgeted in good times shows: From 2015 to today, the Austrian Federal Government has had a reduction in the government debt ratio by 15 percent, expected to be GDP. We are now 69 percent debt, before we were 84 percent. Let's see what Italy did before yesterday and what Germany did yesterday: Italy put a 22-billion-euro-help package on the table last night. This is about 1 percent of GDP in Italy. Germany decided yesterday on a 40-billion euro aid package. This is about 1 percent of GDP in Germany. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: already on Friday!]] Austria now has a 38 billion euro package plus the previously approved 4 billion. That is about 10 percent of GDP. Why can we do this so quickly and so neatly? – I also say: Because Austria is creditable and still gets loans at top interest rates. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] What does this mean in the impact for a company and for its employees? - I know what I'm talking about: We locked up on Sunday. The faces of the employees should have seen you: The issue has been locked up four weeks earlier at the end of the season.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2387	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2408	I'm glad to be able to go home today and tell my children and the entrepreneurs: People, we're going to lock up on the 15th, and we can guarantee the employees that we're going to hire them over time or anything else, so they're safe, and the companies must be sure they have the necessary resources at their disposal so they can get back to work normally. The Federal Government is working on this. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, I thank you for your work and I wish we all stay healthy. Let us be aware of this task! – Good and good health!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2438	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2459	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Minister of Finance! The fact that the budget is, of course, under the impression of Corona today is not a question. There is no question that there is now no budgetary speech in the classical sense. That's perfectly normal, that's true. That there is now a 38 billion euro package in Austria, I would like to begin by thanking the Austrian taxpayers because I believe it is those who need to finance it in the future. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is important that we keep our economy running, especially in those areas where this is still possible – that is, who can work in the home office – but there are, of course, a lot of farms in which this is not possible, but in which it is quite possible for workers to work at a safety distance. I don't think it's the right way to go down and put it on zero now because there's going to be time after that. If we no longer have any economic basis at all, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be particularly funny for Austria either. One thing is clear, this corona crisis will keep us in breath for quite a long time. There's not only no zero deficit this year. Indebtedness will rise, and it will be reduced for many years. However, we also need a corresponding economic performance, because the better it is, the faster we can also vote this crisis economically, ladies and gentlemen. But – and I missed it a little bit, Minister of Finance: One should now also take the banks and the FMA into a bit of a duty, because if there is a national, a red and white-red shoulder closure, then it also needs the banks to help. They were also helped in 2008, and it would be time for the banks to return something of what they have received in aid – at that time 100 billion euros from the Austrian taxpayer – to the employers, but also to the workers, because there are both groups affected, also the EPCs, for which there are no really tangible solutions yet, and the small entrepreneurs. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I said it yesterday in the Committee on Budgets, a very big request to this Federal Government: A lot of entrepreneurs feel a bit overwhelmed by this short work. It is our goal to keep as many people as possible in employment. However, it also needs to be done especially for small businesses that do not have large accounting agencies in the background that calculate this for them, examples of which are practical. Yes, there is a table on the AMS homepage, but all of this is not really tangible. I think it would be a task now – and I ask you, all the ministers responsible; that can be the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Labour – to give real help to entrepreneurs, even to workers, to show that, if short-time work comes: What does this cost the entrepreneur at the end of the day? – This is a requirement I consider necessary to make it really as depressed and as easy as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second part concerns the question: What if the money isn't enough, what will be? – Of course we also heard: ‘It costs what it wants.’ – Yes, if you want to help, you will have to help anyway, we will not be able to do any different. Nevertheless, I have to say that now – precisely because of the fact that we are going to have a lasting damage – you have to be honest and you also have to face mistakes: Errors that have happened, for example, in Tyrol, which mean sustainable damage to the tourism industry in Austria. No one needs to believe, just because in Austria, it is now no longer media-wide, that in the foreign media, in the Norwegian media, it is not still the subject that Austria has acted far too late that Austria has acted knowingly late. Of course, the Norwegians will not be particularly happy, and Austria will not be the tourism country number one in the future. All of this is sustainable damage, these are image damage, ladies and gentlemen, and precisely these mistakes must not happen. If you read in the daily newspapers that there have been compromise solutions: There are no compromises with health! As there must be no compromise, health must be above economic interests. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Musical.]] This means, of course, that measures will need to be taken in the future so that no mistakes – or as few as possible – occur. But if something like this happens in Tyrol – I have to point out once again, I believe that Mr Krainer has already said it – then there must be no inequality, then everyone should be treated in accordance with the COVID-19 law, and it must not be that few – that is, those who have caused a huge crisis that will continue to burden tourism for a long time – are also improved by being compensated for under the Epidemic Law. All these are things that you have to bring to a general discussion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A request also from our side to the Federal Government: Please finally talk to the media! I do not think it serves anyone now if we have horror scenarios in the media every day, if we only spread fear and panic in the population, because then we will reap fear and panic in the population. [[Abg. Haubner: This is you!]] This is exactly the worst thing that can happen to us now, because it also needs optimism for our people, it needs something for the citizens to stick to.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2519	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2534	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you that the Federal Government also has discussions with the media – the media also have a responsibility – so that Austria as a whole can this current health/health crisis is at least half good and then the economic crisis that will come will really come!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2567	Mr Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2588	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to thank you for having a budget at all. It's a big challenge already in normal times, and I think now, especially. I would also like to join the previous speakers and, in some cases, to resist something. Of course, it is now a priority to discuss the health and economic consequences of the Corona crisis, and also what the budgetary implications are. Of course, these consequences have to be countered, as follows: “It costs what it wants” – there is a lot of consensus about that too. But we also come to the next item on the agenda for the Corona package, which means that I would also like to address some of the other aspects of the budget, even if they are, so to speak, a little bit with caution, because there are also a few other aspects. I think there is also a time after Corona, and for this time it is important that there are the first right signals and means, and they are also shown in this budget. On the one hand, it has succeeded in increasing the resources for justice. There is more than 70 million euros, which I believe is important for independence and also for the efficiency of justice. I hope that this will resolve some of the concerns that might arise in this context. I am particularly pleased for us Greens, because this is one of the central concerns of us. There will also be a trend change in climate. We have 100 million euros more in the UG 43 in climate, energy and environment and 160 million euros more in the UG 41 in sustainable mobility. This is a lot: for example, this 70 million euros in the out-of-the-oil bonus, which will help us to move slowly; also the promotion of active mobility – foot and bicycle transport – and the shift of freight to rail. In addition, I am particularly pleased at this phase in which people spend a lot of time at home, knowing that violence against women is likely to rise, that there will be 2 million euros more for the women's budget. After ten years of stagnation, this is an increase of 20 percent, which can be seen, and the measures presented yesterday, I think, in view of the difficulties there are, a happy step. In the coming weeks, of course, it will be primarily a matter of protecting health, jobs and businesses as best I can, and I really thank the Federal Government for acting quickly and unbureaucratically. I would like to say to the opposition: We also knew on Sunday that the 4 billion euros will probably be too little, but they must be brought by Parliament once again, and on Sunday they have already been put together again and worked on the next package. [[Abg. Kickl:... to us it is not located... only other number!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] – Yes, yes, but it must be in the quality of an initiative proposal, and there have already been some difficulties with the requests you have made. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That's at speed. I think you can also see at the financial offices that there is a quick work, the Federal Government is busy around the clock and - - – yes, there are different areas for different tasks, and I think that makes sense. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Why don't you let them do...?]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Thank you. What I wanted to say is that the signals are also important for the future, and they are also shown in the budget. This is, I believe, a great challenge, even if it is only a snapshot in the budget now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2669	Mr Matznetter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2691	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear, ladies and gentlemen! I have only a short remaining speaking time, but after this speech I want to use it. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the television screens, you will be surprised how in a crisis with these dimensions the cooperation of political elites cannot work properly. Normally, one would assume that in such a situation – and we have heard: the companies have to, the employees are massively cancelled, the companies do not know how to pay rent, electricity, tax, social security and so on – go together. What do we see? – Ads in Turquoise, team Austria, up to the glasses of the President, his glasses and the disinfection - – – No! Ladies and gentlemen, seriously! [[point out the turquoise eyeglass version of President Sobotka as well as the turquoise bottle of the disinfectant on the speaker's console]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Can't he?]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Well, the disinfectant...!]] We have made so many reasonable proposals, again today, and they will be voted down. The colleague turns out and says: Well, last week we knew, it won't fit, you can't just agree! – Instead of being put together and implementing the reasonable proposals! Suspend rental – § 1104 ABGB –: make it! Payment moratorium: make it! Do not let the poor officials handle 18,000 applications! Just listen and do – together! [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] They are voting down, ladies and gentlemen, and so there is no crisis resistance – no! Don't start to advertise how good you were in the crisis, because we'll have to talk about countries like Taiwan having 60 people today and we're much more. We'll talk about it afterwards, but not now, and now you shouldn't work with advertising! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Voices You can make our reasonable proposals! Let's work together! Werner Kogler has known it as an opposition member: In 2008, of course, we worked as a government with the opposition, we took their objections into the laws and decided unanimously. Now we have to argue about the reporting obligation of the Minister of Finance, which is of course a matter of course. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] We'll want to know who got the billions later. If the little ones were taken into the safety net under the Epidemic Act, we will want to know whether those who had 100 million euros of deposits and then cancelled them were not among the recipients. We'll want to know!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2753	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2769	Thank you, Mr President – and ask for another pair of glasses! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2803	I may announce that we have a current case of infection – it is Mr. Singer – so I will convene a stand-alone address and ask you to keep your distance, as it is – even greater distance. We will now discuss the measures and then come back. [[Abg. Scherak: You might want to say that he's not here!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: He's not here! Can you say that?]] – Mr Singer is not present, yes. I'm allowed to interrupt the session for a short time. [[The sitting was suspended at 1.31 p.m. and resumed at 14.49 a.m.]] [[14:49:30]] Statement by the President on the confirmed Cov infection of a representative
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2856	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! I can inform you that among the members of the National Council there is a mandate infected with Corona. We immediately convened a stand-in-law and discussed how we have to proceed – together with all the political groups – with the participation of the official doctor. For us, it was clear that we want to avoid any risk of infection as much as possible, therefore those colleagues who have been identified with the honourable Member in recent days, especially at the last meeting, who may have been in contact with the High Risk Distance, the Extended Risk Distance. You will be tested immediately to ensure that nothing happens during today's session. In addition, I can assure you that Parliament is not only able to decide and work at all times, but can also carry out its tasks in accordance with the Constitution at any time. The rule of law is a very special moment especially in times of crisis. The public can trust that the measures proposed by the Government or Parliament itself will also be put in legal decisions to ensure that those bodies which have to watch over them and organise them can also be sure that these decisions have been taken in conformity with the Constitution and can be implemented. We shall now proceed to the sitting. [[14:51:29]] 2. Point German Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Seas of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the theCOVID- 19Act )( 112d.a.) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (53 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Oil Supply Act 2012 (101 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (34 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Vocational Training Act (100 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (19D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Code of Law, the Notarial Code, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers, the EARAG, the Notarial Audit Act, the Law of Law of the Law of Law and the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the 6. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (52 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a Federal Law on the Transfer Procedure with Iceland and Norway (Iceland-Norway Transfer Act (INÜG) and the Criminal Code 1975, the Jugendgerichtsgesetz 1988, the Federal Law on Justice Cooperation in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union, the Extradition and Legal Assistance Act, the Federal Law on Cooperation with the International Criminal Court, the Federal Law on Cooperation with International Courts, the Stock Exchange Act 2018 and the Redemption Act 1972 (Strafrechtsan EU-Adaptationsgesetz 2020 – StrEU-AG 2020) (93 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Prosecution for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption (GZ 17 St 5/19d) for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council of Ing. Norbert Hofer(111 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2953	We now come to points 2 to 7 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e2980	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the government! But above all: Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, very special: Dear Austrians! We are living at a time of emergency, in a very challenging phase, even in a phase of change. Much that would have been unthinkable a few months ago is happening right now, with all the change, with all the circumcisions, with all the abandonment that this means for many of us, but, of course, especially for the Austrians. Of course, in these days I often hear many uncertain questions: How's all this going? When does that end? Are the measures we are taking? Is there any light on the horizon? – First of all, I would like to say clearly that I am firmly convinced that we are doing the right thing. The measures we take are approved by all experts. They are taken over by many other countries, partly in a similar way, sometimes, as today in Bavaria, directly one to one. So as a country, as a Republic, we are facing a challenge, but we are focusing on the right measures. It's important now that we don't lose endurance. I'm looking for all Austrians that we're going to work together to ensure that we have the condition and the discipline that we're going to need in the next few weeks. And I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that we, as politicians and politicians, too, make our contribution to the provisions and, above all, do everything to protect ourselves, so as to protect our families and to make a major contribution to protecting the health of every individual in Austria as best possible. The Minister of Health and I have been often asked in recent weeks: What if we're infecting ourselves anyway? The distribution can be yes do not prevent 100 percent. – That’s all perfectly right, but it’s not that much about whether we’re infecting ourselves, but much more about the question when we’re infecting ourselves. We experience, for example, Italy, the effects of overcoming the health system when people die not only because the disease is so bad, but also because people die because they cannot be treated at all. This must be avoided at all costs, so I am glad that we are making such tough, so consistent measures so fast, because this can contribute and hopefully also that the much quoted peak does not happen as quickly and not as intensively, but it comes to a certain shift until after the flu wave and then the reached peak does not hit us in full force, as is the case in our neighbouring country. I would like to express my thanks to the Austrians for almost a week's exceptional state of affairs, after almost a week's downfall on emergency operations, for how the measures are carried out, how disciplined people stick to them and everyone really does great things: everyone who reduces their social contacts at home, who hastens away, who also give up, but of course also all the people who go to work every day. These are the ones we see directly on television: the medical staff, the police, the employees in the supermarkets. But there are also many others who do this unnoticed: in production, in industry, in agriculture, in logistics. There are many people who make a contribution every day so that our system works, the supply chains can be maintained, the security of supply is given and, above all, the economic operation can be maintained in a certain minimum operation and the economic consequences of the coronavirus do not affect us with full hardness. In addition to the health consequences, in addition to suffering, sickness and in many cases death, we must not close our eyes to the fact that there is also a second concern for many people: the fear of or the immediate impact of unemployment, the economic impact on businesses, the need to go into short work. It is a lot of what people have not earned and what many now meet directly, every individual, the families around it, a large number of people who have never been daily. We also want to do everything together as a Republic to help as much as possible. I should like to thank all the members of the Federal Government, especially the Vice-Chancellor and the Minister of Finance for the rapid development of a 38 billion euro aid package. But I should also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, that all this will be carried across the party borders, so that we can help people in Austria as best as possible, but also as quickly as possible: all those who lose their jobs; many people, so that they can not lose their jobs but remain in employment; companies, so that liquidity is given and much more. – Thank you very much to all parties, especially to the opposition for this good joint action. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and Greens, with representatives of SPÖ, Amesbauer and Bernhard.]] In addition, we want to launch measures in the area of crisis management, technical adaptations, labour market regulations and financial suspension through a coronasammel law. I would also like to thank you for having a broad consensus here. I would like to thank all those who have worked out these measures so quickly, but above all you, ladies and gentlemen, too, for saying that: There is a majority in favour across the party borders, but above all also in order that you have made it possible for this meeting to take place so quickly and we cannot pay attention to the usual formalities, but we can quickly implement the necessary measures. A great thank you to all of you as Members of Parliament, to the entire government team, but above all to the Austrians! It will be challenging weeks, it will be difficult weeks, it will need months until we have fully overcome this crisis, but the stronger we keep together, the more successful we will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3049	I can now give the floor to Mr Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3071	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Estimated government colleagues! Dear spectators at home everywhere in Austria! Yeah, it's challenging. You tend to look for superlatives. In any case, it is exceptional, and extraordinary influences on our social, economic and social system certainly require extraordinary measures. It is not just days, it will be weeks, and many aftereffects will probably last months, so we will soon be rolling out further aid measures in the economic, economic field. I would like to thank all those who are now working in all areas and maintain the supply chains. But I would also like to thank all those in the population who participate today. So many regulations and normative regulations have been adopted, but of course it also needs the participation of individuals and individuals. Those who do it, and that's a big part, is worth a special thank you. They all help save lives. The more we stick to and participate in these measures, the more human lives we will save. That's important to us. We cannot send a policeman to everyone, we do not have the opportunity to do so; but we call on you to make use of the possibilities with your mind, for example, when it comes to the starting limits, the exceptions. It doesn't make sense if then groups form outside again and the distances are not observed. Let's say it again. Cohesion is now a distance, that's what this appeal is all about. I can report from my own department, from the sports area. Yes, we said movement, the natural urge is important. Go for a walk, sometimes walk or ride a bike, all of which is okay. But if we get reports again that there are also more and more people who use the beautiful mountains of Austria according to tradition as sports equipment, then that is not the right attitude, I think. We can't give the impression now – even some of us – as if nothing were yet. The most important argument at this point, however, is: Please avoid risky activities, because everyone who has a mountain accident will ensure that a place is less in the hospital! We are working towards it, all measures are derived from it – we also have reason to hope that we can do the same – that the health system of Austria can handle it, especially intensive medicine. Keeping the tip of the infected curve as flat as possible is the most important goal we have in mind. This will also result in us delaying the achievement of this summit, which is not at all different, and will flatten this increase. [[Call for the call.]] – What is the meaning of pictures? If we do not want circumstances and facts like those in northern Italy that we have heard about in the last few days, then we must comply with these measures and guidelines. If it comes to the point that intensive medicine is no longer coming to an end, then the problem is the biggest. However, we have – the Minister of Health will still address this – the legitimate hope that, especially if we extend the measures, we can also achieve this successfully. So there is hope again. That's important to me, too. The second point is the aid packages in the economic sector. The 38 billion euros now stand. Today's law already contains initial allocations, including with regard to the allocation of settlements. It is important to me, however, to bear the following: The calls – I heard them before, also from members of the opposition – are fully entitled. Much has to go fast, completely right; and it can't be that we have to be loud back and forth, whether this is really fair and whether in the one case a little too much and in the other case a little too little is paid, and of loud efforts to wait too long for justice and constituency. This is quite my impression and that is why it is now being finished with high pressure. It's a marathon, yes, a marathon that needs to be run at the beginning of the sprint pace. It is precisely as far as the aid is concerned: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. – The proverb is known, and for many, especially the individual companies, the micro-enterprises, the free employees and all these categories not only have to be the solution in the next few weeks, but also the first payouts have to be made. There are many among them who only live on these incomes and are otherwise not insured at all. Don't worry, we're completely aware of that! That's why: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. It also helps the whole economy because, if they have a perspective, individuals can keep the whole economy running better as well. What we absolutely want to avoid is, so to speak, a spiral down: that an industry no longer goes on and the effect of a networked economic system logically on the next one. That is why we take on guarantees, which is very important for the liquidity of companies, and introduce the support of tax prepayments or tax debts. This, too, holds liquidity in the companies, and that is how it is designed. It's important that no one should stay behind. But I still appeal to develop understanding, if not everyone on the first day, when all of this is done, gets exactly the same thing as the other. The situations are not comparable now. But it's important that those who need it first get it first. That will be the principle. That's why we start with individual companies and micro-enterprises. One last: There is, as I have said, reason for hope, but it is also true that this new cohesion lives on that we endure. So keep your distance and keep up! – We can take it with us once. But let's stay brave! There are many reasons for this. The future can only be made of courage, will and deed or power of action. That's what we should get, then we'll get it together as best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3146	Mr Klubobmann's speech is August Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3170	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Hans Singer, I know you're watching now, so I'd like to wish you all the best for your quarantine. – It is the first of our series that unfortunately infected itself with the corona virus. He's doing well physically. – We wish you all the best for the next few days, dear Hans! [[Prolonged general condolences.]] Of course, we would also like to see the many hundreds of people concerned in a similar way. I would like to say: There is also a great deal of self-responsibility, self-responsibility, and we still have to work on it. I would now like to say the following: A lot of text messages, e-mails and telephone calls have recently reached me, where people tell me: I am glad that I am at home in Austria, I am grateful that there is this federal government, I am grateful for the fact that Parliament has taken the decisions in this windmill. – I would just like to say thank you once again, as a member of the legislative body to the executive, namely to our federal government, for an exemplary and truly excellent work in this difficult situation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I think it is important that all these measures are respected. They are now extended until Easter, which is also necessary. We have at least the sign of hope that we can push the curve down, because we have quickly put the measures in place and because this, we hope, will also show effect. That is what it is all about: the protection of our population, the health of Austrians. This is a top priority, ladies and gentlemen. That's to be put up in front of all the other things that still move us. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Bernhard.]] Please follow these measures, especially when it comes to leisure time! Of course you can represent your feet, but we can already get pictures of mass collections on certain free areas – that should not be. Of course, work is continuing in many areas. That's okay, too. Where Home Office is possible, you should do it. It is also a request and a request to implement it in those areas in which it is possible. Of course, we need to take care of ourselves, go to the doctor, go to the pharmacy, no question. Of course, we need to help those in society who can no longer help themselves. They are mostly members of our older generation who live alone at home. This is about – I see it in my own family – that now it is for parents or for the parents in law. We'll do that. We are also guilty of the older generation, and I am truly grateful to all the older people who accept this help and go outside as little as possible. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] On the other hand, however, it is necessary for the government and the legislation to act, in order to support those who are now particularly affected by the effects of this situation. On the one hand, these are the businesses, our entrepreneurs, on the other hand the employees, and therefore we bind these packages, we now adopt 44 different laws. What do we do with it? – Simply support, partly maintain deadlines and suspend deadlines, ranging from the works council elections to the whole area of justice. There is the Law on Hardening Funding that helps the Smallest Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would like to say this again, because only in an emergency situation will we really know what we have on the table every day – now we cook a lot more people at home again than we do otherwise –: I would like to express my thanks once again to our farmers who go into the stable every day in the morning and in the evening and make sure that we get high-quality food on the table even in this difficult situation. – A hearty retribution! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We support these measures, as well as we can, as quickly as we can and, of course, at an appropriate level: EUR 38 billion for emergency aid, short-time work, to ensure that liquidity is maintained in businesses. That's very important. I ask everyone who now makes decisions in the enterprises: Accept this short work model! I also expressly thank the social partners. It's a very good model. It is also in this situation exactly the right thing to choose this model. It offers total flexibility, it works from the first hour, and it really helps. Thanks also for the possibility of anchoring this in the laws. It's a very extensive package. I would like to thank all the political groups, especially the opposition parties, for being able to carry it through Parliament again in Windseaile. It is in the sense of the Austrian population. It is in the sense that we limit this corona virus to the best possible extent and that we do everything we can to protect our population in Austria as best we can. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3262	Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3283	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Leave Let me say basically to the current events and to the discussions of the last hour here in Parliament! A functioning democracy and thus also an actionable Parliament must be assured at all times and especially now with all its power. [[He welcomed SPÖ, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is thousands of people who work every day to ensure our basic care in any area of the difficult time, thousands of people in which we have to thank ourselves. Just as we rely on these people to ensure our basic care in the hospitals and elsewhere, all people in Austria must be able to rely on us, Parliament, because Parliament is the stable anchor especially in difficult times like this for our country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: The ÖVP does not see it that way!]] It has already been mentioned today, and we know the terrifying figures: From Monday to Wednesday this week, there were 74,000 people registered with the AMS – 2% of all working people in Austria, yes, in just three days; Thousands of families face an uncertain future from day to day. I'll tell you: We really must do everything we can to ensure that this development of the last three days does not continue in the next days, weeks and months. We must do everything we can to ensure that this virus only causes the biggest health crisis in our recent history and does not lead to the biggest social crisis since World War II. We know that the European Central Bank is straining a shield of 750 billion euros. Austria provides a 38 billion euro aid package – at 80 billion euros federal budget. That's right, that's necessary, that's not alternative. Every firm that needs assistance and support must be given this support, especially the micro-enterprises and small businesses, with one aim: to secure jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What it needs, therefore, is above all a job guarantee for all those companies that are now to receive and receive this support. This means that support should be linked to a job guarantee, because one must be clear: We do not want and can afford mass unemployment. It's to be prevented. In addition to protecting health, this is our big goal. We must prevent our country from perhaps being different after this crisis. We must prevent social peace from being something we may only remember later. This must be avoided with all power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These exceptional times require exceptional measures. This has already been said several times in the morning. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! They will be equipped with very far-reaching and unique powers and instruments in the history of the Second Republic today by Parliament as well as at the last special session on Sunday, a few days ago. For this we all expect ourselves something, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, namely that you are careful to deal responsibly with these powers given to you by us in this difficult time. Yes, we understand the need for this in this unique situation, but one must be quite clear: These measures must be temporary for the duration of the crisis and for no longer. [[I should like to congratulate SPÖ, FPÖ, NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Federal Government must involve us, the Austrian Parliament, regularly and regularly inform us about the further steps. Yes, this extraordinary time requires exceptional thinking, exceptional decisions and measures, including and especially in the fight against this viral disease. However, you do not need new instruments to combat health consequences, because you already have them, and I therefore very much appeal to them: Make use of it and use it! The Epidemic Law, which was created precisely for such situations decades ago, about 100 years ago, gives you the legal basis for this. We need a common, uniform and centrally controlled approach to all necessary measures. Whether in Ischgl, St. Christoph or in St. Anton, whether in Tyrol, Upper Austria or Lower Austria: The authorities throughout Austria need uniform rules. It needs uniform, clear action. Health personnel must be protected equally everywhere. To make it clear: Our health staff need a single, a protection concept, not more than nine or perhaps more than 200 different recommendations – because we have more than 200 hospitals and hospitals in Austria. Yes, it needs the same clear technical rules everywhere, whether it be for workers' protection for all workers who ensure our basic care, whether it be for the protection of medical personnel, whether it be for the conversion to returnees who arrive daily in planes at our airports or elsewhere, or for the handling of quarantine cases, suspected cases, cases of illness, for the handling of the closing of playgrounds or parking facilities. It takes a quick and secure decision-making process for all those involved in management in our country in connection with the spread of the corona virus, for all institutions and for all persons. Yes, decree, order, issue instructions! Do whatever is necessary to achieve this, because, ladies and gentlemen, in such a crisis, federalism cannot be the only answer! The virus knows no difference between different federal states and not even between different municipalities or hospitals. The situation, ladies and gentlemen, is serious and the time is getting very short! Our support is yours. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3356	Mr Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3377	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear Austrians! It has been so in the last days that our country has come together in a quite, very impressive way – paradoxically, Ideally, because we have kept spatial distance together. Cohesions and helping together – you've noticed this – are not empty words, but that's felt everywhere, can be experienced, and every one of us can say good conscience that he's part of a whole, very large community that's going to defeat this virus together. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Our country – and not only ours – has changed: from a mode of life – and now one has to be quite honest – which has in some way also been an experience mode, from this mode of life or experience to a survival mode – with a very, very big goal: to find a normality as quickly as possible. However, we must also be aware of the following: This normality will be another after this crisis, and many things will be re-evaluated. Think, for example, of the European Union, which, in many, many things, in little things with an incredible penetrating for the so-called protection of the European population – with things that no one could understand – which has opened up the locks in Windseail when it came to saving the financial economy! But now that we are faced with a health and real economic mega-crisis, we see from the European Union a mixture of absence, slowness and helplessness. That too will be to be assessed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Think of those who have equated progress with globalisation! I don't think there's a few people who've been caught up in this mistake. Now the globalization is expression of vulnerability, vulnerability and risk of infection – in the truest sense of the word. Those who have always spoken about regionality, small space, a certain degree of comprehensibleness and, above all, self-sufficiency are likely to feel confirmed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Think of the caputt saving in many areas: for example, the caputt saving in health care, the closure of hospitals, the caputt saving in the safety field, whether it be the police or the Austrian federal army! All these measures, which were adopted at the time, a few years ago, and which have been carried out for a long time, are now in revenge. We fight against two diseases at the same time, we fight almost on two fronts: We are fighting the health risk, of course, especially for the vulnerable groups that we need to protect and isolate – we do not know today whether at some point a change of strategy will be necessary in the fight against the crisis – and, of course, we are also fighting for the maintenance of normal medical operations. However, we are also fighting an economic disease, which will be at least as dangerous and as harmful and at least as sustainable as the health crisis. If you're from the The number of over 80 000 unemployed in a few days' hearing needs to become apprehensive and fearful if this is going on in this dynamic. In this fight, one must not happen to us, and that is that we ourselves make ourselves victims of the economic disease through measures that we take, because they are necessary to keep the health situation under control. This must not happen, and for that we must go new ways, for that we must make great throws, for that we must throw all the old overboard, which does nothing good. – With some exceptions: The structure of power and control, which is substantial for democracy, cannot be thrown overboard, and this Parliament plays a very crucial role. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] It must not be thrown overboard anything that has to do with our fundamental and freedom rights. Every single measure must be well thought out, well-informed, and we need a system of control in every form of intervention. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] To defeat both diseases is our common responsibility, and the motto must be: Failure is forbidden – as is the case with those outside, as we meet here, who hold the position. It also applies to: They must not fail – despite lack of protective equipment in hospitals, in ordinations, in old and care facilities, in supermarkets, in banks, in transport, in cleaning workers, wherever they have direct, direct contact with our fellow citizens. They all have relatives, they all have parents, many of them are fathers and mothers themselves, and in addition to their enormous labour load, the concern is their constant companion. I just point out that these heroes, of which so often the talk is about, are precisely those who often rank lower in the area of incomes, and this should also make us all thinkful. Ladies and gentlemen, the failure is forbidden for those who are now breaking their heads day and night about how they will not only bring themselves and their families, but also their businesses and their employees to the rounds, as they will survive the next few weeks. For them too, failure is forbidden. That's where we get into the game. That is also the reason why we are taking this second package with necessary measures today, with measures to help resolve this equation, which consists of incredibly many unknowns, piece by piece and replace the unknown with known and safe. This package today is an implementation package for what we have already set in motion at our last session. It is a matter of putting this 4 billion euros, which was spoken of a few days ago, in motion. To this end, there are some adjustments to deadlines, a kind of mobilization and flexibilization in the health field that is necessary. One thing, however, is not this package: It is not the great amount of real money that it would actually need to help quickly the really immediate and particularly concerned. We told you a few days ago that these 4 billion euros – including 1 billion euros for so-called emergency aid in this special pot – are too few. That's how you try to clear an Australian bushfire with the water load of a single plane. It was foreseeable that this was too little. You have not listened to our proposal. I still don't understand why. We could have moved more together. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: (shaking the head) No!]] This also prompts me to address an open word to you in general, in particular to the representatives of the Federal Government and the government parties: Where people are at work, it is a matter of course that mistakes are made, none of us are free – but the decisive thing is to learn from it. That's why I'm asking you: Let's not pretend to show mistakes as unnecessary or obnoxious nörgelei! Let's not qualify it as a better knowledge! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] It's really something completely different: It is the only way to prevent and avoid similar mistakes and their negative consequences for the future – provided that insight and knowledge are required. There is no other possibility. [[Abg. Stögmüller: You have always taught us...!]] I very much regret that, for the time being, for the time being, amendments to the opposition, all of which are formulated with much consideration and with the best of conscience and with the greatest commitment to the matter, do not even take into account the sparks of one. I imagine a different national shoulder closure on this question, Mr. Bundeskanzler! [[It was in favour of FPÖ and SPÖ, as well as Neos representatives.]] These days all look for Italy. The mayor of Bergamo has given a “spiegel” interview, and in this “spiegel” interview he is actually making a dramatic appeal to all other countries. He says: Take advantage of the time you have left! – It’s always about the factor time. It is about not repeating the mistakes made by Italy in dealing with this virus, and the main mistake has been to have reacted too slowly and too partially. That is exactly what I blame you for criticizing the salami tactics of the Federal Government in the fight against crisis. I hope that Austria has put its action fast enough and comprehensively enough. A look at Ischgl alone and things that have happened there sometimes conveys a slightly different picture to me. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, understand my words as a request, as an incentive for concern and care for the health of the population, the survival of the economy and the survival of thousands of jobs! Leave – or no, we immediately leave this system of work and salami tactics together and a certain inconsistency! It will be better for all of us if we decide to do so. Shutdown – yes, of course, but then quite and not a place for place and valley for valleyship, because later we land at a point at which we have to cover the whole of it; not first a border and then the next and then a few days later close the next border again, which allows you to continue coming in to Austria and distributing this virus, but all! This also applies to flight connections: not a few more and then a few more, but to those who are concerned with passenger transport and who are not necessarily necessary to maintain the transport of goods! Special aid and financial support for affected companies and workers – yes, of course, but this 4-billion euro package is stuffed before it has been decided at all! This has been far too little and has had a negative effect; the entrepreneurs who can count have divided it once: How many of those concerned are there, what remains of these 4 billion euros of respect for me of this 1 billion euros? – This uncertainty alone has already led to the speeding up of the number of unemployed in these few days, as we must now experience. Car the big throw! Let us give a job guarantee – it has already been addressed – and we create legal claims! This creates security and it is fairer than these different ways of access, which we now have to experience in part. Make it almost unbureaucratic, and do not create a bureaucratic effort to degradate those involved into bitters! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Security created! ...I think so too!]] That goes a lot, much easier, there are many examples for that. We have formulated them in our requests. Communicate a lot! Yes, that's good and important, but communicate from a cast and don't communicate contradictoryly! – I can only remind you that it was said there will be no starting limit – and then they were there. I can only recall what Tohuwabohu has been about the children of divorce and the rights of visit, and I can only remind you that no one knows to this day whether he is allowed to enter a park or not. Much to communicate is good then when uniform and clear communication is communicated, otherwise less is more! And yes, start getting through too! Where incorrigible people are not willing to make their contribution to curb the spread of this virus, get through! But not only do you do this with the little ones, but you also get through where, as we already know, there has been a very massive failure in crisis management, because some have believed that it must be directed at the expense of the general public! – And with that, I'm back to what happened in Ischgl. To punish and allow the little ones to steal from responsibility, that will create evil blood and is not a constructive contribution to a good future. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians are strong, they hold out a lot. They are willing to purchase kidnappings and make their personal contribution. Let us thank them through a consistent, sustainable and coherent policy, through consistent actions and through clarity and honesty in our communication! To me, I tell you quite honestly, my home is too bad for mistakes made by others to be repeated.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3501	The next item is Mrs Elisabeth Götze's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3522	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Call at the SPÖ – in the direction of the German chancellor, who leaves the hall in short –: This one is right now!]] [[Abg. Lightness: That's it with the chancellor!]] Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of your screens! The corona crisis is a huge challenge for all: for the workers, the workers – the people who now have to work under difficult conditions under high pressure, but also for those who fear their work – and also for the entrepreneurs. These have already been addressed and I would like to address them in particular now on what measures are being taken for them. This picture has already been shown by colleagues Wöginger, but I would like to show it again because we are really pioneers in Europe. [[keeping a section of the panel in height, on which, in the background of a red and white-red flag, the volumes of the individual auxiliary packages are listed]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's cut off!]] 38 billion euros we take in order to help quickly, quickly and unbureaucratically – as we have heard from all previous speakers today. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Unfortunately not!]] We are responding to the situation and are trying to help quickly and unbureaucratically, and I am going to address it. The Minister of Finance has said that we must “do what is necessary” – and we are now doing so. What support is there? – In short, I would like to mention the short work because this is really a new, great support model and gives companies the opportunity to continue their employees at almost no cost, only if they really continue to work. And by the way, this short work will also be available to apprentices. This is new, this is a innovation that seems very important to me. Second point: All tax payments, social security payments are paid unbureaucratically. We've heard that's going to be done very quickly. Thirdly, a very important issue: Maintaining the payment capacity of companies. The SME Funding Act, which we decide to do so today, is initially – I say consciously – spent on 1 billion euros. I also believe that this will not be enough, that we will need more, but it is now available quickly. We will decide 1 billion euros and, if necessary, we will be able to retrofit. We therefore give the Minister of Finance the opportunity - - apologise! The SME Funding Act is not worth EUR 1 billion, but it allows the Minister of Finance to decide autonomously by regulation how much he will do in order to give companies bridge guarantees for loans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] That is, every entrepreneur, every entrepreneur can go to the home bank and almost gets from the state the responsibility for this credit – quickly, unbureaucratically, without any evidence. Who's going to wrap it up? – The AWS and the ÖHT. These are the institutions that companies have been dealing with so far, so I believe that this will make a good and quick solution possible. These were three points, the fourth one is still missing, and that is the point that, from my point of view, is now very important and has to be taken into account quickly: the so-called hardness fund for entrepreneurs who have no income but need it for their livelihood, for the continuation of their operations. These include, in particular, small enterprises, individual companies, new self-employed people, free employees, and non-profit organisations. Who is this? – I am reading about whom I have been asked who currently has revenue losses or no revenue: Hairdresser, free speaker/free lecturer, hostess, student, logopaedin, carpenter, car workshop, bicycle workshop, physiotherapist, masseur, musician, cabaretist, ergotherapist – the list goes on endlessly. But what's very important is: We support companies, whether they are taxable or not, and we support them – I think there was a miscommunication – whether they are members of the Chamber of Commerce or not. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, but also those who are not members must go to the Chamber now! That is exactly what shows the absurdity of the resolution about the chamber!]] This information will not be passed on correctly – that is also my information – but that must be so. They are all supported, whether or not they are members. We can discuss this afterwards. The proceedings are carried out through the Chamber of Commerce, which is correct, but that does not mean that the Chamber of Commerce will only serve its own members. The background is that the other funding organisations – I have called AWS and ÖHT – have already been used up, the Ministry of Finance is busy with support requests and therefore the Chamber of Commerce is taking over this part, which in my view is a quick, pragmatic solution – and it will work. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Then you would have solved it differently!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I'm also glad that there's a concrete number inside. I said 1 billion euros earlier: This is the one billion euro we are talking about here, which is at first available and which can be increased if more is needed. What is also to be said: Our goal is also to support young entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs, namely – very important! – fast and unbureaucratic. That means: On Monday the framework conditions must stand and next week is already paid out. It's got to work that way. That's what I'm done with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3645	Next speaker: Ms. Meinl-Reisinger, president of the club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3667	Madam President. Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor has already left. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister of Foreign Affairs and Highly Honored Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! It is also very important for me and I would like to stress this again at this point: Parliament's ability to act is something very important in a democracy. [[He welcomed NEOS and SPÖ, as well as representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I believe that we could not explain to anyone out there – those who just have to serve because they are system-relevant, totally regardless of whether they are exposed to a risk – that we are pressing ahead with the responsibility we have in this Republic, namely to be legislation. That's why I'm glad we put this sign today. It has, of course, been said a lot about the drama of the situation – challenge I find almost a bit too beautiful. It is a dramatic situation in which we are as a whole country. I would also like to say quite clearly to my group that we are, of course, contributing to the drastic decisions, the drastic measures that have now been taken, because health is a priority, within the framework of this national closure. This is a matter of course. I would like to say this very clearly once again: Please stay home! [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: (nicking) Exactly!]] This is very important for risk groups to protect older people in order to protect people with pre-diseases and above all to take care of them – it is obviously not possible to repeat often enough – that the curve does not rise so steeply that we reach and go beyond the capacity limits of our health system. I'm worried we're doing this. We all hope that it will not happen and that we will not put unnecessary lives at risk, which can be saved when appropriate intensive medical care and also breathing – it is sometimes quite simple – are available. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: Exactly!]] Health has priority, but soon after that, it's all about everything. This is what Sepp Schellhorn said this week in a guest comment. It is about workers – and we have heard the dramatic number – who have already lost their job. It is about workers who are afraid of their job. It is about parents who are concerned that in the self-organisation it is not only extremely difficult to teach children the learning material, but that children may lose a whole year this year, because they cannot pick it up. It is a question of companies that have to close up, in part, in front of the sharps of their previous business. And it is actually about entrepreneurs having naked fear of their existence. It's all about everything! From one day to the next, everything in Austria stood still – not all, not system-related, but much in Austria. Everything had to stand still from one day to the next. It has also been a political decision that we support. Why do I say that? – Trade is still in large parts, gastronomy is still, tourism is still. These are those who are directly affected. There are then still a number of indirectly affected companies, by indirectly affected companies. It's attracting more and more circles! We said this on Sunday, I say it again at this point: In such a time of great Insecurity needs clarity! That is, I understand, if there is the demand – both for workers and for the company – for clarity as regards the construction industry as far as the construction industry is concerned, how this can be handled on the construction sites and so on and so on. Clearness is very important. However, these circles of the indirectly concerned will continue to move. We also hear that parts of industry are beginning, at least production for one to two weeks to stop. It is therefore necessary to say clearly at this point: It affects the entire economy! It is not just the Austrian economy, it is affecting the whole European economy, it is actually affecting the entire global economy and economy. You have to see what dramas this has and can have. I would like to say something quite clearly at this point, because I understand the different views – depending on what kind of group of interests one represents, employees, employers – of course, no question, but: We're all sitting in the same boat. The workers are sitting in the same boat as the employers, who are in most cases, and I really must say that there is no desire to release their employees now or to change them to short-time work because they simply want to maintain their business because they want to operate. We're all sitting in the same boat; that's very important to me to say here. The measures are also drastic in terms of the limitation of our freedom – it has already been mentioned – and we, as NEOS, as a political group, in particular, pay great attention to what these measures mean to restrict personal freedom. I think, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you said it shouldn't be, or it won't come so far that a police officer is running behind everyone to control what he's doing. [[Vice chancellor Kogler nodds.]] I don't think it should come so far that we live in a country where a police officer is running behind everyone to control what he or she is doing. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] That must have an expiry date! That is why I say quite clearly, because it is very important not to get used to the fact that it is natural to restrict its freedoms in such a way that it is not anchored in the minds and we do not wake up in a few months at once and say: The open society, which has brought us so much freedom, is lost at once! because it has become so deep inside that we are willing at any time to restrict these freedoms as soon as only the least – now it is not small, I really want to emphasize – concern for health exists. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Kogler.]] We have already said on the weekend that it takes dramatic and extraordinary measures, including to protect the economy and businesses, in order to catch this up. Again: These establishments, which were directly affected, had to be locked. It is very important that the confidence of the economy, the trust of small and medium-sized enterprises, the trust of individuals, the confidence of the freelances and self-employed are not shaken. That's why it was so important to stress on the weekend that these 4 billion euros were not enough and perhaps even a false signal, because those who are concerned have already heard on the weekend that this is far too little that this is far too bureaucratic and takes too long. This has actually led to too much more uncertainty than you – and I think so – had actually planned with a fast package. In any case, these were the reports we received, namely that everyone could calculate that 4 billion euros will not be enough if everything is to be done from Monday. We said on the weekend that it needs the approach whatever it takes. I am therefore very grateful that the Federal Government also said on Wednesday: “It costs what it wants” – this is all the more so than we now know that the ECB and Europe have already made clear what it has done and, in this sense, also made liquidity available, will put budget rules out of effect et cetera. That is to say, there will be action, and it is the State's obligation to apply this approach whatever it takes in fact. I would like to stress once again: We simply have different views on measures, yes, but on the way to them, where we support the economy. We had an epidemic law that would have provided for a clear compensation claim for the establishments that were being closed. On last Sunday we put this out of control and said: You no longer have a claim, you can now be supported! But that means that we already have a few, and also the little ones – for whom we would still want to save it – said: From now on, you'll be bitters! This access to equal rights for all is now lost to an application for funding that anyone can make for as long as the money is sufficient and if it can be handled in a bureaucratic manner. - I don't like that. [[Call:Know...]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I now come to the point regarding the implementation of the hardness fund, which we see very critically, which is so important for the individual companies, for the self-employed, for the freelances, for the non-profit organizations. Of course, we have already understood that this can be done just as well through the Chamber of Commerce, but the Chamber of Commerce is not actually responsible for these professional groups, and this shows the absurdity of the resolution about them. If on the one hand it would have been possible to automatically push forward tax charges by law, so as to relieve the financial offices – that was our proposal – so that this is not bureaucratic, and on the other hand you hear how great they are working and that the three times as many employees have, then we do not understand why this is now being handled through the Chamber of Commerce – all the more so than it has to come to the data it is working with; and it has to take care of professional groups with which she has not had anything to do until now. [[Complementary with the NEOS and with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ]] The Chamber of Commerce is doing great things, it's a service facility, but it's not a promotion. It does not correspond to what we as a Parliament need to be able to exercise control accordingly. It is not transparent, one cannot see how much one could do if that were to be done through the financial offices. The great concern – I'm just giving you – is that one says about this equal access, that each company says: I'm getting a compensation, coming to a situation that is really a bureaucracy sample. What you have created or will create here is a Four-to-Five-Stop-Shop [[Abg. Schellhorn: Six!]] It's the AMS, it's the AWS, it's the ÖHT, it's the control bank, it's now also the Economic Chamber, and it's the financial offices – these are more – to which you turn; not every entrepreneur everywhere, but in principle these are the contact points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn:... Mrs. Schramböck!]] Just as in the health field, for good reason, to ensure confidence and to say: we act!, said there are two telephone numbers – one, if one suspects that one is sick, and one for general information – it would have been important to create trust, to drive this very line of support for the businesses. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: But that is already inconspicuous!]] Two telephone numbers – from me the financial office and another funding agency or the AMS – and that was it; that would have been possible and important. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say again: Whoever helps a company now helps quickly and unbureaucratically, does not build bureaucracy samples and above all helps workers, so we do not agree with this way. Of course, we NEOS will vote in third reading, because this shoulder closure is important and these measures and also these sums are of course important, but please believe me: We don't find the way good enough. We really think this is too bureaucratic. Let me say one last thing: I think it's very essential now to think about what happens after that. How and when can we get out of this lockdown without risking the health of people in Austria or Europe? An economist said: This is not a shock that concerns an industry, it is not a shock that concerns only a regional area, but it is a symmetrical shock to the whole economy. This is similar to a heart attack, which is whether it takes 3 seconds or 3 minutes; and then it really gets bad. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Kogler.]] That means: Then, with the shoulder closure, please ensure that the steps to get out of there are well prepared, because it is about health, but after that it is all about it! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3859	Ms Margarete Schramböck spoke next. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3880	Madam President. High house! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. But above all: Dear Austrians! The Austrian economy suffers, so as an economic minister, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who are often invisible, who are not seen working in the background. It is those who maintain the productions in the farms, it is those who drive the trucks that bring our goods. They're the ones in the stores so we can buy food. It is those who organize logistics. And it is also those that we do not see, namely in the thousands, thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, which ensure that it continues, and the daily ensure that the production chains and also the support chains are maintained for the Austrian population. – Thank you very much for that! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Amesbauer.]] The Austrian companies have a very difficult time. It is the most difficult time most of them have ever experienced, and it is the question of whether someone is here helping them. We are here to help and help them quickly. That is why we have quickly imposed this package of 38 billion euros, 4 billion of which are the emergency aid package. In addition, there are guarantees, there are tax charges, there are many ways to proceed accordingly, such as the corona short work, individually tailored to the individual operation. We make this EUR 38 billion available because we know that it is serious because we know that this situation is difficult and the entrepreneurs and their employees have great concerns. That is why there are many different ways to support it – only one within the scope of the 38 billion euros is the hardness fund. This hardness fund allows all those who do not take the other measures that fall through this network to receive direct payments. These payments must not be taxed, nor will they have to be repaid. This hardening fund will help those who are particularly small; these are the Austrian micro-enterprises, especially family businesses, individuals, self-employed, all those who suffer because we are not economically well at the moment. This EUR 1 billion is directly available for this purpose. Just in these minutes, the teams sit together and work on how we can bring as soon as possible this money, these resources, this support to these companies, to these micro-enterprises and the EPUs. It's important that it's easy, and it's important that it's fast. That's why the teams are currently working high pressure on it. It also needs guarantees, support; if you go to the house bank, if you need liquidity, then you need this support with guarantees. These guarantees are already available. I have just talked to the AWS responsible for SMEs. Those responsible there tell me, within 48 hours, in some cases within 24 hours, they are able to make these guarantees available. It's important that we're fast, it's important that we're unbureaucratic. It is also important that we look at those groups that support us. Here the apprentices are an important concern: There are 100 000 apprentices out there who are in help businesses where they can. My great thanks to these apprentices, my great thanks to you for being there, that you help in food production, that you help in the food trade, that you are at the place where you are used as young people – thanks to you! [[As a result of this, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to the following areas: Bernhard.]] As our Federal Chancellor has already said: “It costs what it wants” – we will help, we will be there. This requires different means and different possibilities. I would also like to remind entrepreneurs in Austria that there is a single hotline. There is a hotline for entrepreneurs that we have set up together at the Chamber of Commerce. Since other entrepreneurs may also call, no one will be rejected. But, of course, there are different organisations that are specialized in the field of guarantees, in the field of short-time work, which help quickly, as quickly as possible. It is important that we take the right steps together, that we help unbureaucratically and quickly, and that we make the money available. I can assure you: These funds are available. If more is needed, we will be on the side of the companies and their employees. We'll be there. We'll help. We're already starting with it, it's already started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3947	Mr Rudolf Anschober has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e3972	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people who, regardless of where born, live in this wonderful land! In the last 14 days, the situation in Austria – not only here, indeed throughout Europe – has developed very dramatically. From a regional epidemic in China, a global pandemic with everything that unfortunately belongs to it. Europe is in the epicenter of this pandemic, with serious, partly dramatic increases in cases of disease, partly also as regards the deaths. It caught Italy the worst, for very different reasons. It's too early to experience that in detail, but if you look at the numbers with me a little bit and maybe sometimes see the pictures, the pictures of destruction, despair, the exaggeration of a really very good health system, as it was and exists in Lombardy, so it's almost imperceptible and tangible what's happening there. There are 400 to 500 dead per day – alone coronatote. There is a structure of intensive beds that is used up to the last place, de facto up to the last centimeter and overloaded; that is, there is no room for additional patients next to it. A traffic accident in Lombardy, a stroke in Lombardy, a heart attack in Lombardy – such patients are de facto no longer to treat because there has been a complete overload and overload of this hospital structure. We need to know that behind these figures – numbers are dry – there are fates behind which people who are torn out of life are also desperate relatives, friends, friends and many more, many others that are not even seen in statistics. What we are trying to do with all our strength is to avoid such a situation of overload, the oversupply of our hospital system in Austria – of course. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I am truly grateful that in this situation, an absolute crisis situation, we have unity in our country – unity between the parties, unity in the government, unity with the federal states, unity with our Federal President; that is, we are drawing on a line. This is de facto the only opportunity that we have, therefore also thanks for the very rapid processing and decision-making of what we need legistically to take the necessary steps together. We had the situation ten days ago that there was a daily increase of saying and writing 40 percent in the new diseases. Imagine with me only once, where this curve would have led into what short stages if it had been continued that way – dramatic! I say to you that the time when this hospital system would no longer have been able to cope with this development would have been relatively close. 40 percent increase in cases of disease per day, that would have been too much. The good news is: The measures are beginning to work. We have the situation today that we are in 2 400 diseases. There are 77 patients in hospital treatment plus 14 in intensive medical treatment. What comes now is actually also a positive aspect, namely that of these 2,400 people 2 317 are in treatment at home because they have a very, very mild disease history. That's good. That's a positive signal. This is a hope factor given in Austria. These are well over 90 percent who do not need hospital treatment in this acute situation. This is how the development in Austria looks [[keeping a graphic in height with the title “Lageupdate, 20.03.2020, 08:00”]] The curve is still too steep. It continues to go too steeply up, even if we have now extended this duration of two and a half days to four and a half days. This is a start of a trend change, but we are still far from the goal. We must move forward, we must continue this path, which is right, very, very, very consistently, so that we can actually achieve our objective. Now I come to a good curve and to a good graphic that I brought you and you [[another graphic showing an increasing blue curve as well as yellow columns, holding to the height]] Here you can see the development of absolute numbers – that is the blue curve – and this is the trend development in terms of daily growth rates. [[pointing to the yellow columns]] You see here at first glance, I think, we are now at just under 20 percent daily growth; that is, the trend is right. If we continue this course consistently now, I very much hope that in the next few days we will gradually move towards 10 percent and below 10 percent. Our aim must be to enable us to get to the single-digit area until Easter, because then our hospital system will certainly be able to survive this development and ensure that patients in Austria who need it can actually be treated in all areas. This is actually my favorite graphics, which has nothing to do with the blue pillars getting smaller and smaller, but that has to do with the fact that the disease rates are falling. [[Keeping a table with a column diagram and the title “Average daily increase over 4 days each”]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] You see here the “average daily increase over 4 days each” – which is a significant value – and here we see how this number moves downwards. That's gratifying and that's very, very positive. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But we must not be tempted to say: Okay, now we're on the right track, that's it now! – If we did, we would have a flash immediately, we would immediately have a massive development up. That is exactly what we want and need to avoid, and to do so we need every individual and every individual. I know this is what we are saying, but we have to take this 4.5 percent, which is not yet involved in everything that can destroy us, with us – I am right for all those who have formulated it in their speeches – so that they can support us and so that they can actually contribute to this project for the safety of Austria. – These are the measures. The second large part is the question of protecting the hospitals. The protection concept for the hospitals is an extremely important one, because after my prophecy we will not get the problems if we get them first in the area of bed capacity, we will not get them first in the area of equipment, but our topic is hospital staff, because this is acutely threatened. Every single case of illness can cause us to close entire departments and thus the system has less power and less capacity that we need in the next few weeks. There is actually only one solution – and it pleased me that from Klubobmann Kickl to Mrs. Klubobfrau all actually formulated unisono: Cohesion in this country. At that hour, cohesion is needed – that is what makes us strong, that is what brings us through this crisis, and that is what we really need. Each individual and every individual in this country is part of the solution, can be part of the solution and must be part of the solution! Yeah, that's the situation. We will, of course, make an evaluation after the crisis. Now I come to see Klubobmann Kickl: Yes, of course, in every acute situation – regardless of whether it is a company or a party, whether it is the Republic – errors are made in an acute tension. In this case too, mistakes will happen and mistakes have already happened. However, my appeal is in this situation: Let us make a broad, merciless, transparent evaluation of this process after the crisis! I am the first to be there because we also learn from mistakes that we show that we do not come under the carpet. This is the decisive thing: We need to get stronger! This means, for example, that we need to become independent in the supply of protective clothing. I think it is a violation of globalisation if we do not control these central security issues and do not direct them. This must be an essential consequence of this crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4075	Next speaker: Mrs Michaela Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4096	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! ==References== We shall adopt a set of judicial measures that are necessary and will help protect the rule of law, keep the rule of law, and will contribute to the further functioning of institutions. We have, for example, changed the priorities under which the rule of law is normally made, in so far as it is always a great commitment to us to keep procedures as short as possible to deal with procedures quickly. Today, the top priority is to protect lives, save people from dying. This is the highest ceiling in this judicial bundle. I should like to introduce a few measures to this effect. We are all called upon to avoid personal social contacts as much as possible and to limit our paths to the most necessary. For example, in order to help in case someone is ill that someone cannot make his way, we have led to the interruption of deadlines. What does that mean? – Of course, we say that all party rights must continue to be respected. With this period of interruption until 30. April is possible to you after this 30. April on matters that you cannot now worry about, in judicial, procedural matters such as civil proceedings, extradition proceedings, basic book, company book, insolvency or execution, applications – i.e. from 1. May, nothing happens before that, everything is rightful. The same applies also to administrative deadlines between the administrative authorities and the administrative courts. For example: You get a negative decision from a court, four weeks term – that is, it's enough if you're starting from 1. In May the following four weeks, arrange your affairs accordingly. The Federal Minister also gives us the opportunity, if, because of the coronavirus situation, it is necessary to extend the deadline once again, to do so with the authorisation of regulations. In case you think you have not been justifiably terminated or released, and you want to challenge this, we have introduced a temporary inhibition. That is, the time limit is now inhibited and runs only from 1. May on again. This is very important to preserve your rights, valued fellow citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because of this difficult situation, that people are together in a narrow space, that one cannot go outside, there can be violent situations. When it comes to violence in the family – this is very important to us, because quarantine is not a legal space – all the possibilities you have are running: The police will be at the scene and will be dealt with with with with with with with a lot of hardness against these criminals. There will continue to be directions and bans. There is a judicial service. Even if our dishes have now gone down to a minimum, the judges work from home. You'll always have these possibilities. We have set up a bundle of measures for our entrepreneurs. I think the most important thing is the so-called insolvency brake. That is, you can, if it catch you so to speak, and you need to register an insolvency, do so within 120 days instead of as before 60 days. However, I believe that the most important thing is that the funding measures that we can support with the various funds will help you to avoid insolvency, precisely these support measures that we will decide on today. If you apply for it and you have a longer period of time, you may have the chance to get out of this insolvency. I would like to express my highest praise here at this point in our Federal Minister and your Directorate-General for Criminal Enforcement, because in our judicial institutions – the prisoners in the prisons cannot go out, and our judicial guards practice their activities in the narrowest place, in this close association. from – social Distancing just doesn't work. There have already been very, very timely all measures: from restricted visiting contacts to the possibility of completely exposing visits, discs have been provided. I believe that this is a best-practice example for the whole of Europe, namely, as we very, very early in setting up in our judicial institutions measures in the sense of the judicial guard and the inmates. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We are all extremely demanded at this time – all those who have contributed, since I really mean everyone in this House, all those who have participated in the ministries, in the legal system, but also the experts who have advised us, lawyers, notaries, stakeholders, support staff, judicial staff, legal officers, all those who have thought and helped, to consider how this bundle of measures should best look, because we have tried to put these things under these very difficult conditions, that the personal contacts are not possible to finish. I would simply like to thank all of you – for the opposition parties, for the employees here in the House, for the parliamentary management for all the work done here and for the best possible precision. Thank you, thank you. We want to get out of this crisis as soon as possible. The figures and the pictures that you, Mr Minister, have shown us give us a silent picture of hope. My request is: Ladies and gentlemen, continue to stick to the measures, because only in this way will we be able to keep the rule of law good and best to you through the judicial measures! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4175	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4196	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! A manageable Parliament – we have already heard it, and I also believe that in difficult times it is really crazy, insanely important that there are simply certain constants –: I think we have shown last weekend, but also this week definitely that this is the case – also thanks to the employees here in Parliament; one has not seen it, but while the members of the Federal Government have spoken, everything has been disinfected again. So we are really looking at the fact that this is just a good thing here, that we also adhere to the safety regulations, to the hygiene measures so that we can continue to be effective and react when further measures are needed. On the part of our group, I should like to focus briefly on three different topics: The first topic – our club wife Pamela Rendi-Wagner has already addressed it – is the realization of the tasks under the Epidemic Law. It is about the need for clear and clear responsibilities and simply a common foreign language, including for workers who are currently keeping the company running outside, in health facilities or also in trade et cetera. There is simply a need for uniform measures, because these people keep the operation running outside, and that is a good thing – a great thank you for that! We really have to do with a global crisis – at home in Upper Austria, across Germany, across Europe. Today we heard in the morning in the “Morgenjournal” that The United States is now also heavily affected. Therefore, it also needs a clear language internationally, a person who can coordinate and speak for us externally. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution, because from our point of view, the Federal Minister has this responsibility: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request also deals with a whole, very important and central issue, namely the issue of violence. We listen to every debate on violence here in the House: The most dangerous are their own four walls. – Especially in a time like now, families are exposed to stress, perhaps due to economic bottlenecks – we have heard of the unemployment figures earlier, that is really dramatic – due to spatial narrowness, due to these measures that have been set up at present. This is a very dramatic situation. The victim protection institutions have therefore also held a press conference and have called for more financial commitments to be made to strengthen the women's helpline and all of these facilities. It is good that the Federal Government has also responded in this area. It is important and right that there is an increase. However, we are unfortunately missing some key points, for example a central coordination body, which, among other things, ensures rapid and up-to-date information for consultants in the advisory bodies, and also the permanent financial security of women's and men's advisory services. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So we simply have to think out of this acute situation, sharpen the vision and work very intensively, together with the federal states and NGOs, to create more places for women's homes, for example, and so on. We must assume our responsibility as a Federation and ensure financial security in this area. I therefore also propose a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thematic area three related to action package for NGOs and non-profit organisations: The main issue is that on the one hand a rescue shield is very important for companies – we also stand on that, so there is this cross-group shoulder closure – but on the other hand we also say: NGOs and non-profit associations must not be forgotten. The current unemployment rate will also reduce the volume of donations. The organisations often have no reserves, so we have to see that there is a guarantee for them that this will also help the around a quarter of the workforce working in this area. This is about rescue and disaster relief services, which are simply working 365 days a year for us. I therefore also propose a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that we have to consider further points in the long term. This concerns, for example, the loss of aid to young people at universities, which is the financing of audit activities. et cetera. This crisis will continue to concern us beyond the next few months. Please we also work together constructively! Proposals of the opposition continue to be observed! I think it is important that we look in the long term at the fact that we don't let anyone down and that we show an shoulder closure. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:26]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4536	All three motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported. The applications have been properly submitted and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Harald Stefan, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4561	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State, Minister of State! The measures taken by the COVID-19 Act have already changed society in an unexpected way. Unimaginable restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights have been imposed, principles of the Constitution such as the division of powers have been largely eliminated. It is therefore vital that those responsible to whom powers have now been conferred should exercise their activities with the greatest possible degree of attention. In another context, the elegance – I believe – has been spoken of by the Constitution. A very essential point in the Constitution is that there is always a balancing power. It was once discussed what role the Federal President actually had. It was noted that the Federal President, the Legislative and the Executive in a balance, in a triangle of It's supposed to be power to stand. It is therefore incredibly important that we here as Parliament exercise this control now, at a time when power is largely delegated to the government in the form of regulations. That is a very essential principle. We know from the past that transferred political or economic power is gladly extended in the long term. A typical example is the measures taken in 2008 during the financial crisis. What has been transferred to the ECB is still in force, although it was actually only intended in the short term. Twelve years later, these measures are still in force. It is therefore a very essential point to ensure that it is clear that the very extraordinary measures taken in an emergency situation, as we are now doing, will have an end when the emergency is over. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] It is therefore decisive that all these measures are temporary and automatically terminated at a given time. This is now God’s thanks also in the draft laws that we decide today. I also recognise the government's efforts in the field of justice, which are being made to respond to the particular situation. We heard it, the justice, the courts went down to a large extent. It is of course also in the right-wing area and so on very little going. It is therefore a very delicate question of how to deal with this situation. In particular, it is important to see how deadlines continue. I am therefore glad that they have dealt with this – we have also called for it. Procedural time-limits will now be 30. In April 2020, other deadlines will be suspended until 30.4.2020. I say so deliberately, because there is a difference and, according to our understanding, it would have been better to interrupt all deadlines until 30.4.2020. - I'm trying to explain this briefly. Interrupting means that a deadline – in this case on 30.4. – to re-run again, i.e. a completely clear system; Inhibition means that the deadline is now interrupted. That means she's already had a certain duration, now she's interrupted and runs on 30. April on again. In other words, you must have in mind exactly how many days of the deadline at the time of the law's entry into force – most likely today – have already expired and how many days you still have. This is quite complicated, and it is not quite certain whether it is necessary to extend the time limit beyond the 30.4.; that is, there will be an even greater uncertainty. We have not enforced this opinion. I therefore hope that the courts will also appreciate the fact that, when the measures have ended or that this inhibition has ended, there is uncertainty and perhaps some time-limit will be overlooked. It is important to me today to point out that we are aware of what is happening to us. In any case, a particularly delicate point is the empowerment of regulations – that is exactly what I meant earlier with the elimination of the division of powers. That is to say, we are passing on rights or competences to the Parliament, to ministers, to the executives, and these regulatory powers go very far. In this case, things that would necessarily have to do with the legislative system in the event of a genuine division of powers will be transferred to the Minister of Justice. Now, for example, the business distribution of courts can be changed – a very delicate point, because one could arbitrarily assign which judges are responsible – it can be suspended – in other words, things that would not, in normal circumstances, be held before the European Court of Justice. Unfortunately, I have to end now because we only have a limited speaking time, and I believe that ultimately everyone wants to go home again – and they should also: We've heard, the most important thing is to stay home. However, it is also essential that there is clarity and simplicity for the economy, both for workers and for employers, safety, clarity and simplicity. We have therefore argued that the Epidemie Act should be applied because the very clear rules, namely a right to compensation and a right to compensation for earnings, would have guaranteed. The current measures do not: Applications must be made and funding agencies must approve and issue them. In our view, it is not the best solution, but we are confident that these measures will be taken. We will also contribute optimistically to these measures, and I am convinced that all the institutions are doing their best to minimise the negative consequences of the crisis. In this sense, we will carry out our task responsibly as a control and thus do our part to the national shoulder closure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4639	Next, Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4660	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Minister's bench! Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, in these very difficult times of the crisis, there are also happy news again and again. So today, for example, a friend of mine writes me and tells me – after calling me a few days ago and telling me that the short work model is very good, but unfortunately he has to tell me because of the fact that he has to pay social security contributions on the part of the service provider, that he does not see himself able to keep his employees and unfortunately have to cancel them, and I told him: Well, wait a little bit, I think there's a lot in motion! – that, fortunately, it does not have to cancel 200 employees, but can apply for short work for them. This is possible because, fortunately, the social partners and the government have responded very quickly and the regulation that the social security contributions will be taken over by the AMS in the future has finally been implemented jointly and this scheme will also be adopted today. On the one hand, I believe that this shows how flexible it will be, and on the other hand it also shows that the measures begin to work fortunately. On the problems that Mr Schellhorn has dealt with today: Yes, we will have to look at this, we need to fix it because we want the short-term model to be a model that works and is actually adopted by as many companies as possible in the interests of workers and employment. Yes, a lot of social partners have happened, for example, short work has also been enabled for apprentices, as has already been mentioned, and I am personally delighted – with all the criticism that can be exercised at the hard fund – that we have managed to bring even classically atypical employees – free employees, for example, new self-employed – and non-profit organisations – organizations that ultimately carry out very important tasks for society – into the hardness funds, so that they also get the support they need. As mentioned above, the non-profit sector is an area with 250 000 employees. Ten! This is also an economic sector whose organisations, of course, also have the right to apply for short work. However, those who have heard the “Morgenjournal” today, the gathering of a press conference at the poverty conference, also know that in reality we will still have a lot to do. At the press conference, the poverty conference also called for a hardness fund for vulnerable people, and also for a package of measures to be put forward, which should be done to ensure that this particularly vulnerable group, also living under the most precarious conditions, in the crisis. This is about issues relating to the prevention of delogging, and it is about questions such as whether it can be ensured that these people who are now increasingly affected by unemployment, who are more affected by poverty risk, are still adequately supplied with electricity and energy in the crisis. But this is also a question of how to apply for social assistance faster, easier and faster. I think it is also a great challenge for all of us not only to ensure business and employment as best we can, but also to ensure that people living under particularly precarious employment conditions, working conditions, living conditions among us are properly protected. And since it is not just a matter of appealing – I am also convinced that our Minister of Social Affairs is already on the radar, which could be done to prevent this crisis from becoming a particularly serious crisis for people living under particularly precarious and difficult conditions – I propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] It has been mentioned several times: We do not abandon anyone, this must also apply in particular to those people who are particularly vulnerable to poverty and who suffer from the crisis twice. In this sense, Mr Sozialminister, we are looking forward to those activities which are set up in this regard. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[16:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4810	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Nikolaus Scherak came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e4834	We today adopt very comprehensive amendments to this collective law, partly even constitutional amendments. A constitutional amendment to be adopted today concerns the question of how the Council of Ministers can meet. It is planned that the Council of Ministers will also be able to meet by video conference. This is something that does not bother me in principle; I think the Federal Government can continue to exchange by video conference, which is nothing negative. But what is annoying is that it is also intended to be possible to vote by video conference. To date, no one has been able to explain how I can document accordingly at a video conference, how Council of Ministers decisions take place. It should be stated that there is the possibility of a decision on circulation; that is, of course, that is the practice that has been applied. If you are currently doing a household insurance on the Internet, for example, you can easily do this with just a few clicks. That is why I do not know why we want such a comprehensive constitutional change – that is something fundamental, as well as voting by video conference. Accordingly, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As has been said, we are not going away from the basic rules we have in the federal constitution, but we are developing them at the highest possible level. What is also happening is that we – which has already been mentioned – will take on board very comprehensive restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights, as we give the Federal Government the opportunity to restrict fundamental and freedom rights. This is in principle very critical and very concerned. Especially when you look at what has unfortunately already happened in this context in the last few days, you have to take special care. On the one hand, we found the obvious data leak on the Coronavirus side of the Ministry of Health, as a lot of data could be read out. I am not an Internet expert, but when you read about it, you learn that many data, which also allow conclusions to be drawn on people's personal characteristics, have been legible. On the other hand, we have the data transmission by Telekom, which is supposed to be legal. I still don't quite understand, but it's about being able to represent comprehensive motion profiles. Telekom has objected and said that it is only about the profiles of groups of 20 or more people. But fact is, it's possible to do something like this. Especially in such difficult times, one must pay particular attention to the fact that these possibilities are not used for abuse. That's why it's so important that we have the corresponding Sunsetclauses in there. These have been incorporated afterwards, which I think is very positive, because it is clear that these measures must also be terminated. Mr Stefan has already mentioned that, unfortunately, it is very often the case that these measures, which are used in crisis cases, which normally only use authoritarian regimes outside of crisis situations – in crisis cases, they are necessary – remain. It is only the United States that has decided and enforced massive restrictions on fundamental and freedom rights under 9/11. All these restrictions are still in force because no one has thought they have to run out. This is guaranteed with the Sunsetclauses now. I would like to point out once again the great responsibility of the Federal Government: They may adopt measures that are comprehensive. I tell you quite honestly: Everything that is necessary, but not a millimeter! This is about the fundamental fundamental and freedom rights of the citizens of Austria, and you have to deal with them as carefully as possible! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Neos and Mr SPÖ as well as the members of the FPÖ and the Greens.]] It has been mentioned very often today by the national shoulder closure. There are two things that I do not know why there is no national epaulment. These are two issues addressed by the entire united opposition. Firstly, it is the question of why the Chamber of Commerce and not the financial authorities are granting the support. The other is the business space rental issue – we discussed it yesterday in the Budget Committee. There is a law, the ABGB, whose § 1104 provides that in the case of business space rental, no rental interest is to be paid if the business cannot be used due to disease. We have discussed this in a debate and we have discussed it in the Committee on Budgets. This is a big question, because quite a lot of entrepreneurs simply don't know whether this is true now, whether they have to pay their rent. We have sometimes heard different things in the debate, and I think it was very bad in the Committee on Budgets. Mr. Justice Minister, you said: Well, there are § 1104, there are § 1105, there are other paragraphs that may be used! So I am convinced that we do not have the task of taking legal lectures on the part of politics, but that we must clearly tell entrepreneurs in this country what this means for them. The few reserves that entrepreneurs still have in reality should not go on rent at the beginning of the next month. It must be made clear that the rental rate is not to be paid because we have the case of a disease. [[We welcome the NEOS and Mr Kickl and Mr Blimlinger.]] On her reply, Ms. Justice Minister, it is impossible to prejudge the independent courts: Yes, of course, it is not possible to prejudge the independent courts, but hopefully the Ministry of Justice has a clear legal stance, and if it is different, then we as legislators have to change something. In conclusion, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is totally irresponsible for Mrs Minister for Justice to sit down and say: We do not know what entrepreneurs must do at the end of the month, whether they have to pay the rental rate or not! – I consider it a duty on the part of politics to place a very clear sign here and to clarify the legal situation. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Amesbauer.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: That was an energetic speech now! Unusual energetic!]] [[16:46]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e5061	The amendment and the motion for a resolution have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e5088	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate women ministers! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I think it's good that we all work together. It is also critical of the matter, but I think it is easy to criticize if one does not have to do the work. I have to say, all the ministries involved, all ministers work under high pressure with their cabinets, the experts sit day and night. I think it's also worth a warm thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Even if we say great things: whatver it takes!, we already need a legal framework and also the relevant directives, ladies and gentlemen, and this also takes some time. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: And guidelines!]] Since we are talking so much about responsibilities today – whether the Chamber of Commerce can, yes or no – I would like to stress, in principle, that the Chamber of Commerce has highly qualified staff. [[Call the SPÖ: Nobody said that!]] The Chamber of Commerce has cared for entrepreneurs over the last few days over the hotline – 120 people work day and night and care for entrepreneurs – and we have had 600 000 access to the homepage on our own weekend. The Chamber of Commerce also deals with the promotion of apprentices, export promotion, the support programme for SMEs digitally, the Chambers of State are developing regional funding. I think – trust You're on it! – that the funding under the hardness fund will also be handled quickly and unbureaucratically, ladies and gentlemen. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] Mr Schellhorn, don't always say before, it won't work! I'm telling you, we're gonna do this and it's gonna work! Look, it's like we have clear responsibilities: The AMS is responsible for short work, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for tax charges, the AWS is responsible for liability and guarantees, the ÖHT is responsible for tourism. – So we see, there are individual areas, there it already works, and now another one is added. Ladies and gentlemen, we will see that we are bringing these 38 billion euros, which we need in order to safeguard jobs, the location and the security of businesses, to men and women in time unbureaucratic and fast. I would also like to mention one point that is going down a little bit today, namely the vocational training law, which we also decide today. This is equally important, because it is also a matter of making the teaching more attractive and safeguarding the skilled; Mrs Schramböck, who is a heart concern, thank you very much for moving this over the finish line. We're making the system more transparent. We therefore take the right measures to ensure that teaching works with Matura. We will take over 62 million euros over the next five years. I think that this too is a proper measure that we can now need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am now tabling an amendment to this draft law which is a little longer: [[Quoted print version removed]] This one for apprenticeship training. I would also like to make one more amendment tabled by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Sigrid Maurer, Mr BA, Mr President, on the whole of the 2nd Chamber. COVID-19 Act, TOP 2, which I would like to explain only in the key points. At the outset, this is about editorial and technical changes. To Article 14: In civil service, a pool solution will be created to pool the payment of compensation and compensation to civil service staff at the Civil Service Agency. To Article 15: The hardness fund will be extended. Thus, agricultural and forestry holdings, where production failures may occur, inter alia, as a result of the downturn of workers in the current harvest season, may also apply. [[Abg. Schellhorn: There's even less left!]] Article 35, Law on Sanity: The purpose of the change is to enable medicaments in the case of a pandemic to exercise a profession without the completion of the professional module. This is still on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I think with this great package, with these 38 billion euros we can secure jobs, support businesses and look at our Austria. Thank you. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Goddamn it.]] [[16:54]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e5639	The amendment, Supplement 2/7, was distributed and explained in the main guidelines, and is therefore under negotiation. The amendment to TOP 4 has been read, it has also been properly introduced and is under negotiation. Mrs. Alma Zadić has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e5671	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In view of the circumstances and also the limited time, I thank you for the opportunity to comment briefly here. There will be many questions in this situation. There are many questions of living together now too. At the same time, we know that justice must not work, even if we have to return personal contacts. Many questions have been raised, many of which we have covered in this law, some are irregular. Some have already appeared and some will appear in the next time. I would like to point out to you that we have set up our own website on the judicial website, on which we collect all these questions and try to answer them according to best knowledge and conscience. On the specific question of the rental of premises: Many people rightly ask what happens to the business premises, whether you have to pay the rent. I would therefore like to make it clear here that, after the legalisation of the Federal Ministry of Justice – of course, unbiased by independent case law – in the event that the rental company cannot currently use its business premises due to the measures imposed, it is already provided for. [[Call the FPÖ: If I have a camp inside?- Oh, my God!]] The ABGB very likely provides for legal regulations. You can now, of course, argue at academic level about whether § 1104 or § 1096 is applicable. It is clear, therefore, from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, that from our point of view, from the point of view of the judicial system, it is clear that the landlord is at risk that the business area cannot be used because of extraordinary coincidences. Therefore, the tenant of a business space is entitled to a reduction in the interest rate or a complete interest rate reduction depending on the degree of restriction. This, of course, depends on the circumstances of the individual case and also on the contract, but it was important for me to simply clarify it. I would also like to remind you once again: We will also have all this information on our homepage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e5703	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e5724	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If you deal with a pandemic, you need peace and seriosity. It is then very important that the ruling peace and seriosity also shine. I note a little bit that we are getting more information through press conferences than by talking and replying to the rulings in Parliament. It limits a little bit of sluggishness if one wants to enforce a constitutional change in the course of a health crisis in the haste process, a constitutional change to which large parts of the opposition say No. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] On the one hand, it is about the German Chancellor not being able to extend the deadlines, for example for legislative review procedures, and then to postpone them to the Sankt-Nimmerleins-Tag, and on the other hand, it is also about the fact that the Federal Government does not need a regulation as it will vote. It must be ensured that the results of the Federal Government's votes are clear. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Secondly, If we have a crisis, it's important what people get. [[The speaker put a table entitled “Workplace Guarantee” on the speaker’s desk.]] The people in Austria need a job guarantee. That's very important. If you want to radiate security, people need to know: Do they have a job guarantee or not? – We will fight for every job, and I will tell you: A great deal can be done with the instrument of short-time work, which has proved successful in the last crisis. I understand, therefore, that because the amounts are increased to 38 billion euros, one thing is not: We have always said that the amount of EUR 400 million for short work is too low. I spoke to the head of the AMS Upper Austria today, and he told me that 4 500 companies have already asked for short work and many have already applied for it. If you calculate this, you will notice that the 400 million euros will not be enough – and yet you will write back into the law the amount of 400 million euros! I would like to thank all the employees of the AMS for all the services they provide and process. It is therefore important to me to point out that it is important, when directives are drawn up for the hardness fund, to make sure that those companies that actually secure jobs are given more. 74,000 notices have been made from Monday to Thursday, and that can't be it! – By the way, a question: I have heard that Novomatic should have been classified as a system-relevant; I can't imagine that, but I would have liked to know if that was right. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Work guarantees are important, but it is also about getting the corresponding wage and having the right working conditions. I would like to remind you that there are now also many people who work in industrial plants who maintain food supplies, who are fighting in industrial enterprises for an economic performance that works on construction sites and that we must also think of these people. I would like to thank all of them: the industrial workers, those in the workshop who maintain food supplies, as well as those who work in hospitals. [[Complementary by the SPÖ as well as by Mr Prinz and Mr Meinl-Reisinger]] You also have a right to good working conditions, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, stay healthy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Meinl-Reisinger and Shetty.]] [[17:04]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6053	The amendment and the two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly implemented and are therefore also under negotiation. It is now Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6081	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Just five days ago, we met here and decided to take deep measures to combat the Covid-19 crisis. Many suggestions of the opposition were brought in at the time, rejected by the Federal Government, and today – thank God – I hope to see that on the sides of the Federal Government one has come to the realization that some of the demands we have made were not so wrong at all, and that these can be found in the current laws. The Federal Minister for Health also gave me reason for hope when on Sunday in the evening he recognized the problem of health care and hospitals in connection with the quarantine measures against the employees and called for the rapid testing of all quarantined health professionals. However, this hope was destroyed over the course of the week when I read that more than 200 health professionals are still in quarantine in Salzburg alone from the Salzburger Landeskliniken, most of them untested, and that more than 100 doctors are in quarantine in Vienna alone in the area of the KAV and in the AKH only 20 tests have taken place among the medical staff. Obviously not quite in the sense of what is being passed on to us in the form of information is being done here. My hope has been further limited in view of the fact that there are urgent problems that are being discussed in other European countries such as Germany, for example, as regards the high-risk area of dental coordinations, where there is an increased risk of infection due to the infestation of the equipment, or the lack of protective equipment in the established ordinations – no coordinated responses at all, and no measures by the Federal Government, which can protect the medical staff active there and prevent further dissemination. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even the current situation in the care sector, where many 24-hour workers are not available due to border closures, the Federal Government has not yet provided sufficient answers in my view, and this is probably also due to the legislative package that we are deciding today to fix possible mistakes in the past and to make as good a regulation as possible for the future. I've been here almost all day yesterday, at lunch the expert round with the staff from the ministries took place. We have considered the legislative proposals well, we have put forward proposals – I myself have tabled six different proposals to improve the present drafts – and what do you think about how many of them the current matter has been adopted? - Not one. This is not necessarily what I understand at the national end of my shoulder and taking into account expert opinions and views of the opposition. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Neither was the suggestion to include the new extension of competence for health care personnel in the Epidemie Act, which would provide legal and financial protection, nor was a reasonable regulation adopted at the pharmacies opening times, which actually provides the necessary flexibility. The amendment to the prescription law, which I urgently requested, was simply rejected, and the resolution of the hardness fund through the financial offices rather than through the Chamber of Commerce and the introduction of restrictions on the legal regulations were not included. I assume that looking back on the sides of the Federal Government, we will also see that the right and important proposals have been made. For today, I have nothing left but to bring in the amendments we are calling for in the form of an amendment. I am therefore bringing forward the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Mr Kaniak, ladies and gentlemen, on the report from the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 397/A, which deals with all these points which I have referred to. This request has been distributed in writing and submitted to the honourable Member. As I have said, I hope that reason may come back to the vote today and that we can decide on these measures in the same way. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6427	The application has been distributed, it has been properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6454	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Dear ladies and gentlemen and also dear children in front of the televisions! I hope you can use it a little bit as a political education, otherwise it may be more difficult to look at it. Before I go into individual points, I would like to express my special thanks to the legislatives, i.e. to those who write all these laws that we will decide today – the day, the night, again and again. I am very grateful to them because they are often forgotten in our routine and especially in times like these are required to ensure that the rule of law is guaranteed by these laws. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to address two areas: the Artists' and Artists' Social Insurance Fund and the Hardfall Fund. In connection with the Artists' and Artists' Social Insurance Fund, we will decide on a package that will ensure 5 million euros of support for artists. As much as I naturally agree that there could be a job and wage guarantee: Artists never have this at all, but not only her, but also and in particular art and cultural intermediaries in museums, in exhibitions, in memorials, in all possible contexts. We have succeeded in teaching the aid fund for artists and artists as well as for art and cultural intermediaries in these areas at the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds with EUR 5 million. I promise that the procedure to arrive at such aid will be a shortened one. It will be bureaucratic, it must be bureaucratic, because the opposite of bureaucracy is arbitrary, and we don't want them all. So simple, but bureaucratic. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: Exactly! Max Weber!]] - No, I'm quite a civil servant. It must be that way. [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: Exactly!]] The second is the hardness fund, which also includes free staff and free staff, which is highly relevant to students. 75 percent of 380 000 students in Austria work to finance their studies. That's all gone. These are usually free employees, workers, precarious employees, and they are also picked up by this hardening fund. My final word applies to artists who have already become extremely creative in the last week's transition period – there are numerous readings on Facebook, via Youtube, the diagonal will be taken over by the ORF via Flimmit, which sends opera –: Take this to heart and become yourself musical, recitative or whatever! Open the windows and sing in the yard, sing on the streets! That's what we need now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6510	Mrs Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6535	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As an educational speaker, I would like to highlight three groups which, I believe, have not yet been mentioned today. On the one hand, there are the teachers. Many of us have thought that it would not work that children in home schooling are provided with learning material. It works, of course, not at the technical and digital level that we would like and which in other countries has long been possible, but it works now. Many teachers do their best to stay in touch with their students in these days. . Thank you all for allowing yourself to come up with quite a lot of things away from the learning material, namely, providing children with encouraging words, gestures and photos. I'm appealing to you: Please, continue this way, because for many students you are very, very important people in these days! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second group are the parents. I have three school-leaving children at home myself, and I realize how partly difficult and challenging it is to teach one's own children, to explain something in such a way that it also comes to the children and is understood by them. This is not trivial, and for good reason there are experts, namely the teachers. Our parents are not only busy with the school fabric, but usually also have their own job, which we now have to do from home, and many are busy saving their companies and looking at how they are doing. – Thank you very much also to all parents and caregivers who now do their best during school closures. [[I should like to say that I am very pleased to see NEOS and Greens, as well as MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to thank our children and young people. For them too, the current situation is a huge change. It is a huge cut in her life, in her daily life and in her social contacts. Many have been on fixed dates, on major events such as the Matura, such as the ski course or the reading night. Depending on age, all of this has a great meaning for our children and young people. We're always talking about the children being the future. - Yeah, that's right. It is all the more important that we adults – I would now invite everyone to really listen, because it concerns all of us – are aware of our responsibility. What memories with our children of this time will depend on our behavior. I expressly welcome the fact that social workers and school psychologists are now on hand for advice on concerns, fears et cetera of children and families. Of course, our children and young people will remember the corona virus, but much more will they remember how we have dealt with the situation of adults, how we have spoken to each other, how we have spoken with our children and young people. There will be different memories, different facets of this crisis, but what should be important and conscious to all of us is that it should above all be a memory of courage, hope and confidence. Our children have confidence that we are mastering the present. Please be aware of this responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6598	Mr Lercher came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6622	Mr President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, no doubt, we're in a crisis. Quite certainly, this crisis is the biggest of my generation, even today it has already been mentioned. In a crisis, it is well known that everyone has to stand together, and I hope you will notice and feel that the opposition is striving for strength, as far as it is possible to help the government and trust it so that we can do all we can to get through this crisis well. As a principle, the following may apply: Better be misguided and too often acted, than to frighten away from the challenge! A crisis is certainly not the time for overwhelming criticism, but please, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, let me say one thing: If we vote as an opposition in these days, then we do not do so in order to prevent you from dealing with the crisis, we do not do so in order to change political change. We do this because we feel that something is going wrong in dealing with the crisis, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Scherak and Mr Shetty on the SPÖ.]] I believe that this is criticism that is appropriate and that it also needs to continue in the parliamentary process. Togetherness is often emphasized here and issued as a credo. Standing together is good, and maintaining distance, I believe, is not the right motto for working with the opposition in the context of this crisis. I think we have good and right ideas that help the everyday performance providers, and I would be pleased if some of you were accepted and some of them were held back by party tactics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore speaking so clearly about it because I believe that in the past there have been mistakes that we have pointed out. The many thousands of unemployed – more than 74 000 with yesterday’s day – certainly should not have been there, ladies and gentlemen, if we had allowed legal certainty to exist and acted as a state to capture people in their reality in life. I am deeply convinced that rapid action would have prevented this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me give you an example: If someone who has been employed in a construction market company for 40 years asks me what he should do in unemployment, then I do not have an answer to that because the strong state would have been asked exactly on this question, in this situation, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Maurer: short work! The best short work model ever!]] – The short work, appreciated clubwoman, has not yet been carried in this way, because you have ignored what we told you last week. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] You ignored that and not the opposition, valued club woman! Teaching does not work well for the Greens in this situation. Listen a little! Together we can safely solve this, and the shoal intelligence of this whole house will also help you to get through this crisis together with us. [[Abg. Maurer: I urgently need that! Please explain the world to me for a moment!]] [[Abg. Haubner:... social partners!]] Not all ideas are bad, ladies and gentlemen. I am bringing myself in here constructively, and I believe that this is permitted as a Member of Parliament not to slow down somewhere. This is a symbol of the debates of the past few days: Screaming, if the opposition brings something in, but is not willing to acknowledge that we are pursuing serious efforts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Maurer: We recorded that, all kinds of things! You weren't there at all! Where were you...? I never saw you!]] We are concerned with bringing in our legitimate ideas and proposals so that Austria can move forward, and above all, that the many performance providers of everyday life are taken into account. That's why I'm venerationed. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have the great honour of bringing in requests from social democracy, which I hope will also be taken up constructively. I too would like to thank the many heroes of everyday life. But not only do we want to talk about it, but we would like to make the following request today, so that the many heroes of everyday life will pay for their use: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to accept it. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: Amendment tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The application for a bill referred to at the outset, in the version of the Committee's report, 112 d. B. is amended as follows: 1. Article 2(7) is amended as follows: 2a of the following paragraph 2b added: ‘(2b) The Federal Minister for Finance has a monthly report to the Budget Committee in which all the measures taken in accordance with §7 para. 2a have been taken to present in detail. The report shall in particular indicate the financial impact of the measures taken.’; 2. Article 15(1) point (b) of Article 15(1) The last sentence 3 is replaced by the last sentence 3. Article 15(1) is amended as follows: 4 of the following paragraph 5 added: ‘(5) The Federal Minister for Finance shall submit a report to the Budget Committee on a monthly basis in which all the measures taken under the Federal Act are presented. The report shall in particular indicate the financial impact of the measures taken.’; This means that if support for EPUs really is to be carried out according to the motto “cost it what it wants”, then the upper limit must be lifted, ladies and gentlemen, so that it can be really quickly and clearly helped. In this sense – and I hope you will accept these requests as they are meant, namely as a constructive contribution in the sense of a good crisis management for Austria – I hope, I hope, and I ask for your approval, because it is really about supporting the everyday performance providers, the people who work today and are in fact the worst rewarded, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking for your support. - Good luck! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:25]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6965	Both motions for resolutions and the amendment are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Christian Ragger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e6997	Mr President. Dear ministers! Mr. Minister! I just want to try to pull a red thread once and sum up for you what happened in what dimension, with what effect, so that we are now here. If we take a little notice of this, then we realize that there is actually a division. On the one hand, there would have been a health problem, which, if we had not taken measures in recent weeks and months, would have led to the spread on 31 December. ==References====External links== This is the exponential curve when we start from the first patient, the patient zero. We discussed it briefly with Dr. Taschner. If we now take these measures, then the – thank God, and I am grateful to the government for implementing these measures – then the curve is naturally reduced; it rises, but it spreads backwards, i.e. the time window will be extended. If that means that the time window is extended, then the impact of economic nature will hit us all the harder. This makes me the second, namely, the economic sector. Austria, as we are all sitting here, produces a gross domestic product of 400 billion euros. Of these, 270 billion euros are consumption expenditure and approximately 98 billion euros are investment, 14 billion are export surpluses. If this curve extends flatteningly to the rear, then the consumer behaviour will no longer take place, then there will be no longer this cost-effectiveness. That is, in this area, Austria will come to an end. If we do not use the time window – and this is now your time window – in the social and economic fields – Mr Schramböck, this time window of investment and funding for small and medium-sized enterprises in the next few days, we will face the biggest economic crisis in this Republic. I'm telling you why: Of the 655,000 companies in Austria, 615 000 work between zero and nine people. In other words, the Republic will be measured whether these small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now supported and supported, will continue to exist or not. This leads me to the third point, namely the rule of law. If you decide 44 laws here today, it's good and right, we'll give you the appropriate confidence today. If we amend the Telecommunications Act so that we can see at once which persons, if they are not allowed to go out, can be found if we make amendments here in the rule of law, if we change deadlines, then at the end of the day, when everything is good, we will measure you by whether these deadlines also expire. We will now give you this confidence in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7043	Mr David Stögmüller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7068	Mr President. Minister of Finance! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! With Corona, we are facing the biggest crisis and the biggest outrages. in the Second Republic. It affects all of us and, as we have heard here in Parliament today, limits our lives. Every day, as we knew him two weeks ago, will no longer exist. We can't just sit outside in the sun together, sitting in the café using public transport. I don't know how you're doing, but I always think: Am I not getting too close to anyone anyway? Am I not in a risk area anyway? Does everything fit? Didn't I attack too many things anyway? It's clear that this is a big change for us. It is also unclear how our past habits and society are changed and lastingly influenced. At the moment, however, it is important that we all stick to it and, if possible, stay at home as much as possible. However, this is not possible for all people. People who work in system-related jobs cannot stay at home, but currently have to go to work to maintain our basic care and medical care. You can't say thank you often enough for that. This has been mentioned a few times today, but this is necessary: We would like to thank all the people who are currently in tireless use and who are doing an incredible job in these difficult times in various areas. I would particularly like to draw out a group, namely those who are present and the civilians. When we look at our neighbouring country Italy or Spain, we know that the staff reserve will be a huge challenge, especially in the areas of rescue, hospital staff and care. In other areas of general care and care, difficulties arise due to illness-related failures in the challenge of providing sufficient staff and maintaining these services. Among other things, we are supported by young people who have either volunteered for extraordinary civil service or whose military service or civil service is now being extended. We know that Corona has just created an exceptional situation in which we demand incredibles from all of you out there, including civil servants and those present. In the Second Republic, we have never called civil servants to the extraordinary civil service in Austria, or extended civil servants or civilian servants. With today's amendment to the Civil Service Act, we are able to be flexible to use civilian servants where they are urgently needed in the current situation and also during the challenges ahead. In the last few days, we have passed many laws and decrees that are deeply involved in the fundamental rights of people, of all of us, each of us. We are all aware of this. It is only the absolute exception that such laws are passed. That is why it was also very important for me personally to make it clear in the Civil Service Act that these laws are only an absolute exception, and at the end of the Corona crisis they will also come to an end – a so-called Sunset clause. If we have survived this crisis together – and we have to say that very honestly – then we urgently need to discuss our care system, the care work, so that we can draw our lessons from the Corona crisis. We also urgently need to consider what the professions we now call system-relevant are really worth, what importance they have for us. But now we are in the middle of this corona crisis, and we have to take advantage of all possibilities and try everything to protect human life and our basic needs. to maintain a system-related infrastructure. Therefore, on the one hand, my appeal to young men out there: If you still want to volunteer for extraordinary civil service, we can need any help! We will also need every helping hand in the future. Therefore, my appeal to all the people, all the young men who have time to say, I want to help: Report to the extraordinary civil service! It is also our thanks to those who have already volunteered: Thank you for being ready to take over this task! In these difficult times, cohesion is now needed so that we can cope with this crisis together. Thank you for your commitment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7134	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that the minimum distances here in the house must be observed. It is now possible to speak. Felix Eypeltauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7161	Mr President. High house! Estimated Minister of Justice! Dear citizens! The law on rent law is extremely non-living and rigid in many points and is often discussed very abstractly, even here in the house. But it is now becoming a real problem for many of the abstract norm – for all those who are now leased and for whom it is currently difficult to find a new home, let alone refer. The problem is § 29 para. 3 MRG. Even if both sides want to, there is currently no legal possibility under rental law to say: All right, let's extend for a few months! Rather, it is like this: Either a new temporary rental contract is concluded, then with a minimum duration of three years, or an indefinite rental contract – or the apartment is cleared. There is still the possibility to send out a few weeks with a routing delay, but that may not be the claim. Many leases thus expire these days, and this threatens to become an existential problem for many. [[Complementary of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Finding a new apartment at the moment is simply and surely impossible to get a new apartment at the moment is a thing of the impossibility. Find Now once a painter or buy yourself color, find a moving service, find a broker, make house visits! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: A broker!]] – This is simply not possible at the moment. Now go here and say: Well, then I invite some friends to help me move!, maybe in times of social distancing is not necessarily intelligent. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have to make it possible to extend existing leases by agreement between tenants and landlords by a few months – our proposal is maximum by the end of the year. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Martin Graf.]] This means if a tenant now requests: Dear landlord, I need a few months more, I don't have an apartment!, the landlord must be able to say: All right, that's how we do, we'll extend a few months! This is a practical solution, which is a close-to-life solution that is urgently needed. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We need a quick, simple and unbureaucratic solution in the interests of everyone, otherwise the situation threatens us that people are standing on the street and have no rental contract, no apartment. We can't want to. Please – the government fractions written into the main book – solve this problem! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[17:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7313	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly put in place and is under negotiation. It is now possible to speak. Hannes Amesbauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7337	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's all been said, and I'm not here now to repeat everything, even in the two minutes I'm still at my disposal. But in principle, once again: Of course, the Freedom Party is involved in this so-called national etiquette. This is our political responsibility. Corona doesn't know any party color. We are all sitting together in the same boat, and we are damnedly also obliged as Parliament to create the legal framework, but also in times like this, where we give so much power to the government, to exercise our control function and, above all, to be particularly sensitive when it comes to our hard-fought fundamental and freedom rights, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This cross-party co-operation is of course when we experience that thousands of people in Austria are currently doing incredible things in a professional and voluntary way – whether that is the doctors, whether that is the nursing staff, whether they are the truck drivers, whether they are the locusts, the suppliers, the people in the production plants, the cleaning staff and many, many more that I can no longer list. Thank you all! But it can't stay with us saying thank you to those people who are really keeping the whole shop running. We also need to see that we also compensate these people financially after this crisis. There are various proposals, the possibility of a 15. For example, monthly salary. This will have to be looked at, because people deserve it, not only that they get a warm thank you, but that they really are also granted recognition in the form of a financial achievement, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We know that it is now the small and medium-sized enterprises, the SMEs, the individual companies that meet that there are many workers and employees who do not know how it goes on. In the current crisis, it is necessary to take the right steps for the time after this coronary sense. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, if you take the national shoulder closure seriously, you agree with this measure. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] Dear Austrians, follow the recommendations of the authorities, keep your confidence and stay healthy! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Sir.]] [[17:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7505	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7532	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners here and all over Austria! The measures we had to take to protect against the spread of the corona virus have changed our daily lives as quickly and as much as we had not dreamed of shortly before. Depending on the profession we pursue, our daily life has either come to a complete standstill or he has been greatly accelerated. All of this not only has serious consequences for the economy as a whole and for our individual jobs, but also has implications in the area of justice and administration. While our everyday routine is pausing, deadlines continue to run, the highly complex operation is to be maintained and further daily decisions are to be made, not least with regard to the many quarantine decisions. We have therefore tied up a package to ensure, on the one hand, that the administrative authorities and the courts can carry out important procedures with very reduced staff, and on the other hand, for the parties, i.e. for all of us who are currently voting somehow this unusual everyday life, we should take the pressure out, we could miss deadlines. The package is very extensive, so I would just like to outline the most important points, for example, that all the judges can decide in future in circulation decisions, from the labour courts in the first instance to the highest courts. Time limits in civil and administrative procedures are up to 30. ==References====External links== On the other hand, they are beginning to run from the very beginning, which will put a great deal of pressure on the one hand to the courts and to the authorities and, of course, to the law firms, the legal advisers and the parties on the other. There are, of course, important time-limits for the defence of hazards, and there are no interim orders to protect against violence. This does not limit the term of service. In the order of execution, a pandemic is cited as the reason for the suspension of an execution, and in the insolvency order – we have already heard it today – the deadline for the position of an insolvency settlement will extend to 120 days. There is also a relief for debtors: If the delay occurs, the consequences of the execution, even if a warning is issued, shall not be effected before 30. ==References== Maintenance advances can be requested at this time without prior execution request. This is a very important measure to prevent financial damage from the families. Provisions have also been made in the event that courts are no longer accessible and no longer operational. In criminal law and in criminal law, there is a very large but very clearly defined regulatory authority for the Minister of Justice, which ensures that it is possible to respond flexibly to circumstances. Even now, thanks to the many people in the administration, in justice and in criminal proceedings, who give their best day after day and thus keep the state running! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to put another amendment to the Government's proposal 52 of the Supplements: [[Quoted print version removed]] Very briefly, I would like to talk to the previous speakers who have emphasized so much how many proposals would be made by the opposition and how few of them would be included in the legislation. These proposals are partly very constructive, really! However, if they are taken shortly before the vote, it is not possible to deal with them and to include them in the laws. [[Call:To go]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: We talked about it yesterday in committee!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Last Sunday's, Mrs. Colleague?]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... Mail written!]] I would just like to speak on the last request, that concerning rental conditions. There has been a problem that actually exists. It is really a problem and that is now virulent in numerous rental conditions. It is true, however, that this problem is already solvable with the existing legal situation; as the Minister of Justice might perhaps help, she could prepare a contractual assistance with her diligent and reliable staff in the ministry, to which one can hold, so that these contracts can also be concluded legally. In this sense: It is very likely to be recognized here as a national shoulder closure, and we are very well prepared to respond to all the suggestions as far as they are reasonable – but please first in the process and not in the middle of the debate. In conclusion: Keep your distance! Stay home! Stay healthy! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[17:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7672	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yes, it is that this is, of course, a great crisis, that is aware of all of us, and I think that we have also received very detailed comments on it. However, it is also necessary to take the opposition seriously. Mrs Sirkka Prammer, you have said that the request made by Mr Eypeltauer before you is completely new that he was suddenly made. Mr Eypeltauer made the same request two months ago, and to date nothing has happened on the part of the government parties. As a result, we have to make these applications again and again. We are constructive, we have also repeatedly thrown all the comments we have made today in requests over the last few days, and nothing has just happened in this regard! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, I believe that we must also benefit from this situation so that we look into the future and look closely at it: What exactly happened? What's going on? What lessons can we draw from it? On the one hand, these are the deficits we see that they are there – the colleague has already addressed the topic of digitization, school, but also the issue of digitalisation at work. But we also need to take a close look at what we are doing with the rules we are now setting in this acute case and what consequences they have. I'm particularly interested in two things: This is, on the one hand, the civil service system that we now have here. I referred to this in the committee yesterday. We now have the situation that by amending the Civil Service Act, we can also use civil servants in profitable companies. This may make sense in an emergency situation in the health sector, but it is equally possible to use these civil servants for all other activities in profitable companies. That is, they can just as easily use packages in the supermarket or understand things, they can act as cheap harvest helpers, and that especially in a situation where we have a labour market that is highly dynamic. We have gained a lot of new unemployed in the last few days, and now de facto have the situation that these civil servants are taking away jobs for us and that it is much more favourable for companies to work with civilian servants. [[Abg. Schellhorn: 100,000!]] The second point, which has already been raised once and twice, is the subject of the Chamber of Commerce: I have not heard any meaningful explanation here until now, nor have I heard the last few days why the Chamber of Commerce has to deal with the funding. There's not a single one coming! [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Kickl.]] There was an attempt by Mrs Götze, who said: Well, that must be because the financial offices are currently so overwhelmed. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance told us very proudly in the Committee how great the work of the financial offices is because they have completed 90 percent of the requests made since Monday. Within less than a week, there were hundreds of thousands of applications coming in. And, in your opinion, the financial offices are overwhelmed? It's kind of not quite logical what's going on. In addition, the question of the data arises. It is now true that the Chamber of Commerce will receive all my personal data, namely from me, and then – the absurdity one has to give itself – this data or the promotions it receives must in the end be matched with the Finance Office, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Ministry of Economic Affairs!]] It's a sort of bureaucracy that you're performing here, you don't think so. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Fuchs.]] A total of ten organisations are affected by all the funding and things you are disbursing: the BMF, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, WKO, AWS, ÖHT, the Vice Chancellor, plus other ministries, the Oesterreichische Control Bank, the Abbag and the AMS – an insanity! Unfortunately, for reasons of time, I have to come to the two requests I have yet to make; on the one hand, the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe it's important to know exactly who and why someone's paying promotions, and we don't want that to be a wild growth. In addition, I have another amendment which, as far as I am aware, has been distributed. In principle, this is about the fact that the Chamber of Commerce is not disbursing these grants, but the financial offices, and thus some paragraphs are being changed. I think that's very logical and should fit in with it. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Sir.]] [[17:51]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7926	Both the amendment and the motion for a resolution have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. Pia Philippa Strache is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e7953	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, what we are experiencing in Austria is an exceptional situation, an absolute exceptional situation. People are experiencing a sudden renunciation of their past everyday life, the fear of health, an abrupt end to the usual co-existence – a situation that many people in this country are mastering inconceivably brave and sovereign. - Thank you for that. Thank you too, ladies and gentlemen, for your numerous appearance at this meeting and also for the last meetings. This mediates above all one thing: So- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In addition, we are experiencing an economic situation that could not be more tense. We are also experiencing a new era in the division of powers between government and parliament in Austria. What was received yesterday as a green-Turkish initiative proposal is a product of day-long expert work of a hundred ministerial officials and representatives of the social partners – actually an incredible achievement. The result is a 46-page bill package with 39 legislative amendments and five new laws. These include various areas, including justice, labour law, health personnel, and the crisis fund. Understanding the absolute urgency of some steps in times of corona pandemic: What is to be decided for transparency with just one day without consideration today? – Yes, health is our highest good, but can we estimate what consequences and consequences that will actually have for the people of Austria? What will people have to live with after the crisis? And one may or must be emphasized again – I have already done it in my last speech –: The truth is reasonable to people. I hope that you will remain really fair in dealing with the citizens of Austria. We will nevertheless have to agree to all of this package of laws today, or rather we will have to agree to it. Nevertheless, I find the process of the government parties extremely worrying. This is no longer a genuine democratic process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I agree, however, because I have to rely on the government in this emergency situation. I must trust that this package of legislation will put in place all the measures that are urgently needed. But above all, I also have to trust that proportionate measures are being taken, and I can only hope that the government will justify confidence that sufficient action is being taken at all levels to bring the many affected people and also entrepreneurs through this difficult situation. There are also a number of things that have already been said, so I would like to limit myself to what is also important to me: Once again, I want to take out the individual companies. The EPCs have already been addressed today, but I would like to stress once again: A cover at 1 billion euros is a drop on the hot stone. This affects the roots of Austria, the small entrepreneurs, the family businesses. Furthermore, several people have written to me, they are waiting for tests, they feel symptoms, they report they would like to be tested. Unfortunately, they are again and again comforted or rejected, although the experiences of all those who have already experienced this crisis and who are longer mastering than we are, show that not only the restriction of social contacts is important, but also tests, tests, tests are important; the WHO also refers to this. A subject which has been neglected again concerns animal transport in this situation. No one has thought that the border closures are an enormous extension of transport times. I'm asking you to correct that. Dear Members of the Federal Government, prove to us that our confidence, this advance in trust is also justified! Let us not forget that the Corona problem will not be a problem of democracy! We're all stronger when we stick together. Let's look at each other! Let's help where we can without putting others in danger! Let's be there for each other! – Stay You're healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e8019	No one is reported in the word anymore. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. There is a desire to interrupt the meeting so that the political groups can study the Croquis. I am therefore interrupting until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e8061	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take the places. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft concerning 2. COVID-19 Act in 112 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Mr Mag. Debates of the European Parliament Caniak, fellow Members, Mr Schellhorn, Mr Scherak, Mr Deputies, Mr Scherak, Mr De Clercq and Mr De Clercq, have tabled six supplementary or amendment amendments, together with a request for a separate vote. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law or amendments to it concern amendments to the Federal Constitutional Act or include constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure specify the presence of the constitutional number of mandates required for the vote. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr Maurer and Mr De Clercq have tabled an additional motion for a resolution on Article 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, colleagues, tabled an additional request for Article 2. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 6 and Art. 8 Z 1 second sentence. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have an amendment relating to Art. 8 Z 1 third sentence and Art. 9 ingested. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Articles 10, 12 and 14. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment relating to Article 15. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign.– That's the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Schellhorn, fellow Members, also tabled an amendment concerning Rule 15. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Krainer, colleagues, also tabled an additional or amendment to Rule 15. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, also tabled an amendment concerning Rule 15. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Krainer: I'm afraid it's the majority!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – I correct: That's the majority. The request was accepted. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment relating to Art. 16 § 5. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Mr Leichtfried, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment on the subject of art. 16 § 6 para. 2 introduced. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall be voting separately on Article 16 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the just adopted amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Mr Leichtfried, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment relating to Article 19. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – The amendment was not accepted, it was rejected. The Members of Parliament, Dr Scherak, colleagues, have tabled an amendment concerning Article 19. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Rule 19. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall be voting separately on Article 19 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the just adopted amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning Articles 29, 33 and 34. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional request concerning - we are going to vote separately on Rule 34 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. [[Abg. Bures: No, that's not true!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request for Article 35. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled a supplementary or amendment concerning Rule 35. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 35 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the just adopted supplementary or amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning Articles 36 and 37. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall be voting separately on Articles 36 and 37 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 38. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have also tabled an amendment concerning Rule 38. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 38 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the just adopted amendment tabled by Members Wöginger, Maurer, colleagues. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 39. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 39 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Kaniak, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 40. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 40 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I am also expressly stating the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, colleagues and colleagues, on 'To take care of the tasks under Epidemic Law'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, on 'To ensure the care and advice of women and children affected by violence'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, ladies and gentlemen, on the package of measures for NGOs and non-profit organisations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lukas Hammer, Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on the "Abstinence of the energy industry during the Corona crisis". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[13/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues on 'Information campaign on rental interest-rate reduction entitlements for commercial rental'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Diplomé, Mr Diplomé, on 'Workplace guarantee at the time of the Corona crisis'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on'sweep protection measures for our construction workers'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Maximilian Lercher, colleagues on 'Corona Bonus - Appreciation for the Heroes of the Corona crisis'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Exemption of work for risk groups’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Felix Eypeltauer, colleagues on ‘Consensual extension of lease periods as an emergency measure in the Corona crisis’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Hannes Amesbauer, BA, colleagues on ‘Fix cost brakes for individuals and entrepreneurs at risk of their existence due to the COVID-19 crisis’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on 'Parliament's involvement in the Security Fund'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Federal Act amending the Oil Supply Act, together with the title and entry into 53 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This was unanimously adopted at the third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft Federal Act amending the Vocational Training Act in 100 of the Supplements. The honourable Member, Mr Kaufmann, Mr Götze, Mr President, has tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Kaufmann, Dr Götze, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 12. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority, so the draft is also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft Professional Law Amending Act 2020, title and receipt in 92 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We'll come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft EU Customisation Act 2020 on criminal law in 93 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Steinacker, Mag. Mr Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Mag. Prammer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I also expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. I note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Request of the Immunity Committee in 111 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption, GZ 17 St 5/19d, for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council III. President Ing. Norbert Hofer is a species of bird in the genus "Norbert Hofer". 57 para. 3 B-VG found that no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council III. President Ing. Norbert Hofer shall exist.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:25:52]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e8331	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 400/A(E) to 401/A(E). [[18:26:03]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00019_d8e8354	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 7 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: Agenda item 1: ‘Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Do, what is necessary’’ Agenda item 2: ‘The amendment Annex 2/5 is rejected [...]. The amendment Annex 2/8 is rejected [...]. The amendment Annex 2/11 is rejected [...]. The amendment Annex 2/14 is rejected [...]. The amendment Annex 2/18 is rejected [...]. The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 112 of the Supplements – in the presence of the constitutional number of Members – is adopted taking into account the amendment Supplement 2/7 in second reading in separate vote [...] and in third reading [...] with the necessary two-thirds majority. [...] The motion for a resolution Supplement 2/4 EA is hereby adopted.’ Agenda item 3: ‘The draft law is adopted in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal [...].’ Agenda item 4: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal [...] taking into account amendment 4/1 in second [...] and third reading [...].’ Agenda item 5: ‘The draft law is adopted in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal [...].’ Agenda item 6: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal [...], in the presence of the constitutional number of Members, taking into account the amendment Annex 6/1 to the second and third readings [...], with the required two-thirds majority.’ Agenda item 7: “In consideration of the request of the Central Prosecution for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council III. President Ing. Norbert Hoferwill be in accordance with the Proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. 57 para. 3 B-VG [...] found that no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council III. President Ing. Norbert Hoferbestand.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The next meeting of the National Council, scheduled for Tuesday, 21.4.2020, will be convened in writing. I also announce that a meeting of the main committee will be held here at the next meeting. A presidential conference in local 6 will then be held to clarify the further procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, stay You are healthy and take good care of yourself! The sitting is closed.
