ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e4996	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is open. I should like to welcome you very warmly, also the representatives of journalism, as well as the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions. [[Members of ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS wear oral nose protection masks with the letter “Orange the World”, MEPs of all political groups wear orange plugs, on which a blue hand and the inscription “Stop violence against women” can be seen.]] Deputies Franz Leonhard Eßl, Mag. Michael Hammer, Klaus Köchl, Bedrana Ribo, Maund Süleyman Zorba. Mr Leichtfried, on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5057	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm trying to say it calmly as possible: What is happening here today is, in my opinion, an increase in parliamentary democracy. It is an increase in parliamentary democracy when a law is introduced late in the evening – a law that will only apply in a year and a few months, a law that does not break people except hard work, robs their pension, a law that provides some alibi measures that will somehow conceal it, a law that generally – and to that end, nothing has been announced at all the show press conferences – reduces all pensions. Introducing such a law, ladies and gentlemen, is an increase in our house, an increase in the National Council. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ. – MPs of SPÖ keep tablets with inscriptions like “45 years are enough”, “stop pension harvesting! 45-year-olds-in-genug.at", "Who works must not be stupid! 45-year-olds-in-genug.at and “performance must pay off! 45-year-are-genug.at in large white letters on red background in height.]] I am not speaking in accordance with the provisions of our Rules of Procedure. Yesterday evening we had a very interesting debate on this subject, a very interesting debate, and I listened to Mr Koza, for example – it was also very loud. But I ask you something, Mr Koza – you have been a trade unionist –: As a trade unionist, what would you have said about a law that concerns the interests of the people massively, but which does not allow trade unions to agree with NGOs that civil society cannot talk about because there is no review because there is no committee because it is a night and fog action? [[Abg. Steinacker: To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP:To the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr President, you are President of this House, you are President of the National Council. I call on you to take measures so that this is not done in such a way. I can't do that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I understood that in the time when the crisis laws came to the Covid situation, some things had to go quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5113	May I ask you to lower the Taferls again after 30 seconds? I would also ask you to speak on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5128	I understood that not all the use of the house could be observed at the time. But a law that will only apply in one year, in such a way, to go through in a night-and-nebulous action, is a joke, Mr President. [[Mr Haubner and Mr Steinacker: to the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP: This is a debate on the Rules of Procedure!]] I call on you not to tolerate this as the President of the National Council. I can't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5173	Are there any further statements on business treatment? – Deputy Schnedlitz, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5197	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only join my colleagues in Lightenfried. When it comes to such a wide-ranging law that meets the diligent Austrians, it is not possible to exclude the preparation, the width that it needs. On your argument, which was put forward in the debate, when the hacker pension was introduced, I must say quite honestly to you: If you give something to the population and do something good, it is not bad if you hurry. [[Abg. Stögmüller: To the Rules of Procedure!]] But if you take something from the population, like the hackler board now, then the people must have the opportunity to express themselves widely. That is why we need a committee consultation and not a night and fog action. [[Complementary with FPÖ and SPÖ.]] There must be the possibility that it will be clear what all of Austria is thinking: 45 years are enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5232	On business treatment, Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5256	First of all, these are not statements of speech on the Rules of Procedure. – But that is something we will have to consult once more. If it is now said that this is too fast, I remind these two parties, SPÖ and FPÖ, of the 19th century. September 2019, when an amendment was tabled in the morning, which was voted on in the evening – with errors and things that were forgotten. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We sent the request yesterday in the late afternoon. You do not need to explain to us what it means to make an amendment in good time, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5290	Does anyone else want the word for business treatment? Please, Mr Leichtfried, once again to deal with business matters.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5314	Mr President. What Mr Wöginger said now motivated me to speak again. There is an essential difference: The last time you agreed! So that wasn't the problem, because you agreed. You have to say that quite openly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] Mr President, for this reason and on the basis of what I have said before, I propose to withdraw the 455 supplement report, TOP 30, from the agenda in accordance with § 49 GOG. That's the only thing to do with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5376	Klubobmann Wöginger, for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5400	Mr President. I am sorry to have to take the Rules of Procedure there, but one would have to be able to demand from a deputy club chairman that he bring the whole truth to light. A elected representative would have to be able to do this. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, he doesn't bring it together, because – and now you listen! ==References== On September 9, 2019, you submitted an amendment to ensure that the pension system is sustainable. You introduced these in the morning, and in the evening the Pension Adjustment Act 2020 was voted upon. This law was open and is available in Parliament. We rejected the amendment in which these regulations were exempted, but at third reading we agreed because we also granted our pensioners a pension increase. That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5441	Next speaker: Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5465	Mr President. Federal Minister! The issue of the freedom of deduction of early pensions at 540 contribution months has been discussed several times in recent months in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[Abg. Lightenness: It's about...!]] Several requests on this subject are available in the Committee, and all the political groups have given a detailed opinion on this and have put all the arguments into full swing, so that no one can be surprised at what group has on this question, and no one can be surprised that this request is on the agenda today. I therefore have to accept Mr Leichtfried's surprise as a playful one. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Scherak.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Gerald, do you want to come back to us?]] I therefore ask that we enter the agenda and proceed with the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5519	They have heard the request made by Mr Leichtfried. The request for the setting-up of the agenda item 30 needs a Two-thirds majority, and a decommissioning may be decided before entry into the agenda. Is there another word? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on item 30 from the agenda. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is not the two-thirds majority. The application is rejected. The item on the agenda remains the same as it was decided.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5563	I hope that we can now express a uniform opinion; it is about the “Orange the World” campaign. In your places are the masks as well as an information letter: [[Showing a mouth-nose protection mask with the lettering “Orange the World”]] ==References== November is the International Day against Violence against Women, the Campaign goes until 10 November. December. We have already joined this action in the past years, and it has also been expressed yesterday in all the political groups that there is a great unanimity of the Parliament as a result of a struggle. That is what we want to communicate to the public. That is why I would ask you to wear this mask or to infect the button today as a sign of solidarity. We'd be glad to see that. I'm very happy to do that. [[As a result of this, the Commission has decided to extend the scope of the programme to the following areas: Scherak.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5597	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5793	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the House that the Member has requested the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to report to the Commission on request 896/A a period of time until 7. to be set up on December 2020. The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I may announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m., from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and then in the TV library. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5819	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 to 3, 4 to 7, 13 to 15, 17 to 19, 20 to 22, 23 to 25, 26 to 30 and 32 to 34 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. In accordance with the agreement, the votes shall take place at the end of the negotiations on all the submissions of a committee. In addition, before the vote, the Presidents may interrupt the meeting briefly if the club members wish. We'll ask about it and we'll stick to the deal. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5844	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Today, 8.5 “Vienna hours” are available, i.e. for ÖVP 166, for SPÖ 115, for FPÖ 94, for Greens 85, and for NEOS 68 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 34 minutes, the speaking time per debate shall not exceed 5 minutes. We can now proceed to the vote on the speaking time. If you agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are going to go into the agenda immediately. [[09:26:06]] 1. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (344, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act and the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act (427 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 697/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, colleagues in ethics for all (428 d.a.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 927/A(E) by Mr Hermann Brückl, MA, colleagues on ensuring a world-wide neutral sex education (433d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5917	We come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Fässmann to our House. Mrs Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5947	Good morning, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a request from the Social Democrats because we want to teach ethics for everyone, and this has been rejected in the Teaching Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The best education for all our children, and no child to leave behind: This is our social democratic access. Therefore, in Vienna, the restricted all-day school is free, and therefore we will open ten new locations with NEOS in the next few years. The NEOS as the really bourgeois party know that education is central and that every child has to be taken – do not split, segregate, devalue. Unfortunately, we cannot say that from the black and green government. They continue to separate our children by class and in classes. For example, there are still these immeasurable black-blue German funding classes. You won't find an expert who likes it. Ladies and gentlemen! Now you want to separate even more with this shrinky teaching. Ethics becomes a punishment for those who go out of religious teaching or are atheistic. That's not in the sense of the idea. Ethics should be for everyone in class. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] It is said to be a workshop for living together, where our children get to know and deal with plurality and various positions. Our world is becoming ever more diverse and plural, with different origins and also religious confessions, and precisely that is why we need spaces in which we learn to deal with plurality and diversity together and with each other. We Social Democrats continue to exist, even though it was rejected, on an ethics teaching for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e5991	Mr Tashner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6012	Mr President. High house! Mrs Yılmaz, I can understand your thoughts. For example, this idea is actually welcomed in laizist states like France. I recall an article by Pascal Bruckner in the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” in which he found that laity, as it were, is the opportunity to lead an attractive, free life – not bound by religions and, in particular, by fundamentalist religions. Nevertheless, I believe that the model we present here has advantages. I would like to mention two points. First of all, there is a preference that a religious teaching, which takes place in the school context, actually takes place in school and not outside school, for this danger is faced by a laizist state like France. That is exactly what we do not want in certain religions, which also bear fundamentalist tendencies. – That's the one point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The other point is more fundamental, yes, if you want to, philosophical nature. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, every human being is somehow believers. Giordano Bruno believed in nature, and to this day there are people who believe in nature. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Lenin believed in the story, a predecessor of Mayor Ludwig believes in the god Bacchus. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Every human being is somehow a believer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] There are certain forms of faith in which one finds oneself together as a religious community. The faith itself is private, it does not concern the state at all, but the religious community is of course in the public, and there must be a relationship with the state. The state is supposed to join this religious community. Austria is a religion-friendly and, at the same time, a religion-neutral state, but he wants to see religions as well as the right reverential, which is very good for those religions that we recognize as religious communities. That's why we want religious instruction to remain. If we were to introduce an ethics lesson for all, the Ockham knife would be cut immediately, and the religious lessons would simply be gone – except for those taking place in the backyards. That is why we also want to give those who feel that they belong to a religious community an opportunity to learn about this religion of people who also represent it authentic – not missionary, but committed to the ideals of Enlightenment. That is why it is good for those who do not want to do so to be able to offer this ethics lesson as compensation – and it must be so, ladies and gentlemen, that this ethics lesson must, of course, also have a high level. The question is: What should I do? in context to: What can I know? What can I hope to do? to see and not to do some ethics teaching, which in reality is only about preaching a spirit of time. It's got to go deeper. I can tell you: It was also taken into account in this ethics lesson that we have prepared the training very well. I should like to mention, for example, Konrad Paul Liessmann, who really agrees that this ethics teaching can be done by well-trained professors. So we can trust that religious instruction will be taught at an eye. Yes, we can even trust that this is happening in the Community – sometimes in a friendly discussion. This is also very good, because it is about diversity. If you have read Lessing's Ring Parabola, you know: There are several rings, and Lessing did not think that one should merge these different rings into a large ring, but there should be several rings, of which one does not know which one is really true. “Nathan of the Wise” is, by the way, a book that has been on the Librorum Prohibitorum index. We therefore read it for good reason, of course, because we are committed to the Enlightenment. So this is, as it were, the goal of ethics teaching. If I now mention the name of Konrad Paul Liessmann, I may very briefly suggest that he has recently written a wonderful article on the school closures and thus revealed all that has been said here by so-called educational experts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] [[Abg. Scherak: I thought the schools were not closed!]] [[Call: ‘So-called’]] – The so-called school closures, quite rightly, yes, yes, you are perfectly right, Mr Commissioner, I thank you many times for that. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Oh, that's it!]] I have another comment to make, because Mrs Hammerschmid said something about Mr Drosten yesterday, but today it is in the “Kurier” that it was not that way so not just that you are going here and saying: [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: A little exaggeration!]] Trust You're not even listening to our experts! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Oh, God, you don't listen to them!]] So that's really exciting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Hammerschmid, never come back with the experts again! Compared to you, Tartuffe is a saint – and so I returned to religion.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6175	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6196	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Bundeskanzler, who is not here, but I know that the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP are going to give you this right now: Mr. Federal Chancellor, lock up the schools again! [[a tablet with the inscription “Schools Lock Again!!Putting on the speaker's seat!”]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All the important points that we need to debate and debate here are only peripheral, because the situation in our schools, the situation around our children, is currently a disaster. While we now decide to teach ethics – an ethics lesson that we liberals have always said we want him; we have also negotiated him in the government programme with the ÖVP in 2017 – at the top levels for those who are delegating from religious teaching. That's what we're going to decide today. We have also made our own application, which is that we want to have sex education at schools that are age-friendly, that is worldlyly neutral and that is carried out without non-school educators, so that the trained teachers, the trained educators, do this teaching at schools. But if, as I have said, I think about how our children are currently doing, then these topics are totally in the shadow. I can only recall the numbers of yesterday. As we have heard, the share of those children who are afraid of their future, who fear that their parents might lose the job, is up by 220 percent. Children with sleep disorders – the share has increased by 240 percent. Very dramatic is the development in the course of the crisis among those children who develop suicidal thoughts. The share has increased by 54 percent. That's the situation our children are in. Mr. Federal Chancellor, don't shut down the schools – open the schools, lock up the schools! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ. – Members of the FPÖ show tables with the title “Schools Lock Again!!!” and “No masquerade obligation in teaching” as well as a panel on which a photo of German chancellor Kurz and a painting that represents Niccolò Machiavelli are depicted side by side.]] You know very well, Mr Bundeskanzler – I also say this to you, Mr Fäsmann, too –: The schools are not the drivers of infection. Children are more rarely infected, and children are also more rarely infected by other people. That is a good reason for our children to return to a socially organized, in their normal, customary life. Federal Chancellor, lock up the schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6254	May I interrupt you briefly, Mr. Deputies? – I may ask you: 30 seconds – we've all seen it. [[Abg. Schnedlitz: We're 20 seconds away!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – I think you have a different time, honourable Member. I'd ask you to put the signs back down! Thank you. Mr deputies, you are on the floor. I interrupted your takeover.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6286	Thank you, Mr President, but I can repeat: Federal Chancellor, lock up the schools again! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We know about worried parents what the situation is. I have a letter here, which I made known yesterday. I can read this again, a concerned mother tells us what the situation is like at the moment. She sends us an online schedule, I can also briefly show it – one hour on-line per day – and she writes: [[a table with a table and the heading ‘Online hourly plan 1. Class/Gymnasium’ on the speaker board]] I'm polite to give you my son's current home schooling schedule, which is the 1. Class of a Vienna-based gymnasium visited to assess whether, in your opinion, any educational goals can be achieved in any way. I doubt it anyway. - Quote. High House, Distancelearning can never replace the presence class, and therefore, Federal Chancellor: Lock up the schools again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Get the kids back into their lives! Stop the hostages imposed by you on your own about our children! I say quite consciously on my own, because you know that you were alone with your opinion on this. The Minister of Health was for open schools, the Minister of Education was for open schools, his own government commission was for open schools, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Doctors, the Association of Industry, the Austrian Society for Child and Youth Medicine and so on – they were all for keeping our schools open. In this context, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! We want to help our children, we have to bring them out of this social isolation in which they are located. They deserved it, it's their future to do it. Mr Bundeskanzler, smelt Not even the future of our children, lock up the schools again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[9:41]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6449	The application is properly filed and has five supporting signatures and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Hammerschmid has spoken on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6483	Mr President. Mr Tashner said in his speech that I had misrepresented Prof. Drosten, as is today in the “Kurier”. – I find that exciting, because that is wrong, because in fact I spoke with Prof. Drosten during a telephone conference together with our party presidents about the infection situation in schools. There were neither you nor Mr. Grasl nor the “Kurier” there. [[Abg. Tashner: Mr. Drosten already, huh?]] That's why I know what I've been talking to him about, and that was clear, Drosten was clear: Schools are not free of infection, but you can keep schools open when you test pedagogues once a week with an antigen test because you have quick information and can quickly isolate. I'm sorry, but the
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6521	Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6542	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know how you're doing now. I'm doing this right now: I feel like I'm caught in an endless loop. I have all the information I have just told us about the FPÖ, including the Hourly plans of his son in Distancelearning and Taferln, heard and seen last night, I imagine. Am I the only one? I can only repeat what I said last night: The schools are currently, Friday, 10 am, open: Children sit in school, are cared for there, learn there. The school is locked up today in the afternoon because it goes into the weekend, and of course it will lock up again the next Monday. But of course we can hold this discussion again next week. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am therefore glad that we are now talking about another subject, on which at least we can start from a little basic unity, because of the fact that ethics teaching is a good thing, I believe, most of the people here agree in space. That's why I don't quite understand when I just heard from the SPÖ that it's a punishment when someone goes into ethics. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ethics for everyone – quite right, we want to do that too, but there are two ways: You can either wait for years until we actually introduce a blow of ethics lessons for everyone, or – second – we just start with ethics lessons for some, on the way to ethics lessons for all. We start at the ninth level, and there will be further steps, quite certainly the poly as one of the first steps and then probably the secondary level I. We need to train educators on this path. If there is a good teaching in ethics, then this will also be good for religious instruction, of which I am firmly convinced. The second main accusation that came here: Ethics teaching only for those who do not go into religious teaching. It is quite right what Mr Yılmaz said: that we need a binding space in school – between children of different denominations, between children who come from believing families and those who come from non-believe families, and between those who come from different environments. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Completely right – but exactly this door is open with this law that we have brought in here. I would like to draw your attention to a door that is open: In principle, religious and ethics teaching should take place at the same time. What does that make possible? You really have to think what you can do. This enables the teachers to cooperate with the various religious confessions and the ethics teachers, which enables cross-border projects, joint projects, joint excursions, joint discussions. We will certainly promote and encourage all of this in the light of the current debates. I see this as a very good, pragmatic way to actually implement a binding ethics and religious education for all in the long term, and I am happy to be able to use this open door if possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6609	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6630	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Hamann said that she was in a permanent loop on open schools – yes, because the schools are not open because no teaching is taking place and because, as I said yesterday, it is a question of the attitude which a country attributes to education. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You can now twist your eyes – that's great at all – but I tell you, there are also good other examples that you can't often point out enough: Ireland had about the same number of infections in mid-October, but there was the basic consensus – unlike here – that the schools remain open. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There, of course, the teachers get FFP2 masks, the older students also wear a mouth-nose protection, and there are other detachment measures such as more buses, smaller groups and larger rooms. – This is an attitude as we would like it to be here from the government. But now for ethics – this is another example –: I think we're giving here a historic chance. We've had a school attempt for decades, and now there's an ethics lesson for those who don't take part in religious education. In doing so, we needed an ethics teaching for everyone, no matter what religion they belong to or whether they are non-concessional. We needed to teach ethics not only in secondary school II, but also in ethics from 1st grade. There is a class of folk school, because there is religious education from 1st century onwards. It's a folk school. There you have to explain to me where the difference is. We need a teaching of ethics, where dialogue is taught, where democratic values, tolerance, rule of law are discussed, about equality between men and women. ==References====External links== November, I think, becomes even more evident that we need common ethics lessons for everyone. We have to stay in conversation with each other. We must be able to take different perspectives, even if we have different approaches to some topics. Only in this way can we figure out how to live and come out together as a society. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What comes now is another typical Austrian solution: A little bit is there, so nobody can get upset. You also said – or I think you said it in the committee – that is now a first step, and the polytechnic schools will be added later. – So: The polytechnic schools, which needed this very urgently, are not covered; the new city government in Vienna is now making a pilot effort. If you know how Austrian education policy works – and I do not know if the greens are so naïve or have not understood it – you have to say: Once there's a law, nothing will come for a long time! And if you, Mrs Hamann, believe that the first step is now taken and the door is open, then I think you are wrong. You can say: Better than nothing! – But you do not only do mathematics for a few children. After Moria, the LGBT area and the anti-terror package, ethics lessons are seamlessly included in the series of the greens – this is like the domino game of my children.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6699	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6727	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hamann said that she did not understand why the SPÖ felt that ethics was a punishment. – Of course not so, on the contrary! I'm telling you what I really said: “Ethics becomes a punishment for those who unsubscribe from religious teaching or are atheistic.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6756	Mr Salzmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6777	Mr President. Mr Fassmann! Ladies and gentlemen and love See you at home in front of the screens! With the present draft law on the school organisation law, we finally implement the transfer of the school experiment Ethics to the regular school system for many years. Ethics lessons, ladies and gentlemen, are a long and successful model. Since 2011, all the facts have been on the table in order to finally transfer this teaching of ethics to the general education system. So far, it hasn't happened. We from the ÖVP are finally putting it into practice together with the Greens, and I am very pleased about that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will teach ethics at the beginning of autumn 2021 – beginning at 9. School level – roll out and then enter the upper level. Of course, we are thinking of finally covering secondary level I, but we currently only have the experience from secondary level II and not so many ethics teachers, so it is clear that we are starting our upper level. Ethics teaching is offered as a mandatory subject for all those who are not included in a religious teaching of religions, either because they are without confession or because they have signed out of this religious teaching, which they may be. It is also important to us that ethics should take place in parallel – at best in parallel – to religious instruction and also include at least two hours a week. I can assure you that there are a lot of joint projects between students in ethics and students in religious education. I'm from the state of Salzburg. In Salzburg we have had the school experiment Ethik for many years, and he runs very well there. It is important for us to take a mandatory value education into school, for all students, because, in our opinion, the transfer of values is essential to ensure that pupils receive options for action in order to be able to make ethical decisions in order to get orientation for their lives and to help shape society. Leave But you also take me with you in your religious teaching! In the religious teaching of the different denominations, a lot of human and personality education is done, and there too many ethical issues are dealt with. So we have ethics for all, and the students can choose whether they are in religious education or in ethics. We just don’t want to push religious teaching to the brink because we don’t want the influence of backyard preachers. That is why it is also a very clear task for us from the state to look more closely at the curriculum contents and, of course, also the training of religious teachers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The education of democracy, the prevention of fundamentalism, respect, tolerance and mutual appreciation – these are central content in both subjects, and they are essential for a good basis for mutual interaction. I would like to ask you to give your broad support, and I would like to conclude by saying to colleagues from the FPÖ: If you already keep signs high so that they can see the spectators at home in front of the televisions, then please keep these signs in such a way that they are also legible, and not so that the writing is on the head. [[Abg. Smoking: You have put the education on the head, Mrs. Colleague!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6842	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6864	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes I have the impression that we don't want to understand each other. Be Neither do you surprise me that I consider the method chosen in relation to ethics to be very reasonable! We have retained the teaching of ethics in the government programme, we have carried out over decades an attempt at ethics, a successful, accepted school attempt, on which the Court of Auditors has also said: Sometime you have to decide to transfer this school attempt to the general school system! – There was a survey here in the Austrian Parliament in 2011 on the realization of ethics teaching, and now it succeeds. Now I wonder why, so to speak, there are misunderstandings or misunderstandings about the meaning of this path. One of them might say: Ethics teaching without supplementing and accompanying religions would be meaningful!, others may say: What do we need to teach ethics, we have a religious teaching anyway?, and in religion, unquestionably ethical questions are taken away – and now, I think, a networking model is being run. Mrs Hamann has clearly explained how I imagine the future of ethics, not as an isolated new subject, but as a subject that interacts with religious teaching. I also talked to representatives of all religions about this, and they said: Yes, we confess to this, and in our religious teaching we take over the questions taught in ethics. We voluntarily do something like an ethical core that transcends ethics and extends to religious teaching. We also make it from curriculum design in such a way that ethics teaching takes place parallel to religious teaching, so that team teaching and shared teaching are not only possible, but also, of course, promoted. We have also introduced ethnic education into the so-called co-operative group of subjects with religion. I think that this is a useful way, and a way always means that one has not yet reached the goal, but way means to go in this direction. This is my opinion, and you will see that I agree with and agree with the 100% procedure. I also ask for broad support of this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6909	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6930	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and all Austrians in front of the television screens! For the information for the spectators: We are now discussing three agenda items: Agenda item 1 concerns the amendment of the School Organisation Act. Agenda item 2 concerns ethics, and Agenda item 3 deals with neutral sex education. Any representative can speak on any point, as a result of the short speaking time, most of the mandates will choose a point. I am speaking today of the School Organisation Act, i.e. on item 1. I would like to quote for you § 2 of the School Organisation Act: “The Austrian school has the task of participating in the development of youth’s facilities according to moral, religious and social values, as well as in the values of true, good and beautiful ones through an education corresponding to their development stage and their educational path.” – So, and that is the core of the matter. It is about teaching and that is the question: Can teaching in closed schools at present be taught in the same way as is necessary and in the same way as is laid down in the School Organisation Act? – As a Freedom Party, we say: No, no, no, [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Formal schools are open, but the teaching takes place considerably reduced. Why reduce significantly? . Ladies and gentlemen, I quote from the Ministry's letter to schools on education, for example, at elementary schools and in the AHS sub-level. Decided therein shall be: “The focus of teaching in local teaching” – that is, in distance learning – “is on repeating and deepening the teaching content. However, if it is pedagogically acceptable, new content can also be mediated.” – What does that mean? – Currently, in the teaching of new content hardly is taught, because the ministry itself says that this is difficult, it is repeated. This means that, of course, the teaching, as it normally takes place in schools on site, cannot take place. You're saying that yourself. Of course, it is not pleasant for the ÖVP and for the Greens to address the issue of schools. That's why they'd rather talk about ethics. That's perfectly clear to us, but that's too short. I quote from another letter, dated 1. November, also from the Ministry of Education, which explains how the lessons can be done at all – please listen! –: “The mediation of new materials via digital media is a difficult task.” – Mr. Minister, that is what you say it is difficult. That is, when you make distance learning, new content is difficult to communicate. Further: ‘This is why, if necessary, a group teaching is to take place independently of school.’ So you say the same thing. They say: We are currently struggling in closed schools to teach the teaching that is necessary; therefore, the students should go to school. That is what you say yourself – and that is the demand of the Freedom Party. Please, Mr Minister – we all stood behind you, the entire teaching committee has supported you in the intention to keep the schools open – get through and don't always let German Chancellors push you short of your better knowledge! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Think of the children, think of the youth and think of the loss of education that occurs if we do not have the schools open, which is the case at present!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e6988	Members Ernst-Dziedzic are reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7009	Mr President. Minister! “Let’s Talk About Sex” – You may remember this song from the 1990s and/or perhaps also the “Bravo” booklets, which at least my generation has secretly read under the duvet. Today, there is the Internet without further filters in which children, small children, can certainly not move in with everything – as you say in Neudeutsche – which could have to do with sexuality, but often does not really correspond to what our demands would be. Then the FPÖ comes and submits a request in which it says: Please get the external sex pedagogy out of the schools! We both discussed not too long ago during the debate around Teenstar about how we can guarantee neutral sex pedagogy in schools. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] They know that homosexuality, as well as sexuality, has been deepened in principle. At the same time, we know that the suicide rate of non-heterosexual adolescents in Austria is six times higher. That is why your request is simply irresponsible. [[towards FPÖ]] We have therefore set out in the government programme neutrality of this sex pedagogy, quality assurance, clear criteria and just as these accreditation procedures to see who actually comes to school. Why is that so important? – Sexual education gives young people concrete information on the basis of scientific findings. She takes them fears and opens up spaces to be able to discuss these burning questions as well, but she may also be able to address negative experiences that she might not discuss with her own teacher, with her own teacher from shame. Sexual pedagogy is also a contribution to prevention, not only from sexualised violence, but of course also from unwanted pregnancies, but also sexually transmitted diseases. Sexual pedagogy strengthens healthy self-esteem, contributes to a respectful dealing with one's own body, with the other, but also, of course, to the knowledge of sexual and sexual diversity. Sexual pedagogy also supports the teachership, which does not have this professional education and is often caught because arithmetic examples and talking about sexuality simply do not go out at the same time. There is no need to fear sexual pedagogy in schools if it is just neutral, scientifically founded and carried out by good external educators and educators. We need this right now, so that the children themselves can make a different picture than it is delivered to them via the Internet, throughout the forums. In this sense: Please, dear FPÖ, let's end this unscrupulous debate, we guarantee a good sexual education for our children and young people in schools and please don't let any medieval, fundamentalist circles in front of the carts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7052	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7074	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I believe that, basically, the Greens and the FPÖ are even about the same thing, namely a worldlyly neutral sexual education. So I don't see the great discrepancy. That's the request, too, because that's what he's called. I just think that this is an extreme that you say on the one hand, that must not be done by externals at all, wrong that it is on the other side But neither is it right to say, just as it has been so far, it is somehow not quality-secure – at least not to the extent we wish. I think the objective is even green and FPÖ. I believe that the way in the middle we have chosen is the right one, because we are saying that we are raising it to an objective level by means of an accreditation procedure carried by a National Competence Centre for Sexual Education, which up to now does not exist. In this way we can see that, together with external quality assurance, we ensure good, regulated and, as far as practicable, neutral sexual education in schools. I would like to mention this: The application from the FPÖ is simply also utopian in a point. We must also see that in teacher education sexual education has a very low priority. This is a voluntary electoral module, which is also made available in a very small number. That is to say, it was not possible for the pedagogists to do this in the form alone – apart from the fact that I do not think it is useful – since it would not be technically possible, because this is not a mandatory module in teacher training. So I think there are a lot of screws to be turned on. I think we're turning to the right one by offering this quality-secured at school with an accreditation procedure. I believe that we can best achieve the goal that is common to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7113	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Is there any final word on the part of the report? – That is not the case either. The vote will be moved as agreed at the end of the negotiations on the presentation of the Committee on Education. We are therefore continuing to complete the agenda. [[10:09:45]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 924/A by Mr MMMag. Gertraud Salzmann, Mag. Sibylle Hamann, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of a COVID-19 training event failure fund (COVID-19 Schoolstorno Fund Act) (429 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 439/A(E) by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues on Where is the plan and protection for children and elementary pedagogists? (430 e.g.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 813/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, colleagues on Corona stress for parents stop (435 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 853/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on Individual Funding in Kindergarten (434 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7195	We come to points 4 to 7 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7223	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, the government is not to blame for the fact that Corona in this country determines our lives. The fact is, however, that it bears responsibility for how to deal with Corona and the Corona Management, health management, also in context with educational institutions. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] It also bears responsibility for how the consequences of the crisis are overcome in the short and long term, and it also bears responsibility for how our children and young people cope with this crisis. – And you will be measured by that, dear Heinz Fäsmann. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 2015, ladies and gentlemen, we also had a crisis – remember! – and our response to this was at the time to teach a 750 million euro pot from the bank to expand all day schools that can help children in these situations particularly because it is time to promote and support them, and we have spent a 60 million euro per year first, then an 80 million euro pot to provide additional language teachers, integration teachers, social workers, psychologists and support staff for our schools. What happened after the change of government, we also know: The integration stop at EUR 80 million a year was gone, and the EUR 750 million for the expansion of all day schools were stretched out and therefore de facto halved. What it needs in a crisis, ladies and gentlemen, this now proves the new city government in Vienna: 120 million euros per year for additional staff, educators and educators, our schools and for social workers! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] This is ten times as much, dear Greens, as what you have written in your project for 100 schools in the government program. Now you see why I'm not happy and don't get into jubilation when there is a hot 15 million euros once used for schools with special challenges. It has been eight months since Corona dominated our country – eight months that we could have been able to do well to make schools safe from infection, to make school succeed accordingly, and to compensate for the shortages of students. What is taking place in the families has shown yesterday a survey of TQS Research once again: 45 percent of parents feel it is a very high or a high burden that they are now faced with Distancelearning again, that they are replacement teachers again and do not know at home how to teach and work their children at the same time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] It therefore needs, I say again, a rapid expansion of support staff in schools, promotion lessons, follow-up lessons, schools all day long, a pedagogical pool for isolated pedagogists who are ill. All these requests were rejected by you in the teaching committee! Children obviously have no high priority in you – and that on the day of children's rights! Children have a right to education, and we will bring back all these applications! We will do it again, and you will have to answer again if you reject the requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7307	Mr Salzmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7328	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Oh, my God! Mrs. Dr. Hammerschmid, you can't leave it. I would not have made any more replicas about your presentation of the 750 million euros you put into the room two days ago, but you say it again today, so I have to go into it once again in order to correct that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I told you yesterday that the budget from 2013 to 2016 in the educational resort – and you know it was under SPÖ leadership – had only an increase of 29 million euros. These figures come from the Federal Financial Framework Act and are proven. – I need to correct myself: It was not 29 million euros but 27 million euros that the increase amounted to. You have spoken of 750 million euros for the whole-day school, for the expansion that you caused at the time. - Yes. But what you're not saying is: No country could have used this money because there was no stock support for the municipalities for it. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It would not have been a single place created in addition, but one would have even reduced the places, and we then, together with the SPÖ, renovated this law in 2019. - So much for corrective action. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But I would now like to speak on the item on the agenda, on the present proposal for an initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for an initiative is essential and important from our point of view, because it extends the school grants for this year of education. The school grant fund was therefore used because the Covid crisis meant that school events had to be cancelled in the short term. In order that parents do not sit on the very high cancellation costs, partly due to the short-term cancellation, this school grant fund was used. Applications for 3,400 school events have been made positively so far, and a sum of 7.6 million euros has already been paid. The proposal now provides for an extension of the measures so that we can, in turn, support the parents. When school events are held until the 11th century. In March of the last school year – i.e. this year – they have to be declared contractually fixed, they are supported by 80 percent in terms of school cancellation costs, and all contracts concluded in the last school year after 11.3.2020 are still supported by 70 percent. It is really important for us to support families financially in this crisis, too. [[Abg. Smoking:... lock up the schools!]] In addition to protecting jobs, in addition to reducing the wage tax, in addition to the social security refund, in addition to the children's bonus and the extension of the special care period – and this list could still be continued – we will now also decide on the school pension funds, in the best case with all your broad consent. I would like to end my remarks with an appeal [[Abg. Smoking: Stop with...!]] The school events are really great events in every student's life. It is also just the winter season ahead of us, and many youth hostels are now empty because the students cannot come. It is on every single one of us – from here inside, but also from the spectators outside –: Please stick to the protective measures so that we can get these extremely high levels of infection back down and winter tourism can take place in a somewhat smaller but still good form! Stay healthy! I wish you all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7396	Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7421	Mr President. Mrs Salzmann has once again claimed that we had only planned €20.26 million in the federal financial framework for 2013 - I think you said - by 2016. [[Abg. Tashner: 27.5!]] I became a minister myself in 2016. I know what I've been negotiating myself. I also received these 80 million euros for the integration stopper, my dear Mrs Salzmann – add to that! – and the 750 million euros were decided in December 2016 for the expansion of all day schools, and of course they will be picked up.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7461	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7483	Mr President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight at this point the interests and concerns of the children, even though last year the families, the parents and, in particular, the mothers, as the SPÖ's request suggests, actually came under the wheels. It is natural for us parents – for every mother, for every father – to take care of the children in a crisis. Nor do we complain that we have the children at home now. It's not about more work, it's the extra effort, of course, we're taking it all on ourselves. We do not complain about taking care of our children, for that we are there! Children are the most important, and we have been looking after our children in many years, in many nights, with infectious diseases, everything without complaint – by the way, of course, even without instructions from the Minister of Health and the Chancellor; we have managed anyway. All of this is family, like we're all living them. It's about something else here, it's about the future of the children. A month-long actual failure of performance, learning failure does not go without consequences. We have an artificially generated drop in performance, and this also affects children's willingness to perform! Children need some healthy pressure, they need an incentive. Parents know – I think all of us who have children do – how hard it is to get them away from the phone, computer, PC, from the TV. But What do you want to do now? – If they are at home all day, they can almost no longer be banned, but this too will have a long-term impact and damage. Now one Member of the Greens comes here and talks about children's rights. Yesterday, too, a colleague did this and was right to talk about the psychological effects of the lockdown, especially on children, about anxiety disorders; she even spoke of thoughts of suicide and then meant that it was not a shame to get help. – Of course not, but where?- Oh, my God! First of all, we are being turned away from the ordinations now – please, the Chancellor has said that every contact is too much – and, moreover, we parents cannot see eyes seeing how we produce massive patients for the child and youth psychiatrics! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That can't be in your best interests either. Our task as a parent is to prevent this and to avoid any harm from the children – and we fight for it. But this collateral damage is simply hidden here. And for the very last time to your wording and spin: The schools are open. – There are houses open, there are storage sites open, but schools as educational sites are closed – currently. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In recent months, schools have been overcrowded with commands and bans: Keep distance, wear mask outside the class, vent – there have never been as many cooled children as now due to the many ventilation – the quarantine always as dark cloud – should be everything, perhaps it brings something! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner]] We parents have seen that all these rules are respected, we have told the children: Keep in mind that it is essential to be taught! and until autumn holidays we have made it. But stop calling us parents a coronalist, an unharmed, conspirator, if we are for open educational institutions, if we have the interests of our children in mind, and when it comes to schools that deserve this name in particular! I have a special concern in this regard. It says yes, the schools will be opened on December 7th – I hope this time – but unfortunately it also means that the masquerade's obligation will then be extended to the entire class. That is, children – children from 10 years of age in the gymnasium – who already come by public transport, then have the mask on all day – 6 hours of lessons, then again in public transport – that is, 6 to 8 hours. I hope that's not true! I would ask you not to order this! Everyone who has children knows it's inhuman when you force children on the mask for hours. It can't make sense for children to have this mask for hours. We simply know that the children's treatment is of course incompetent, and many physicians also assume long-term health consequences. You're responsible for this. You're liable for it. I should also like to remind you that on many occasions you have really proved your common sense and attitude by vehemently expressing yourself against such a mask obligation throughout the entire class. [[The speaker holds a panel on which two photos of Federal Minister Fässmann are shown and on the one hand “Aug. 2020’ and ‘Fasmann considers masks to be unreasonable in class’, on the other hand, ‘Nov. 2020 and “Mask obligation also written in classes for 10-year-olds”]] You said: ‘A mask in class is absurd and children are not reasonable.’ Also in the ORF interview you have You are against the masquerade’s obligation in teaching, “in no light phase.” “The school is not the place of the eruptive formation of clusters”. [[The members of the FPÖ shall keep records with the title ‘No masquerade obligation in teaching’.]] – All right, that hasn't changed! I hope you keep your word. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Please let the children at least take off the masks at the place! I'm really taking you here at your word that you have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7582	The next speaker was Mrs Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7603	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this package of applications we are negotiating here under this TOP, we are actually looking into a whole bunch of terms that are present today in the kindergarten and also in the school business – this is completely out of question. Yes, it is really bad what this crisis requires the parents, the children and also the teachers, organizationally, for example – you make plans, you think something, then you have to throw everything around again and plan again – pedagogically – how do you follow the core task you have, how can you teach the children something despite the circumstances? –, socially, the challenge is: How can one keep the classes together, how can one maintain communication, how can one make sure that no one is lost? The emotional level must also not be forgotten: How do you manage to keep everyone in a semi-trailer's mood and not throw away the nerves? In this respect, it is totally correct that this is a huge challenge and that some things are certainly not ideal at the moment and are going on as it is. But many things work in everyday life. Over the last few days, I have been getting more and more reports from schools in which you have really been able to find yourself in this exceptional situation, where there are small groups in which the teachers are putting a lot of effort, and I find it quite misleading, when you call this “place of storage” what is happening, because you are destroying these really great efforts of many people who are doing a lot of things there. [[Abg. Worm: Beautiful speech! That's nice speech, Mrs. Colleague! The reality paints!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, in such a crisis, it is also tempting to point out with your finger to someone who can be responsible for all this, that you identify the guilty, but this makes you really, I think, too easy. The truth is, you cannot solve everything here in Parliament by law, you cannot solve everything at government level, you can only do what you can. Some of these things are under negotiation today. The extension of the Storno Fund has already described Mr Salzmann in detail – this is an important instrument so that families do not remain at their expense – and of course we have included and already realized other proposals contained in these opposition applications, for example the definition that kindergartens are system-sustaining – after all, they are, of course, they are, and they are always open – the demand for guidelines, hygiene manuals – all that is available. The demand for belt tests, for mobile test teams has also been realized, and the demand for a level plan – we have. As far as the traffic lights are concerned, you can say: What is happening at the moment, including the learning stations, actually corresponds to what is foreseen in our level plan at level red. [[Abg. Worm: That's not a good speech, Mrs. Colleague! Very thin!]] We have also managed to reform the special care period and, of course, we will also give what Mr Hammerschmid has mentioned – the additional education to get all that is happening at the moment of damage – comprehensively, in the various holidays, in the afternoons. We will not solve every problem, but we will continue to try everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7659	Mrs Künsberg Sarre is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7681	Mr President. Minister! The kindergarten is quite exciting. Whenever it comes to opening up a kindergarten somewhere, cutting a red tape, not enough politicians from the municipalities and from the countries can laugh on the picture and in the camera, but always when it comes to investments and improvements in this area, no one feels somehow responsible. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The Federation would really like to, but it doesn't mean it's allowed. The countries also want, but they don't have money. We always bring in applications, but they are usually postponed, as well as with regard to the level plan, which the representatives of the kindergartens found very, very helpful – that was also postponed. This proposal has now been put to the plenary session at least once, so that we can discuss it, but of course it will be rejected. In the teaching committee, it also says again and again: The countries are responsible for this, and somehow one is always put down as if one did not understand federalism. But I wonder why there is a 15a agreement for the kindergartens, but especially now in this Corona or Covid period, not the possibility of setting up another 15a agreement with the countries in order to give additional money to the kindergartens for a better care key. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the ÖVP there are also many representatives of the municipalities: I can't imagine that even one country, if one offered a 15a agreement for the federal states, would say: No, we don't take the extra money! – So there is no political will. In Germany he is there, there one is much more federal than in Austria, and they have managed to adopt a kindergarten package that will reduce the skilled child relationship to a good level in the next years. It is a country-wide problem, and it is a pity that the Federation and also the countries do not recognise that there is a great need for action and that no one should press ahead with the federalism debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7730	The next item is the speech by Mr Melchior. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7751	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually on the subject of school grant funds, but I would like to see something from the perspective – you can imagine! – a father says that we are discussing school closures all the time today and have already liked a few words about it here. I find it absolutely remarkable that we are discussing here whether the schools are now open or not, whether there is a worrying infection in schools or not. I think you can approach it differently. One can approach reality on the one hand, and Corinna Milborn has brought this very good and striking to the point by saying it in a tweet, either the Federal Government closes the school or the virus will do it. – And so it is, and quite a lot here in space, the parents themselves, uncles, aunts, grandparents, whatever they are, have experienced this in recent times. More and more teachers were positive, more and more students were positive, more and more came into quarantine in the classroom, and there was simply no more normal teaching. That's what happened. All right, so let's leave it. If the real situation for many here is apparently not to be grasped, we take another situation: Drost – we have already heard this today – is seen by most here as the expert in this field, and he says quite clearly – I do not say, of all –: [[Abg. Worm: Not of all!]] Of course, in school years, the infection situation is the same as in adults. – And it’s not surprising either! Why would it be different there? Why should the school building, the school per se be an island, where all this doesn't happen? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] As a father, I also tell you: I'm ready to do everything, I'm willing to keep my distance from every human being – to every human being, really! – but not to my children! This is something that I find very, very difficult to do, and that is something that it can then be a direct transfer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies Ernst-Dziedzic and Jakob Schwarz]] That's why: Please, if we can agree that there is Corona, we may also be able to agree that there can't be an island anywhere - - – I can't hear you, but maybe you can write to me then! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fireplaces]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] The situation is that we should agree here that there is this infection situation. I'll tell you: As a fourfold family father, I am totally aware of how tough and laborious the situation is at home, how the lesson home schooling is – I am aware of that! [[Abg. Kassinger: Yes, exactly!]] The children can of course go to school, it is okay and that also takes place. As always comes from the opposition that this is not possible: That's just not true, it's possible! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies Ernst-Dziedzic and Jakob Schwarz.]] Finally, I come to the why I'm actually standing here: The school events and trips are something that, of course, has not taken place in this form in the Corona crisis, and I am glad and grateful that we are expanding the school grant fund today. Already 110 000 pupils and their parents have benefited from this fund, more than EUR 7.8 million has already been paid. I would like to mention a nice story from a family that was in great concern that she would sit on the cancellation costs: You have requested the refund, and within four days the money was in the account. That's how it's supposed to be! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7851	Mrs Kucharovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7873	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr Melchior, we are in a privileged role! That means your children live differently from many, many other children. I would just ask you to see all the children once and perceive different life realities – really! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Melchior and Mr Zarits.]] Second: The interpretation is also such a thing. We never have – never! – claims – and you will not hear from any of us – that there is no infection in school! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] It is about countries – and I mentioned this yesterday or yesterday – such as Ireland, which, despite school openings, has reduced the infections by 50 percent in three weeks, and Germany is also on a good path. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Melchior:... schools closed!]] And that's what we always emphasize, not just us, but many experts. So the Federal Chancellor, together with the Minister of Education and the entire Federal Government, has decided against expert assessments, and that is what it is all about! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] Many have already said it today: Today is the day of children's rights, and education is a child's right! With this approach, however, children are quite simply taking this right, and you can't simply leave it that way, for eight months now! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I would also like to say: No one is responsible for a pandemic in politics, no federal government, but for managing a pandemic. As I said, There have been no clear messages and statements for months, not in the school sector and not at all, Minister of Education, in the elementary field, in the field of pedigrees and kindergartens. It's really sad that you hardly say a word about it. I am fully aware of the competence situation – because it always comes from you that it is not federal competence – but you have your own department in your home, which is precisely responsible for it. The colleague at NEOS mentioned it: There are 15a agreements that you would easily get on your feet for the elementary pedagogical area, if only you wanted. And I say it again: Education begins in the kindergarten, in the pedigree and it is a right – and there it must be asked whether a child is at home in Vorarlberg or in Burgenland. It's not like that right now. The kindergartens are largely closed. I'm telling you quite honestly: You're too close! At the time, we made the request: “Where is the plan and protection for children and elementary pedagogists?” You just claimed that all of this was fulfilled. - That's not true. This question was raised in the spring, and it is asking itself today. You didn't do anything in the summer to provide answers. Elementary educators are still not classified as system holders, Mrs. Col. Hamann! There are also no detailed concepts, no prevention concepts, no test strategies, as we demand, with belt tests for each child. There's no such thing as that! You say something that is simply incorrect, I would also like to say on the spot. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] In addition, the big question arises: How's it going from 6th to 6th? On December? How do we – children, parents and educators – get out of the lockdown two? What are your answers? - We don't hear anyone. We therefore continue to call for a uniform approach for all nine federal states, your full commitment to this, Mr Minister, and a uniform level plan throughout Germany. We remain with our requests, even if you unfortunately reject them. They won't tire us of continuing to stand up for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7958	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e7980	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! [[The speaker put a table entitled “No masquerade obligation in teaching” on the speaker’s desk.]] First of all, a sentence on the important and very good school event-failure-hardening fund: That's an important, great thing. I don't read the letter for a while, but I know examples that parents still haven't got the money for broken, cancelled travel. [[Keeping a document in height]] We can then talk separately about this, but now I would like to focus on the central topic of teaching and school closures: I used to quote the school organization law. Mr. Melchior, you said there were different entrances. A question specifically to you as party manager of the ÖVP: South Tyrol locks up the schools again next Tuesday at the same number of infections as in Austria. Now I ask you and you, Minister: Why does South Tyrol lock up schools and kindergartens next Tuesday? Do they have better arguments? - I don't think so. We were fully in agreement in the Teaching Committee on all the expertise that schools have to remain open. This is necessary and important. Why is it necessary and important? – Because there are studies I mentioned yesterday and they say that the consequences of non-open schools are sustainable. There is, Minister, you know, a study by the Ifo Institute in Munich, where the consequences of closed schools with their impact on youth have been identified. I'll get you together. If one third of the school year is out of date – and we have already achieved that – this means that over the lifetime there is a loss of income of between 2.7 and 4.6 percent, i.e. 13 000 euros for a compulsory school leaver, for an academic 30 000 euros, and the economic damage is enormous, minus 2.8 percent of the gross domestic product, which means 12 billion euros in Austria. That's huge numbers, it's an incredible amount of money – but once again, it's not just about money. We demand relief means, that is the decisive one, and there we agreed! Federal Chancellor Kurz has won out and locked up the schools, although we have strengthened your back, and we do not understand that. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Please answer another question: Yesterday, the media could be seen – we were not informed as parliamentarians – that, on the one hand, it seems that a mask obligation is coming for all students from the age of 10 when the schools were on the 7th. Lock on December. I was and am a teacher. How does that work? How should I communicate with students for hours with a mask? It doesn't work! Body language is important. That is not a lesson, Mr Minister. So please tell us!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8038	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8064	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! Today we are addressing the SPÖ's request for a coronastress to which parents are exposed in the crisis. Of course, this stress is no longer manageable in the near future. Although Greens and ÖVP – apart from Mr Tashner – claim that the schools are open, this only describes the fact that the building of students can be entered for care purposes. Teaching should therefore take place at home, where parents in addition to home office must now also operate home schooling again. They do their job, operate home schooling, best at the highest level, and the household also makes itself on its own. Short and good: Parents are overwhelmed. But what about our children? – With the numerous thanks of the ÖVP, I still lack the great thanks that our children deserve because they have to endure this up and down feelings, this incomprehensible round and forth. So to all the kids out there: You are great, and we thank you all from the heart – not only on today's day of children's rights! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In home schooling, children are kept quite at the bar, their schoolmates no longer see them in the usual frequency, experience social and intellectual limitations, and also massive restrictions on their right to education – that is very much behind. The collateral damage of these protective measures must then be eradicated by those who are not being heard or included, but children's rights do not seem to be relevant to the government parties who were unable to agree yesterday on the request for children's rights of Mr Holzleitner. On the one hand, this is about putting children's rights more into the focus of your work and also encouraging experts, but also following the recommendations of the UN Committee on Children's Rights and working quickly on the implementation of the same. But that the UN conventions are not relevant to our government, not interesting and negligible, can also be seen on the subject of inclusion. The much younger UN Disability Convention is dedicated to children and young people in their own articles, and this too is far too little attention. I would like to read to you the following descriptions of the Youth Advisory Council for the Tirol Monitoring Committee: Many of us have “been disadvantaged because they have a disability. For example, we could not be there in school during excursions or in gyms and workshops. Many of us have been insulted, ridiculed or even severely beaten by fellow students. No one has often helped us. The teachers didn't notice anything. In the public we are often stared at by foreign people or looked at comically. Some of us don't want to go out or use a public bus. Many people see only our impairment, but not the whole person and the whole human being. There are people who cannot understand that young people with disabilities can be funny and have fun in life. Sometimes people speak very complicatedly. You don't want to use a simple language. Then some of us can't understand everything well. Or they are impatient if a person cannot speak plainly. They don't want to listen and Don't bother yourself. But some of us need simple language or more time to speak. Sometimes we are talked about as if we were not there at all." These descriptions show: We need a lot of food. Coronastress, however, not only have parents, but also the people with disabilities that I often quote. The coronaapp is still not accessible despite empty promises in the summer and money of the Social Ministry and the Uniqa. What are you doing? A total of 3 million euros have been made available for improvement, dissemination and also for the production of accessibility, but nothing has happened. Germany has involved people with disabilities in development, where they have managed. Why can't our government do it? – The only answer that seems plausible to me: because inclusion in this government is not desired by the ÖVP. This is a testimonie to poverty for this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8138	No one has been reported in this debate, so it is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then put the vote back to the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Education. [[10:48:29]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 925/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, colleagues on school closures on the grounds of lack of teachers (431 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8174	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Vorswinkler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8201	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! We are talking here about a request submitted by us and on 22 May. It was rejected in the teaching committee of ÖVP and Greens in October. In detail, these are preventive measures to prevent school closures. We wanted a package to maintain education in schools for all children and also to secure the operation in kindergartens for all children, especially with a pool of replacement staff for relief; a package that would be needed right now. This request was supported by NEOS and FPÖ, and the government parties have rejected it because we do not seem to need these measures. Well, now there is Distancelearning, contrary to all expert recommendations, and this has extremely negative effects on the children, on the families, on the educators and educators. I do not repeat what I said in plenary yesterday, but I stress that the Directors, the Directors and Teachers deserve the highest recognition in this difficult situation. Thank you. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We are currently experiencing a condition that we have precisely because no arrangements have been made. Asking the debt question does not help, and disinfectants and masks are necessary, but not sufficient. We have always pointed out that we have always warned of this condition. Dear ÖVP and Greens, I assume you also have children, you also know directors, directors, teachers – even in your ranks. Are these – your own – not worth being supported? They always reject all the urgently necessary proposals of the opposition parties, due to party policy, but this is not in place here, ladies and gentlemen. In return to a comprehensive damage associated with school closures, there is little effect in the fight to control the virus, and today is not only the day on which the discount-free pension is abolished after 45 years of work, but also the day of children's rights, and in particular I refer to the right to education. The maintenance of the school business with teaching, namely in schools, is a right of children. There is a need for a package to prevent further completion of school, which is why we have put in the self-employed application once again. I speak on behalf of all children, all parents, all colleagues. I urge you, Mr Minister, to enable all children to learn in schools immediately, to relieve families and to support staff. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8256	Mrs Totter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8277	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! The corona pandemic requires a joint effort of all the fellow human beings, and especially we in the House are required to cooperate constructively. Already in the summer of this year, a comprehensive package of measures for schools, with hygiene measures and prevention targets, has been developed by the Federal Ministry of Education. But the implementation of these measures was not always easy, and I tell you why: When the masquerading obligation, which constitutes a necessary and quite proportionate measure, was introduced in our schools, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Group, cried out: For God's sake, it's not at all! What was the result? – Insurance, which is sufficient for teachers and school boards to be accused if they call for compliance with the measures. Then testing possibilities were offered at our schools as a volunteer – and I now emphasize this again: as a voluntary service. What did you do? – You have already roared again: Intervention in physical integrity! To whom did you make life difficult? – The dedicated educators and educators at the individual school locations. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As a school principal and through contact with many other school boards, I can tell with what strength and what great commitment all of our schools have implemented these requirements. To ensure that the people of our schools are optimally protected, school boards, educators and administrative staff have taken a line – quite the contrary to you, ladies and gentlemen, who do not bring it together, in a constructive cooperation to participate. I said in my last speech: What becomes visible here is a clear division of the population, which is noticeable up to the base, that is, up to the individual schools. Unfortunately, the rising number of infections in the last few days made it necessary to change the schools to Distancelearning. Believe me, this decision has not been easy for anyone, yet I think these measures are wise and necessary, because we must protect all people in our schools. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] There was no need for a school to be closed because of lack of educators. Provisions have been made in time: In close coordination with all relevant bodies, for example, a pool of students was set up, which can be used very flexibly. We all hope that in our schools of teaching can be resumed in the usual way as soon as possible. All teachers – and I am deeply convinced of this – teach much more local education at school. There they have direct contact and exchange with the students, and that is the nice thing about this profession. But they are also reasonable enough – unlike you – that they understand and carry out the necessary measures in these times of crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I ask you to leave this unreasonable and tactical opposition course again and to help us fight this crisis together so that normality can return to our schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8340	Mr Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8362	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Dziedzic of the Greens – I do not know if she is here now – you have put us in the vicinity of fundamentalism in your speech on Agenda item 1. For the Enlightenment: The application for sexual education in schools came from 12th century onwards. June 2019. Now I'll tell you a secret: It was the motion for a resolution 911/A(E) of 12. ==References====External links== Dr Rudolf Taschner, Wendelin Mölzer, ladies and gentlemen, this is a request that we accepted from then on. Now I ask you, dear Greens: Who is now in the context of fundamentalism? - That's definitely not us. You're picking at the ÖVP now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second point to my previous speaker – I can't leave it that way either: They said that we would have leaned somewhere too far, that we split society or the like. I say one to you, Mrs Colleague: If there are individual school directors who write to their students and especially parents today and threaten the exclusion from the school, the suspension, then these are not educational measures that need to be put in schools. If directors can't get through any other way, then: Good night! – I think we can still criticize that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing: Not as a liberal, not as an opposition party, we divide society, as one accuses us of this now, no, these are the measures that divide. It's the tool that's split here. It is the bulwark that the government is driving in our society with its measures. Then a third correction, Mrs Hamann, because you mentioned the school closures again – daily the Murmeltier greets, I say it for the fourth time this week, I think –: In the sense of the word, schools are not Finally, the teaching is only shifted, and it is only a term used here. But I am with Mrs Künsberg Sarre of the NEOS, who meant it was a question of attitude. It is a question of attitude, it is a matter of importance how to deal with school closures. Do we do it like the Federal Chancellor and send our children to social isolation, or do we do it as other countries do, and do we keep the schools open? Are we doing the same as Ireland, Sweden, Germany, France, Portugal, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Estonia, Switzerland, Croatia, Bosnia and Belgium? – I could list other countries, all of which have their schools open, Hohes Haus. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We know the studies from Belgium, we know studies from Canada, they all confirm us when schools are closed regularly and repeatedly over several months, then the proportion of those who have to repeat classes increases in the long term also the proportion of those with lower education qualifications and, of course, this also affects the labour market. Social inequality and social injustice also become a greater one. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Therefore: Let's keep the schools open! It works. Federal Chancellor, lock up the schools again! It works, we know the well-known measures: Hygiene rules, distance rules, use of larger rooms, class classifications, morning and afternoon lessons, block lessons, flexibility of start and end times, at least plexiglass panes – all this is possible. Let's get our children back to life, let's give them back the joy of life, let's revitalize the research spirit in them! Let's put her back in our schools! Let's get this done! Federal Chancellor, lock up the schools again!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8434	Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8458	Madam President! In her speech, Member Totter claimed that until now no school had to be closed for lack of educators. That's wrong. After a quick investigation, it was Feistritz at the Drau, Trofaiach, Großraming – and I could continue this list. Of course, schools were closed because educators are ill. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Totter.]] That is why we need the test strategy, so we need a pool of educators who can jump in when a educator is ill.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8492	We continue in the speaker list: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8513	Madam President, Mr. Federal Minister! I should like to add to what Mr Hammerschmid has just said, and I would like to fully agree in the analysis: Of course, it's a problem if we have a lack of teachers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] It was a problem that teachers often failed, as teachers in the risk group have listened and have therefore been difficult to learn from the presence. It is true that many teachers were sick or – in the More in the past weeks – in quarantine were. This was due to the fact that stress in regular schools has increased on a regular basis. This was quite an organisational problem for the executives, and it was of course also important to take out a little pressure. It is also a good plan – which we also pursue – to rent additional rooms, for example, in order to achieve thinning at the schools. Also the additional rooms stand and fall but with additional staff, because I can't have an additional room for which I don't have any educators. And this leads us to the basic problem: You don't just spell them, they don't grow on trees, you can't read them from the street. We need to build on this in the long term, and we are, of course, talking about a problem that goes back years. But of course we will do something. The kindergartens have already been addressed. One of our main priorities, which we want to push for next year, is a training offensive for kindergarten teachers. The Federal Minister may be able to confirm how much I constantly insist on it. That's gonna happen. We are also talking about deficits that have been built up for decades and not just yesterday. We will force that in this profession people will find a place that may come from other professions, only later in life choose to be cross-entry. There will be new places of study and new places at colleges. In the last few weeks and months, the schools have actually done much to exploit the entire reservoir of educators and educators, which was somehow available. They have, of course, been tried by pensioners, but they have reached the border because they too belong to a risk group. The students in the last study section are the better variant. There is already a large pool – you will correct me – about 1,800, which are already used. Many are very successful in the service. Last but not least, I would like to mention a group that has rarely been spoken up so far, these are the many NGOs who support and operate in the afternoon. I am thinking, for example, of the many learning cafes, funding hours, language promotion, the many things that need to be temporarily shut down because of the contact restrictions. As soon as it is possible, however, it should be resumed, because we will also need it in the future to compensate for the many deficits that have been built up. I would also like to express my appreciation at this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8567	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8589	Madam President. Minister! High house! My speeches always lead me back to the attitude. If I hear from Mrs Salzmann how important it is for children and students that school events can take place, that winter tourism is also important and that it can take place, we can see the importance of this area and which education in the ÖVP has. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Hamann will not be tired of stressing how well it is in schools, how well some things are implemented. Yes, many teachers and directors are really trying to make sure that what is happening now can happen well or as well as possible. This is not the case, however, because the Federal Government has so insidiously prepared it, but because many have a motivation to make the best possible out of this care situation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The theme of the lack of teachers, the failure of teachers and school closures would not exist at all, and it would be a great relief for parents and, of course, for teachers and children, if you had managed to put in place a good plan for tests, a good test strategy and rapid evaluations in the last eight months, and to establish a contact tracking that really works. Your Minister, Mr. Anschober, didn't get all of this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We now have the situation that there are so many figures in the old and care homes, because it has also been unable to control the figures there, because there is obviously no test strategy, no rapid test evaluations and no contact tracking. I wonder why other countries that have high numbers to keep schools open and then bring down the numbers. We obviously can't do it. Mr Hamann, if you're talking about making a plan for additional rooms now, I'm really wondering: What have you and what has this Federal Government done in the last six months or since the summer?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8649	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall refer the vote on this item on the agenda to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Education. [[11:08:25]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motion 926/A(E) for a resolution by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues, on the repetition of part-examinations, etc. of areas of examination of the final test (Matura) (432 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8685	We shall now proceed to item 9 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Michael Seemayer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8716	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The situation in our schools is largely chaotic, and as a father of two school children, I can confirm it firsthand. The upper level has been in the distance learning for weeks, the compulsory schools are de facto closed. If said, stay at home, meet no one, gastronomy and trade close, children should not go to school, not come to kindergarten, then of course the feeling that it is dangerous to send children to kindergartens or schools. You have also intended to make this feeling come true. The right to special care granted by the government proves to be a mogel pack for parents, for there is only a legal claim if all other care options are exhausted. If you leave schools and kindergartens open a bit, there is no legal claim. The following problem for parents: Many kindergartens and schools interpret the word care option differently. We have reached numerous complaints that care was offered only to children of parents in system-related professions. You were told not to. There is obviously a lot of room for the individual institutions. This also explains the fact that in some schools more than three quarters of the students are present, but in other schools only isolated. Even if you don't like to hear this now: Many children are currently being cared for by grandparents, who are known to be part of the risk group, because parents, on a voluntary basis, are of course not entitled to a special care period approved by their service providers and because they no longer trust the risk of sending the children to schools and kindergartens given by the government. That's the problem. Minister, stop this chaos! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next chaotic state that starts, namely at the Matura: Through the long round and forth in spring, whether the Matura can take place and if so, under what conditions she should take place, valuable time was taken for the students to prepare themselves for the final exams. Let us now use the time to draw up a concrete plan so that everyone involved can prepare for the final exams! Unfortunately, Mr Worm's request did not find a majority in the Committee. We have submitted a further request to ask you to draw up a plan that will enable timely preparation and planning security for the Matura 2021. Minister! I'm trying to get you involved. To strive alone is not enough, for if there is a witness in a service, someone has tried, then it is usually a bad witness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8767	Next speaker: Mr Johann Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8788	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! The possibilities in the Austrian education system are well known to be very diverse. They start with preschool education in kindergartens. It goes on across the public schools, the secondary schools, the gymnasiums, the polytechnics, and then, depending on the wishes and ideas, goes on to the specialized schools. You can also teach with Matura. You can visit a bra, you can visit an AHS. Then the next step comes in further succession: Colleagues, FHs, Universities et cetera. The Austrian education system is strong and offers opportunities for everyone – I emphasize it: Opportunities for everyone – and I say it only needs three letters, those are the letters T, U and N: We just have to do it. That's, I think, the secret. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would now like to refer this to the actual proposal. One thing is clear: If you choose a school, you know what you're going to do and what you're waiting for at the end of this education: the date X, where you're going to experience the hour of truth: What has been learned during this training period? You have to be able to get your performance to the point. The word Matura is known to come from Latin – maturus is mature – the mature test is called Matura. In later life you will be tested again and again and have to be able to get your performance to the point. I would like to return to the previous discussion. I had the bad luck of having salmon poisoning in 1985, exactly at the time when my year of graduation began in school. I wasn't at home, I wasn't in school, I was in an insulating room for three weeks. I missed three weeks of teaching and then I had to think of these three letters, I had to do more and have been able to pick up everything and have been able to successfully drop the Matura on day X. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian education or school system provides three periods to take a matura, a mature exam. That's the main date, then there's a side appointment in the fall, and then there's also a third way to recapture the matura in the area where one was still negative. That is why, I believe, there are enough ways to deal with the matura positively, and therefore, I do not think, it is necessary to create an additional date. The students have already been burdened, the teachers have been burdened. On this occasion, I would also like to thank all teachers for what they are doing now, at this difficult stage. I know what teachers have to do now, I am in class myself for a few hours, I know what my colleagueship is doing every day in this phase. I also wish the students in this difficult phase everything, all the good for the difficult time they are going through now, but one thing is clear as well: Where a will, there's a way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8846	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8870	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. The problems in the Austrian education system are not new, we have been discussing them here in Parliament for many years; I may wish to point out this again. Thousands of students leave school without graduation after nine years, and, according to scientific studies, there are about 20 to 25 percent factual illiterates who, after nine years of education in Austria, cannot read or calculate meaningfully or write. We have discussed these problems more often than not. I believe that the problems are even more evident now in Corona times. What's going on for me today, with all this beautiful speech, especially the government, is: We are currently losing hundreds of thousands of children in Austria, who are no longer experiencing meaningful lessons through Distancelearning. The problems that have already existed in normal times are at present much bigger and more dramatic. I see no approach at all, Minister, that you are addressing it. We also discussed it together at the time, and you also promised that you will improve the education system in Austria in such a way that there are no more 20 or 25 percent illiterates, but that at least at some point you will come in the direction of 10 or 15 percent, because of the dramatic economic impact and also dramatic effects on the personal development and life of these ten-thousand-thousand students. Unfortunately, God did not happen enough, Minister. I have made this request for the first time in 2015 that we are discussing. That was actually a rather simple, pragmatic approach. It is about the fact that the Maturants who do not create the Matura in the first run are given the opportunity to voluntarily take the repeat examination before the end of the school year, say at the end of June to take off at the beginning of July. So that was a very pragmatic, simple story. It's not about freematurants or green maturants either, because everyone can go through the matura. This affects some 4,000 to 5,000 students per year, possibly even more next year. However, the repeat tests are unfortunately God's end of September, early October. That is, those students who are concerned lose the connection in professional life, at university, at the federal army and, and,. So that would be a simple story to solve. I was already signaled behind the scenes in 2015: This is a sensible proposal, but we do not do so at the teachers' union because teachers do not want to take on the end of June at the beginning of July. At that time there was a minister who told me that. I am glad today that the SPÖ is on board and supports this proposal. The Greens, the old Greens, also supported him at the time, now, in the government, they obviously no longer do so, and the ÖVP was always against it. I can only point out once again: This is a very simple, simple story, by which you may not be able to get through thousands of maturants who have the bad luck at this exam at the first time, do not block the further way of life, a story that is easy to implement and, especially in these times, would actually be a little mosaic stone to improve and make sense of education policy. I am very disappointed if this vote is going to be negative again today, but I can promise: I won't let go. We'll hopefully achieve the goal of providing this relief to the maturants at some point. I hope for a rethinking of the government and for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8921	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8943	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand. There are exactly three periods in which these repeat exams can be carried out under the School Education Act, one within the first weeks of the school year, i.e. September to mid-October. As a result, those who did not do anything at the first start of the Matura can repeat the relevant examinations – so no talk about the dates you mentioned. Why not in the same school year? I can tell you that. For example, if Matura is at the end of June, a repetition in the same school year did not go out. As you know, the matura dates go from May to June, when we are in a normal, pandemic-free year; and those that have passed the last major dates, one cannot then give the opportunity to repeat the exams in the same school year because the school year is already over. Then the corresponding tests can be repeated in September and October. There are no difficulties with the universities either, because there are later periods for inscription, precisely for such cases and also for all other areas. So the request is simply not understandable, because what you want is possible anyway. In relation, repetition of examinations in the same school year is not possible because it could not all be used. So it makes sense that this is not until autumn. Apart from that, we would have to put together commissions again, which is not quite easy either. So we will not agree because, first of all, we cannot recognize the meaning and secondly, of course, we want the same conditions for all students, regardless of when they have their master's appointment. There must be the same possibilities for all. In this sense, I say now another Ceterum censeo: Even if everyone claims that the schools are closed, they are not! In particular, they are open to the students so that they can make the learning packages there. The kids, and I really mean that, are those who have to find themselves in all of this. The schools are therefore open specifically to them. By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e8988	Next speaker: Mrs Gertraud Salzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9009	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Matura is important. It is a very important degree for students, which opens up many opportunities to enter the tertiary area. I think that we have sufficient possibilities of examination, with the main date before the summer, with the autumn date for the first repetition, if it is necessary for individual areas of examination, and then with the spring date, usually in February. I think that's enough. Mrs Hammerschmid, you try it again and again! It won't be more correct even if you come forward to the actual correction and try it again. I can only quote you once again – and these are the numbers coming from the ministry, and I can read that you can be sure –: [[Keeping a document in height]] Budget 2013: EUR 8,060 billion; Budget 2014: EUR 7,998 billion; Budget 2015: EUR 7.983 billion; budget 2016: EUR 8.087 billion. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kucharovich and Mr Hammerschmid.]] [[Abg. Hamerschmid shakes his head.]] Under the line – and yes, I can read and calculate – this will result in about 27 billion euros more in these four years. Now you have come here and have said that 750 million euros have been added to you for all day school. I'm fact-based, just like you, as a scientist, I assume. This is the report of the Austrian City Association, and the findings are very clear. [[Keeping a document in height]] These 750 million euros are therefore empty because they are ultimately not provided with stock support. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] I should like to draw attention to this report by the Municipal Government – and you will not doubt it, Mrs Dr. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Hammerschmid – quote: “A financial framework in this form is by no means sufficient as a basis for the preservation of existing, let alone for the expansion of new GTS groups!” – Mrs Hammerschmid, I am fact-based, and it will not be better. [[Mr Hammerschmid and Mr Kollross.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9088	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I would then ask the chairmen of the political groups whether we can proceed with the votes immediately. - You're fine. All right, I'll go like that. [[11:25:31]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 9
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9115	We now come to a series of votes on the reports of the Committee on Education, which I make separately on each item on the agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law amending the School Organisation Act and the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act, including title and entry into 344 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Admission in third reading? – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hermann Brückl, colleagues, on 'To ensure regular education from Monday 23rd. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 2: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 428 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign. – This has been noted by a majority. Agenda item 3: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 433 of the supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of a COVID-19 training event failure-hardening fund, including title and receipt in 429 of the supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him again for a sign of approval. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. Vote on agenda item 5: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 430 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to take note of the matter, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 6: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 435 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 7: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 434 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 8: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 431 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This is the majority, and thus taken note. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 432 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of this report? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. [[11:29:35]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9289	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mrs Schramböck in our midst and give Mrs Martina Kaufmann the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9317	Madam President, thank you for your speech. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House and everyone who is watching us from home today! Yes, our world is becoming more digital, everything is changing, and we have experienced since March how rapidly things have changed in our working world. This is of course also the case in digital manufacturing. That is why we have tried to take a first step in this proposal, so as to be able to meet the conditions, so that we can train young people for the future and move forward in the field of digital production. What is meant by this – for all those who may not now deal with production on the one hand or with digitization on the other? – This means quite clearly that it is necessary for use and operation in manufacturing to be well-trained. These processes used to be done by hand, by machines that had to be operated manually, and so on. Today it is important that programmes are written for this and that they can also be applied. This request is now intended to give rise to the fact that for the practitioners – and this has also been a wish of practitioners – we strengthen dual vocational training in this area. All in all, I would like to say, it is important that we continue to work on dual vocational training, that in Austria we come to a level playing field in school and vocational training. We have these two different ways – and in order to do so, many other countries in the world envy us, because through these different ways of training we also manage to get the best out for the location in Austria. It is now important to take an important further step in digitisation as well. We have 200 teaching professions in Austria, one can choose from 200 teaching professions. The teaching professions are constantly being revised, for which the foundations have been created. Important steps have been taken to ensure that the individual occupational profiles are re-examined and that we are prepared for progress. It is important to me – even after all the debates this week, and even today it has been mentioned again and again – to hold: If, young people out there, the SPÖ, the FPÖ and NEOS always stress that all those who are in the school system, in training systems, are lost generations, I would like to say quite clearly to you from this point of view here in Parliament: No, you are not loose, you have learned many skills and skills, even in this school year, in education, in teaching this year, you will still have many opportunities to apply these skills and skills. You're anything but loose, don't let that happen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And because you're not loose: Take advantage of the opportunity, there are still many open teaching places in Austria at the present time. Apply in the companies, the entrepreneurs will look forward to you! Thus, you can also strengthen the economic location of Austria a lot again and bring it into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9365	Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9389	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many points that can be given to my predecessor. I should like to stress here on the part of Social Democracy that we support everything that contributes to the upgrading of teaching, and that is why we will agree to this request today. Allow me, perhaps, to hold briefly at this point: It is already a bit symbolic that the Minister of Education – who could still be able to take these 5 minutes in peace – is no longer attending this debate. I believe that this is also a problem: in the education strategy in particular, teaching, vocational schools and many other areas do not have the importance they deserve. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, I ask you to pass on that to your colleague, because I think it takes a joint effort to upgrade the teaching and give it this importance. It is not only marketing measures in many areas, but it is a matter of rethinking the subject and system of work in Austria, namely that work is worth seeing the same opportunities that students are also treated with regard to tax expenditure, in order to bring about a change for real performance providers – and that is undoubtedly our apprentices – ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These skilled workers will achieve the good part of the prosperity in Austria in the future. That is why I would ask you to address this emphasis in teaching in many other areas. When Sebastian Kurz and Sigi Maurer were still studying, the apprentices with their zeal and their work enabled us all to go the way of study. This is a good thing, the study is a wonderful opportunity – and I expect respect and fairness for our apprentices. This also means, above all, that we communicate to them that we are building on them and that we also understand them as performance providers in that state. That the hackler regulation, the abolition of the hacker regulation is a real signal to our apprentices and future skilled workers, I dare to doubt, because with the abolition of this regulation we are already expressing to them: Your performance is worth nothing to this state in total. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That, I think, cannot contribute to an upgrading, no, that in total will only aggravate the problems. I would ask you at this point to reconsider this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9450	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9474	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Support for teaching – of course! Teaching with Matura is a liberal project, of course we support it, that is something very important, but the present proposal, Mrs Minister, cannot be outlawed to dustlessness. They ask themselves, as the Federal Government, “to examine the possibility of creating teaching professions with a focus on digital production and to initiate a process for implementing the creation of teaching professions with a focus on digital production”. They're asking to check something out. They themselves have for months explained to entrepreneurs the importance of digitization as to the opportunities offered by digitization. They even explain to those who have lost the job that they should turn towards digitization and thus get a job again – and give yourself the order to examine something! Is this not embarrassing for you in the current situation in which thousands of teaching places in Austria are missing, whether you can perhaps introduce a new teaching profession? This will not help apprentices and job seekers at all, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations to Mr Martin Graf and Mr Mühlberghuber.]] If you really want to do something specific for the apprentices and especially for the apprenticeships, then finally you will remove the regulations and the requirements for the teaching firms. Today, every teacher has to stand next to the apprentice all day, so that he doesn't knock on his finger with the hammer when he hits a nail in the board, and so today many businesses no longer take on apprentices. These are the problems that businesses have, and you should do something in this direction. If you really want to support the apprentices in Austria and really promote the teaching professions – we have already submitted the application several times – then introduce the Blum-Bonus again. The Blum-Bonus also created 2 500 courses between 2004 and 2008. This was a measure that really worked and that would be useful. I therefore propose once again that in the first, second and third years of teaching, the enterprises should receive a monthly support – in the first year of education. 400 euros per month, 200 euros per month in the second year and 100 euros per month in the third year of education – is made available. This would really create teaching places and help the apprentices. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, please do not examine – act! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9645	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9670	Madam President. Dear High House! Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! Three years ago, no, last year I taught in Indonesia and a colleague asked me: How does your training work? I've heard about it. - I had to explain this to him. We know that our education, this dual training is gaining international absolute recognition and is a success model, a model that we are all very proud of. It is imitated internationally and the government wants to continue this successful path by upgrading and developing the teaching. A first step was taken here in spring by the Master's title or title of the Master's equivalent to an academic degree. Now it is a matter of further development of teaching, a new teaching profession is being created. Thus the teaching really comes in the 21st century. ==References====External links== We have been talking a lot about the digital transformation that arrives in the companies in recent days. New professional images are created, for example in the most modern stainless steel plant in the world at the Voestalpine Böhler stainless steel site in Kapfenberg. There apprentices are trained and also needed to make 3D printing or to be able to work in the networked industry 4.0 world. Currently, it is companies that have apprentices trained in the castle teaching, for example, or as tool makers and then train them to do so. The new apprenticeship summarizes this, that is, the apprentices are already being prepared for these new challenges during their training. I think that this is an important contribution, on the one hand, to eliminating the shortage of skilled workers, on the other hand, in order to enable apprentices to have interesting, attractive careers so that they can get new perspectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9703	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9727	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Yes, of course, one cannot be against it when it comes to establishing a new teaching, so to speak, in the digital sector. The problem is that it is already in the apprenticeship training itself all the time. In tourism or gastronomy, for example, only apprentices are trained if the kitchen is an Austrian cuisine – which, by the way, is not at all available, because there is a Bohemian cuisine or an international cuisine. If, for example, an Asian is not cooked in the kitchen, then he must not train an apprentice. There is the glove-maker instructor or the women's and men's tailor's apprentice and all these absurdities. Mrs Minister, it has now been found again in the budget week that the Court of Auditors generally criticises these trade regulations, so we should also set in motion a trade reform here, because then we can also reintroduce professionalism. Dear Peter Haubner, what we have just done is a lercherlschas to what was then the cashier and we once negotiated, because nothing happens in a trade reform, and we should be aware of that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Although we have to be aware – and I said this yesterday, Mrs. Aschbacher, too – that we have to think at last about how long we want to think about it to the 14-year-old that they make a decision, just because it might be at the teacher's union or somewhere else, that we are finally keeping and training 17-year-olds in school for so long that they may have a different education. And please, spare me with the example that the photographer's apprentice is back or is no longer available, because since the phone and digitalization have been available, the photographers have quite different requirements anyway. So I would like, Mr Kaufmann, to see it go further than that there is just a new teaching, just a little digital or maybe 3D printing or some spasms. Work with the young people! If we deal with the fact that we establish a middle maturity that we can expect 17-year-olds to make a decision on what job they want to practice, perhaps also with a matura or perhaps also with a reasonable study, then we will have no shortage of skilled workers in the future. What you're setting up here is tailored to business chamber officials who don't want someone else to do their job. In principle, however, you have to remember that young people are now dealing with the shortage of skilled workers. The lack of skilled workers is de facto our all concern, but we will not be able to fix it with the current education scheme, but the number of teaching posts will continue to decline.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9785	Next speaker: Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9809	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that this item on the agenda, as it looks, will be decided by everyone. This is a good basis and an agreement to the teaching and training that many young people have already completed or come before. Especially the area of this further development in the new digital space is extremely important, because we know it is about understanding mechanical processes and implementing them digitally. This will be more requested in the future. In Austria, we have many companies that are innovative, which are often world market leaders, and this is really about them saying: Yes, it is good and nice, I have the most modern machines, we have developed them ourselves, but sometimes the training is not adequate and the young people must completely new This is the first time we've been taught. – This is to be improved with this new teaching. It should be linked to the digital implementation from the very beginning to the mechanical knowledge. This is, of course, exciting for young people, and I think that we provide an important basis for this. In this sense, as mentioned by my previous speaker, this is only a beginning. In order to have skilled workers in the future to know well-trained skilled workers in this country for a longer period of time, there is a wide range of opportunities for training to be provided on a very broad basis. I think that this is an essential step and we can only agree with it with joy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9845	Next speaker: Mr Karl Schmidhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9870	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Mr. Max Lercher, we're from the same district, Murau, and I don't want to start a neighborhood dispute now, but you asked why Minister Fäsmann is not there. Please, we have our Lady Minister of Labour here, who is responsible for apprenticeships, who have constantly developed the teaching that has provided 3 000 euros of apprenticeship bonus for teachers in the crisis so that we can cope with the crisis better, and she continues to develop the teaching with us, with the companies and here with the People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if someone's missing, I'm allowed to get away from you: Mrs. Party President Rendi-Wagner is also not here on this important topic of youth, teaching and the future. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neßler.]] On the situation of the teaching colleague Kaufmann it referred to, 8 800 teaching places are open. [[Abg. Matznetter: Where is August Wöinger?]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Gustl, he's not here!]] That is to say, our teaching companies are looking for young people to train them to continue to have enough skilled workers available to the economy. Finally, these companies ensure that we are at the forefront in Europe with dual training, that we always come home with gold medals in all competitions – whether they are world championships or European championships for apprentices – because we are unmistakably successful in conjunction with teaching in Austria. With 15 of the regions, students often have to enter the city in a boarding school so that they can have a school education. We have 3 500 job seekers in Vienna, and I also expect these young Vienneses to come out to a teaching in the federal states – and that is reasonable – then we could reduce the lack of apprentices in the economy. I am good things that with this teaching, which is constantly being developed, we will also have in the future the specialists that the economy needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9930	There is now no mention of this in the word. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That’s not - – – I’m still talking about my sentence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mr Matznetter, the chairman of the Committee on Business Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Lightness indicates.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The rapporteur did not wish to conclude. I shall put the vote on this item on the agenda as agreed at the end of the debates on the submissions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Now I have a word for business treatment. – Please, Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e9980	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should just like to say that in the last presidential term it was discussed that Members may sit here in relaxed sitting order, and that both the gallery and the roof foyer are available to Members. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That is why I would like to stop those who like to do so from expressing their views on the presence or absence of Members, because it is quite possible that someone is on the gallery or in the attic foyer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10013	Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? - That's not the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] It is true that this was agreed at the Presidential Conference. [[11:53:06]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10056	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10083	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We have here another chapter of a certain rapid shooting of the government parties, namely the question of cooperative auditors and the cooperative revision. They will all have noticed that we are currently having another problem ahead of us. We need to clarify how something like the scandal of the Commercial Bank Mattersburg can have come about and then bring about an improvement. According to the confession of the Director General, the manipulations with air bookings and air accounts went far back, until the time when she was still part of the Raiffeisen Association - - - Oh, yes, he did! – Mr Haubner, he did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haubner.]] I do not blame the Raiffeisenverband – not at all – but it is about that we obviously have a situation in which several exam cascades do not have I've been working. There are huge gaps in our cooperative revision law. It has been found that the federal state of Burgenland only had to determine the examiner for the ownership of this bank, or – without capacity – could have examined it itself, because we do not have reasonable precautions in the event that no review association takes up a cooperative to be examined. There would be an urgent need for reform everywhere, and now the government is presenting an indebted bill on which there has not been an assessment in which the things that have come out in the course of this scandal have not been incorporated and which has not been sufficiently coordinated with the board of tax advisors and auditors. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that in such a case our approval is more than difficult and that is why we will abandon it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10137	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10162	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Matznetter, I think we have to separate two things quite clearly: What we are doing here today in the cooperative revision law is that we pursue a professional right of auditors and adapt to development. This is nothing but what we did for the auditors in 2017. Since that time, we've been dealing with this matter. If you claim here that there was no vote with the Chamber of Economic Trustees, then I must reject it, because the experts voted on 10 October. This year, composed of experts from the Chamber of Economic Trustees, who have also put forward a proposal which we have incorporated into this legislative amendment. It is not a question of working up the scandal in the Commercial Bank in Burgenland, because this is a completely different field, which is also very different from the paragraphs of this law that we decide here today. I have to say quite honestly, you're really a specialist and yourself from the subject, and I would expect that we'll be more serious about this – please! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That's what I'm talking about: It is only really a matter of adapting the European rules to be fulfilled and of following one or the other in professional law. I have to say quite honestly, this is very important for this profession. I would also like to make a very clear distinction here: Although the Commercial Bank was a cooperative bank, it was not in any cooperative association. They left because they did not want to take part in the good and tough examinations of the cooperative revision in the bank, so they took off. I have to say quite honestly, it seems to me as if – with a comparison you also understand – one is driving with a car and breaking all the laws – driving too fast, parking wrong – and then when he is arrested says it's the one that made the pickerl. This is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, he has to take responsibility himself! The responsibility lies with the Land Burgenland, with the criminal painterries that took place in the Commercial Bank, but certainly not with the cooperative auditors of the Raiffeisenbanken and of the Volksbanken. I would like to say this very clearly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also so important that we adapt this, because, I am really convinced, we need cooperative banks, regional finance providers for our SMEs. I believe that this is very important so that we can keep this high quality. In order to secure the provision of financial services in the regions, we need these banks and we need a proper revision. If we now qualify the auditors with this measure and adapt it to economic advisers, economic trustees, that can only be in the sense of all. I would therefore very much ask you to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10228	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10249	Madam President. Dear High House! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! Co-operatives enable sustainable, crisis-proof economies, and the issue of cooperatives in the government programme is therefore a real major priority. Bank associations were already talking about, but cooperatives are also available in many other areas: Housing cooperatives, various cooperatives such as barn and winery cooperatives have long been known in agriculture and – a very current topic – energy cooperatives. I think we agree that cooperatives, like companies, need an examination: the revision. That's what it's all about today. What we are doing is adapting the law that regulates this audit – the cooperative revision law – to the already adapted or amended law of auditors. There is therefore only one approximation, a few amendments to the linguistic wording and, by the way, the inclusion of a so-called escape clause. The training of the Revisor, the Revisor, is relatively expensive, and for those who cannot afford it, there is the possibility of obtaining the examination fees issued. That is something we absolutely welcome. In this sense, we are dealing here today with the examination of cooperatives. I think we agree that this is an important issue, and I therefore ask for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10280	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10304	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the preparation for this item on the agenda, I have been working a little bit on cooperatives and have found it surprising – perhaps as an information to all those interested in the hall and at home – how many cooperatives there are actually in Austria: There are about 1,500 cooperatives in various areas, which have become a real economic factor in the last decades – the origin dates back to the Middle Ages. As Mrs Götze has already said, this extends from the housing cooperatives to the heat-supply cooperatives. Alone in my home district Weiz is the same as 14 of these cooperatives, which are not a significant economic factor in the market. Economic factor, of course, means that there are revenues, not only from the commercial bank, but also from the other cooperatives – in the housing cooperatives, in many others – and this economic activity obviously needs control. I always say as mayor: There is nothing better than being well controlled, because this control also creates trust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This confidence, in turn, is based on training, based on the legal framework that we are creating today in order to give the revisioners and auditors of the future better resources and to equate them with the auditors in about the same way. In this sense, I would ask for approval of this law because it concerns confidence in cooperatives and thus confidence in a very significant economic factor in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10349	No one has made any mention of this debate anymore. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Energy and I continue on the agenda. [[12:04:07]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10389	We are now on the agenda item 12. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Christoph Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10416	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We have here a number of legal changes which, of course, are partly affected by the fact that we are under pressure from the European Union. In part, they are also due to the difficulties that have now become apparent in the course of the Corona crisis. We have a real problem with this civil engineering law novelle. The civil technicians would have wished for the implementation – they also had several opinions prepared, among others by the former Minister of Justice and ECJ Director Berger – that participation could not be watered down indirectly in such a way that at the end of the day a civil engineering society would be dominated by the sealing of non-civil engineers. I do not understand why this concern of the profession has not been taken into account just because one fears to get into a brief discussion with the EU. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, it is an old principle in Austria that the professional societies have the right to work, because otherwise we can save ourselves the whole thing and it simply buys someone into the corresponding profession. To be honest, one must be careful and also show a certain hardness in the legal formulation. I cannot therefore agree with a law which allows me to buy a civil engineer indirectly in the wake of the construction works or anyone else. I'm asking for understanding. I would also ask for increased caution in the future when it comes to other professions. There's no need to think, there's a question everywhere: How do we liberalize? I'm asking for more caution. A final point on the Chamber of Commerce Act: I would be very surprised if the Green Group agreed to this, because the toughest criticism of the provisions in there, in particular of the fact that the Economic Parliament is no longer crucial for the closure of accounts and the budget, was the Green Economy. The President-in-Office of the Council has a relatively short way to go to the President-in-Office of the Greens, to Mr Vice-Chancellor, so I do not understand why the Greens agree to this move. I'm just wondering, but we're going to take a close look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10458	Next speaker: Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10480	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Matznetter, I think that needs to be done. They are not surprised at all, because what is inside is actually not a great one, but a crisis mode that is now necessary to make decisions. This is not something that is said to change the greatest things here in the house, but it is just about how we take decisions in this Covid-19 period with a view to a limited period of time in different bodies. The problem of how to proceed at this time is quite familiar with a lot of associations and public bodies, and in concrete terms it is now about being able to decide on the 2021 budget. At this point, I would like to thank the thousands of employees in the Chambers of Commerce – in the Chambers of State, but also in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce on the Wiedner Hauptstraße as well as in the district offices. In particular, I would like to mention the 115 External Economic Centres in 85 countries in the world, which are now all concerned about doing their best during this crisis and doing a good job in this hard time. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] They have been allowed or need to take over completely unprepared new tasks, have very quickly and flexibly restructured at this time and thus demonstrated their willingness to use. Despite the massive declines in sales, which are there, all services are maintained high quality, which of course also leads to the need to resort to the reserves. This is in the interest of our economic location and in the interest of the stability of our country. It was now a necessity to act in this way, and this is a limited transfer of competence. There's no more inside – I just read it through: It is about temporary arrangements for circulation decisions by a simple majority, or the possibility of delegating, to delegate the decisions of bodies which cannot meet to other bodies. I also met with Herwig Höllinger and asked him what exactly was behind. It is perfectly understandable to me that what we are doing here should not actually be done when it comes to decisions: 200 people in a room, all over a day. That's actually not a good idea. Online, virtually, however, how many of us who work in international institutions know this, also very difficult: It is often technically difficult, it is difficult to register. It is therefore limited in time and refers only to Covid, and the involvement of all the groups of the Economic Parliament is guaranteed. Niki, you know, I value you, both as people and as constitutional judges, as experts. [[towards Abg. Scherak]] You brought an accusation. I was actually surprised that you did not speak and speak today, because it was the accusation of totalitarianism and that it was actually a constitutional scandal – that is what I think you called it. It can't have been that bad, I suppose, because otherwise you'd stand here today and emphasize that again, so that's probably not that dramatic. But it is simply due to the election result. The fact that you are not there is because you are playing in a lower, low percentage and the economic union – in this case – logically with almost 70 percent of all votes and with the functionals inside, but also all the others were actively involved. Those inside are very much involved. If you're strong enough, you're in the field, otherwise you'll have a place in the commentator box. The Economic Federation is the strongest, the broadest economic representative for large and small in Austria. Julius Raab, after the war, rebuilt the country out of rubble and ashes; at that time he built up the economic union, in the spirit of this confidence, founded our country again, the Chamber of Commerce, and I believe that we should continue moving exactly in this spirit of Julius Raab and on behalf of this confidence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Schellhorn.]] I put a quote from Julia's Raab on the wall in our business association in the office, because I think it's very nice. [[Abg. Schellhorn: 1.7 billion euros of deposits!]] - I don't understand. [[Abg. Schellhorn: We also love the Chamber of Commerce!]] – It’s acoustically, unfortunately, really difficult, I don’t understand it; I’d go into you immediately, you know, I like to do it. [[Abg. Schellhorn: (delighted) Yes!]] We have put a quote on the wall in the Economic Association, because I like it very much, as Julius Raab describes this spirit of his time: “The goal of every policy” – Raab said at the time – “is to safeguard the human being, his freedom and his dignity for us.” We can, I believe, all of us today retain freedom, dignity and the security of human beings. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Freedom!]] In this spirit of confidence, I think, we should also act and not make small, hateful games, if you don't even mention yourself again. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10588	Next speaker is Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10609	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear High House! Values Advisors! We're trying to keep up-to-date. corona, to avoid major events at all levels. An important level is the chambers in which sometimes huge events with hundreds, with thousands of members take place. There, too, it is important to avoid this – in the interests of the members, of the persons who should participate in it, but also in our all interest. There has therefore been an agreement with the chambers, in concrete terms: with the Chamber of Labour, with the Chamber of Commerce and with the Chamber of Civil Technicians – these are the largest chambers. There were proposals from the Chambers to avoid these major events. In essence, decisions do not have to be taken and postponed in part if, so to speak, an event cannot really take place because of corona. Some decisions can also be made virtually. It is, I believe, up to now that it is also granted to the chambers. Furthermore, some decisions should be taken by circulation if it is not virtually possible. In this sense: Of course, a Sunset clause is intended for all these processes of decision-making, i.e. they will apply by the end of the coming year and will only be used if necessary. The decision whether it is necessary is taken by all political groups together. In this respect, I believe that this is a good, contemporary solution, which will end again at the end of the coming year. I'm asking for approval! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10646	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10667	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Jeitler-Cincelli wanted me to explain why we reject this. I try again to show the political paradox of democracy, which is being tried in the Chamber of Commerce law: If a corresponding Economic Parliament or section meeting cannot be established for pandemic reasons, the responsibility should be transferred to the enlarged Bureau. That's legitimate. The problem is: Who decides whether, for pandemic reasons, the respective Economic Parliament cannot meet? – The enlarged Bureau. I try again, as in the Committee, to explain why democracy is insane: If, for the sake of the pandemic, Parliament could not meet and we would decide that the government alone would then take the appropriate measures, then we would not in life come to the idea of letting the government decide whether we cannot meet for pandemic reasons. This is a disaster of democracy, but obviously the access of the Economic Union to the Chamber of Commerce. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10706	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Smodics-Neumann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10728	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, the Economic Parliament is meeting to find that it does not come together – it is somehow a paradox if I may say so. Mr Scherak, I can assure you, however, because the supervisory authority is not put out of power. [[Abg. Loacker: That's ridiculous! The supervisory authority over the chambers is ridiculous!]] It is still provided for in the Economic Chamber Act: The three top principles are practicable, cost-effective and economical, and the supervisory authority – the Federal Minister is also here as the top supervisory body – and the control office also examines each individual billing. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Loacker]] Sections are independent legal entities, manage their own revenue and therefore have to take decisions as well. [[Abg. Loacker: Who is the Chief of the Control Office? The President!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: You are the electoral authority and...!]] This is provided for in organizational law, and I believe it is in all our senses. I can't possibly understand why there's a great excitement now when we all say here and everyone: Please avoid physical contacts! Please see that you can handle everything virtually as far as you can! – Some things cannot be dealt with virtually. When you say, For a year – although all the control and supervision possibilities still exist – we can suspend this in order to also do enough of the right of organisation!, I think we need not be afraid of that. I may be able to light up the side of the Vienna Chamber of Commerce: I think it is also in the sense of the approximately 900 employees of the Vienna Chamber of Commerce to reduce everything as far as possible to their protection, as we have been projecting it or as since March, where it has been handled legally in the Chamber of Commerce law, also possible. Also a warm thank you to the approximately 1 270 functionaries, who are now also intensively engaged in consulting activities. These are entrepreneurs who volunteer to help their colleagues. – A warm thanks for this great commitment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Then I can replicate very briefly and express a very personal invitation to Sepp Schellhorn – as you have addressed women's dressers' and men's dressers' apprentices –: I would like to invite you very cordially, when all this is over to come to my workshop. You meet me with a passionate tailor who is very, very happy to explain to you what the difference between women's dresser and men's dresser is. I can guarantee you, or I hope I can infect you with the passion, because I will convince you of it: In a women's jacket, you're not as sharp as in a men's bag.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10803	There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word. - That's not the case. [[12:19:16]] Vote on agenda items 10 to 12
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10827	We shall now proceed to the votes moved. I ask the clubs whether we can proceed with the vote without interruption. - Well, then I'll go like that. We are now voting on Agenda item 10, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 421 of the Supplements on 'The creation of teaching with a focus on digital production'. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[109/E]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Erwin Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of teaching places by the introduction of the Blum-Bonus-Corona. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Agenda item 11: Draft federal law amending the cooperative revision law, including title and receipt in 422 of the supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Vote on agenda item 12: Draft federal law amending the Chamber of Commerce Act, the Civil Engineering Act and the Chamber of Labour Act, including title and entry into 423 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of this bill? - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Third reading: The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. [[12:21:29]] 13. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the management and coordination of criminal and action execution – Series BUND 2020/10 (III-99/397, p.B.) 14. Point Report of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on criminal property tax – BUND series 2019/7 (III-23/398, D.B.) 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on interpretation and translation services in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice – BUND 2020/20 series (III-140/400 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10953	We shall now proceed to Agenda items 13 to 15, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. I very much welcome the President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors, Margit Kraker, in our midst and give the floor to Mr Andreas Kühberger as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e10983	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! I can now refer to the Court of Auditors' audit report on the The management and coordination of the Austrian execution of criminal and action. The years 2015 to 2018 were checked. Unfortunately, in these years, our judicial enforcement agencies have reached their limits of utilization. In 2018, for example, utilization is on average 95 percent. However, some institutions were also used to over 100 percent during this period. Why is that so? – The answer can be found if you look at the development more closely in recent years. Thus, the number of prisoners increased from 8 700 to over 9 100 from 2015 to 2018. To this end, the Court of Auditors sets out two reasons: the rise of mentally outlawed lawbreakers; and the rise in foreign prison inmates. Our perpetrators seem to take the European principle of freedom of establishment seriously, because in 2018 1 650 EU foreigners were detained with us. This corresponds to a share of more than 18 percent of the inmates. However, more than twice as large is the group of third-country nationals who are detained, and in this period it is exactly 3 300 people. Of the foreign prisoners, only 626 were transferred to the respective countries of origin between 2015 and 2018, and of these, only 26 were prisoners from third countries. It is already remarkable that the proportion of Austrian prisoners in Austrian prisons is 45 percent. However, this high burden also harms the inmates themselves, because a certain number – exactly 44 percent of the prisoners – did not have the opportunity to carry out work in the institutions. This, of course, is also a problem for society if the prisoners are released from prison and have to integrate themselves into society, but also into the working world. The Court also criticises that the Directorate-General has too few key figures. For example, there are no indicators about the utilization by execution forms and by group of persons. However, the Court of Auditors has noticed another construction site with regard to staff. It is therefore also difficult to recruit staff for the execution. Accordingly, the Court of Auditors' recommendations also focus on creating the best possible opportunities for resocialisation and ensuring appropriate medical treatment, especially in the case of mentally abnormal legal breakers. Above all, public security is of course also very, very important and to be guaranteed, and for foreign prisoners the detention is to be further promoted in the home country. This must also be the focus – and this he does – on: to implement it consistently and, above all, quickly, in order to carry out transfers of foreign residents to their home countries. So if you compare these observations from the Court of Auditors with the measures in the government programme, you can see that it is already in implementation and there are also some things in planning. In this way, we will be able to create a modern sentence here in Austria, which will meet the requirements of the Austrian judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11031	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11053	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I report briefly on the report on the execution of sanctions and measures, 2015 to 2018 were the years under review. I should like to draw attention to two points which have been particularly noted, namely that Justice institutions were sometimes very overburdened, overburdened. This was one thing, and it has been added that there have been massively frequent diseases of the staff, which, of course, with those who are still in service, leads them to get even more to their limits. How did one try to solve these problems? – Unfortunately, one has failed to provide an analysis of why diseases are so often consumed. What's positive: It has been set up on this subject as a police station for psychology. Coaching and supervision are now offered to the staff, which was really very necessary. How did you cope with the problem of lack of personnel? – One has tried to counteract this by means of advertising offensive. This has also been relatively successful, but – and this is a big but – one has simultaneously leveled down the criteria in the selection procedure. They all know how demanding and challenging the job of a staff member or a staff member in judicial guards is, and there it is really very worrying, and the Court of Auditors has considered this very critical if selection criteria are to be leveled down. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to make a brief comment on the second report. What's this about? – It’s about criminal asset depreciation. What does that mean? – This means that criminally generated assets are to flow to the government budget. As a result of a working group in the Ministry of Justice in 2014, a special unit for property law measures has been installed in several national capitals – so far, so good, but it has failed to eliminate the shortcomings during the trial operation, which took at least three years to operate normally. A very striking point I have to address is the following: There has been a huge discrepancy between the estimated revenue and the actually recorded revenue from criminal or criminally relevant events. We asked: How can it be that there is a discrepancy of 9 million euros to say and write? That was really remarkable, and the answer was: Well, it's been a misevaluation – but it's a really massive misevaluation. How did you fix that? There is now a clear decision on how to deal with such bookings. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying: One thing is quite clear on both reports: Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior needs to be significantly improved. I hope that the two departments will take the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11104	Next speaker: Mr Christian Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11128	Estimated Presidents! High house! I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors and their staff for this excellent report. This report reflects the situation perfectly, just as it stands in there, it is. The review period is 2015 to 2018, but the problems identified in this report are already relatively old, which has been around for years, not to say for decades. I am looking in this direction, because it is already significant that the ÖVP, which knows these diseases, I say, in the judicial institutions, in prison execution, has been putting the Minister of Justice since 2008 and has actually always put these problems aside elegantly and discreetly, because nothing has happened to a large extent. [[towards ÖVP]] What are the problems which the Court of Auditors has identified and which have existed for decades? – Overcrowded judicial institutions, too few staff, both judicial guards and professionals in the enforcement of measures, deportations to penal penalties in the home country take too long, in the EU countries mostly one year, because the national course is also a much more complicated and the process with the European Union does not work. Since, I always say, the European Union can make itself important and really do something: that the inmates quickly come to the right places to punish. Nothing happens from the EU side, but nothing happens from the Austrian Federal Government. The ÖVP Justice Ministers did not do anything about this. These are the problems that we have been carrying for years, for decades, where nothing has happened. And in view of that, it is already significant – we have been consulting the budget for days now, which was good – that there is more of this black and green federal government for 2021 zero judicial guard officers. This is clearly what we see – and the people should know that too – in the government groups, unfortunately, the government has not yet arrived where it is ill. As well as being easy to understand from this Court of Auditors report, Black-Green does not understand it, or does not want to understand that the disease rate among judicial officers is so high for the reason that many suffer from burnout, are overly burdened, are overly busy, and can no longer defend themselves any more than to flee to the hospital, otherwise they have far too few days off. This has to happen once, this has to be internalized. As long as the Federal Government or the ÖVP, which has been in the Federal Government for over 30 years, does not understand or do not want to understand, nothing will change this situation for so long. Then there will continue to be such Court of Auditors reports, but if you fold them back and don't act after that, unfortunately you have to say – nothing against your report, Madam President, that's a great report – it's a shame about the paper, then I don't know how to make it understandable to the EIA. This can only be done by the voters, but only by the judicial officials or executive officials can you understand that it is already five after twelve. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors once again and wish the criminal and action staff that they will return home in good health every day, that they continue to do such good work in the Austrian criminal service, a demonstration in Europe, despite this Federal Government which does not represent its interests. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11177	Next speaker: Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11198	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors, welcome you. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! I have to respond to Mr Lausch's statements, as was not expected, and I would like to put one thing right here: The staff in the judicial institutions do not flee to the hospital because otherwise they have too few days off, they are sick! They are sick because this system, just as you have said, is actually demanding more of them than they can afford. That is clear, we all know, and that is why we also know that we have to do something there, there is a massive need for action, we know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's not true either that there are zero staff for the judicial guard, that's not right. Rather, with the last budget we decided in the spring – it has not been so long since you could have forgotten – it has been very much invested in the judicial guard. Plans have been increased as long ago as it has not been created, a training module has been created that allows someone who is now starting his service in the judicial service to offer a perspective that he can bring it up to the head of the institution. This is a huge achievement and it is very important. As I have to say, it is absolutely true, I cannot expect to get a better staff structure together by reducing quality criteria, that is not going to work, that cannot work. The staff in the judicial guard have a very demanding job to do, it is a job that must be done 24 hours a day, seven days a week, that is so. It can't just be locked down for a short time, because so few people are there, that's not possible. That is, if there are too few employees, then those in service must work much more – and that makes them sick. They did not flee to the infirmary, but therefore they stayed at home to get well again. I really don't want to put this on these people, what you said. As I said, there has been a great deal of investment, and all the three Court of Auditors reports we have here show us exactly what happens when such an important system, such an important area as justice has been under-financed chronically over years. That's what comes out in all three areas. For example, in the field of capital depreciation: This is actually an area where one says that potential money could come from, but that doesn't happen, it doesn't come in because not enough can be invested in control mechanisms and, above all, in IT – not because you didn't want it, but because you couldn't. We now also have a massive budget increase, especially in the field of IT, which is why massive improvements can also be expected. It is also a very, very important instrument for achieving the principle that capital expenditure is indeed a very, very, very important one: Crimes must not be worth it. This removes money from organised crime and terrorism and reinvests in the economy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another very important area: the interpreters. We have not forgotten them, they are very important to us and they are also very important to the Minister for Justice. She told you in the course of the budget debate: It's working on it. That's something that's really urgent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To the end: Of course, the Minister for Justice is important, but also the other way round: The Justice Department estimates what the Minister of Justice has done for her. I think you all remember the picture with the small judicial guard body – you don't do that when you're just frustrated.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11261	Next speaker: Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11286	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now negotiating three reports together in this first debate on the Court of Auditors. All of them, I think, have already been mentioned by colleagues. From my point of view, it incorporates one thing in the Court of Auditors' evaluations, and that is that management in the Ministry of Justice does not work optimally; let us express it kindly once. No matter in which these three reports contain things that are classical management tasks, classical coordinations that simply work suboptimally. This is, for example, in the execution of sanctions and measures – there was already an organisational reform in 2015, but many things were simply not implemented. There is no overall strategy, there is no systematic quality assurance management. All these things are missing. This is also the case with the judicial institutions. The following comments were made: In 2019, we partly had more than 100 percent occupancy there, i.e. an overcrowding – which, of course, leads to a clear view of: There's a lack of management, because you're predicting things, you're anticipating things. The criminal asset tax has also been mentioned, as follows: In this area, rooms are wet, i.e. the walls are wet, that is, the good that is stored there comes away, is exhausted and loses in value, which means of course less revenue. There are inefficient island solutions there. In other words, each of these premises has its own computer system, its own structures, which in turn lead to all of this not interplaying, creating additional costs, and the management is simply miserable. This is also seen in the interpreting area – it was also addressed. There it is that there are sometimes too few interpreters in individual languages or none at all. There is also no strategy on how to develop in the long term, how to see in the long term what languages are needed more in the future, in order to set priorities there. In addition, we are also dealing with the problem of soldiers. The pay is relatively bad to express this again nice. There has been no increase there since 2007, on the contrary, in 2014 the disbursements were even levelled down – which means that there is, of course, a young problem and an ageing system, which in the long term – once again – leads to fewer translators and interpreters. That's a disaster. This management failure at all levels is, as it were, the reason for all these measures or the misbehaviour that is being committed in the Ministry of Justice. That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution on this matter: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request is so important because, as you have heard in my speech now, but also in those of my previous speakers, there are massive problems, all of which are well manageable through clear targets, through classical management. In addition, I have already addressed the question of wages or wages with the interpreters. There must also be changes in this area as soon as possible. I therefore propose a second motion for a resolution: Resolution by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues, on ‘Evaluation of the appropriateness of fees for experts and interpreters’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Justice is asked to evaluate the level of fees for experts and interpreters in the Fees Claims Act (GebAG) idgF as regards their adequacy. The evaluation shall take into account, in particular, the adequate provision of the judicial system with qualified experts and interpreters. The results of this evaluation may be reported to the National Council by Mrs Bundesminister as far as possible and any resulting legislative proposals." All of these things are relatively easy to solve when you really start to focus on the issue of management in the Ministry of Justice and are simply ready to take steps to tackle things as soon as possible and quickly as possible. Thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, for explaining this very well and well in these three reports. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[12:44]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11474	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Johann Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11501	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and in front of the screens at home! We have already heard of it, even in the course of the debate on the budget resources of the field of justice, the performance of interpreters and their payment has been addressed several times, even today. The Court of Auditors has submitted a report on interpretation and translation services in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. Why is this issue important? – Mr Kühberger has already carried it out: There is indeed a very high proportion of foreigners to be cared for both in the internal and judicial sectors. According to a police crime statistics, it's 40 percent of the suspects. In 2019, the proportion of foreigners in judicial institutions was around 54 percent, and the proportion of foreigners in the sentenced court was around 44 percent. This makes it clear that a quality and quantitatively very good interpretation is a prerequisite for good police work and, of course, for fair negotiations. A total of 3 762 people were registered in the Interpreting Register in 2019, covering a total of 176 languages. In the field of justice, there were 718 people and 52 languages covered by them. The problems have already been indicated by my previous speakers today, on the one hand, it is the high average age of these interpreters, as stated in the Court of Auditors' report at 59 years of age, and on the other hand, the fact that individual languages have not been covered; both Afghan and Farsi, but also African languages which were missing in this area. What did the Court of Auditors criticize? The lack of cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior, in particular, could be a source of synergies in the area of asylum and tourism. It should not be forgotten that a total of 32 million euros will be spent on interpreting in these two areas. The aim is, of course, to ensure an appropriate range of languages. The Court of Auditors therefore also proposes to define minimum requirements in order to ensure the appropriate quality and selection and appointment of interpreters. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the problems and objectives raised are taken into account in the government programme of our government. There, an evaluation and revision of the fees regulations of the experts and interpreters, in particular taking into account tariffs and quality criteria with a view to increasing attractiveness, is planned, which means a possible financial increase in tariffs. And, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the budget talks, our Minister of Justice has announced that the implementation of these objectives of the government programme is already in progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11553	Next speaker: Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11577	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Yes, my speech also concerns the court interpreters. Several construction sites in both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior have been identified in the 2015 to 2018 review. One and a half years ago, I gave a speech here that affected the remuneration of the court interpreters. At that time I said – perhaps you can remember – that the Dogwalkers deserve more than the court interpreters. It's not just that these interpreters have earned too little since 2007 – really little! – but it is also true that the Republic of Austria is a very, very bad client. You have to imagine: After the work done, these people have to place their honorary note within 14 days, paid sometime after months. I find this scandalous. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I do not think that the Republic needs to be treated by a professional group such as in the Middle Ages, such as the temporary workers or whatever. There are also black sheep among the service providers. If they're taken, they'll be shown. Why is that the Republic? I really don't think that's going into my head. In 2007, there was the last adjustment of the fees for interpreters and since then nothing more. This means a real income loss of 20 percent. Who would like such a thing? Why do you want to let the Republic like this? So this is really a relatively large construction site that needs to be approached and completed very soon. The Minister also said in the budget debate that she was confident. I'm just wondering where she takes this confidence if that's not budgeted. Where's the money? Where's this coming from? And who's negotiating with who? This has not been a truly satisfactory answer. That even those languages that are increasingly necessary are not being offered, I also do not think that they are something to boast of. The number of court interpreters is getting lower and lower, many are about to retire. So we should really worry about our case law, because it is very, very important people who play a major role in the case law. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, especially scandalous, I also find that when negotiations, court proceedings, agreements are cancelled in the short term, the ordered, booked court interpreters do not receive anything. Nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11629	Next speaker: Mr Alois Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11654	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Dear Seers! The increasing globalisation and associated international communication give an increasingly important role to activities such as translating and interpreting. In addition, there is a great need for translation and interpretation activities for courts and authorities. From October 2018 to March 2019, the Court of Auditors reviewed interpretation and translation services in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. The purpose of the review was to present the legal basis as well as to assess the selection and calculation of interpreting and translation services, quality assurance and control as well as the use of resources. In the course of the examination the Court of Auditors notes that there is a lot to be improved in the management sector. For example, the Ministry of the Interior is advised to ensure the legal provisions of the billing and to ensure a minimum level of evidence of training and language at the time of the re-entry of persons into the interpreting register. The Ministry of Justice, on the other hand, is intended to adapt the conditions for the registration in the interpreting lists and to reassess the testing and/or its expediency. In addition, in the course of its work, the Court of Auditors noted that there was no regular exchange between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and no cooperation in the field of interpreting, although it would have been appropriate for the total cost of 32 million euros per year. The two ministries were faced with the same challenges, particularly in the area of asylum and tourism, such as ensuring sufficient language provision or the selection and appointment of interpreters. Therefore, a deepening cooperation could lead to significant synergies. In future, the Court of Auditors recommends increased cooperation between the two ministries in this area. I very much welcome this, because this cooperation is ultimately also a huge potential for savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11690	The President has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Margit Kraker.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11711	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The debate is about three reports from the Court of Auditors on the implementation of sanctions and measures, criminal property deductions and interpretation and translation services in the judicial sector and the BMI, all of which are primarily concerned with the judicial sector. On the interfaces of these issues, however, it is always about the good cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior – and I want to say that at this point. The first report deals with the management and coordination of the execution of penalties and measures by the Directorate-General for Criminal Enforcement and the implementation of the measures to withdraw freedom. This is the Directorate-General, in which an organisational reform was made in 2015. It was shown that the content objectives of the organisational reform, namely the definition of an overall strategy, the implementation of concepts for the further development of criminal and action implementation and systematic quality assurance, have not yet been achieved. The examination brought two main challenges – and this has already been mentioned in the debate – first of all the high level of detention with partly insufficient detention capacity and second, the staff situation in the judicial service. They have already heard that the number of prisoners increased by 5.4 percent in the period of examination from 2015 to 2019. The increase in the implementation of measures was particularly strong. In the implementation of the measures, an increase of around 53 percent was recorded among the inadmissible breachors. A large part had to be housed in psychiatric hospitals because the capacities in the justifiable facilities did not suffice. The proportion of prisoners with non-Austrian citizenship was consistently more than 50 percent. The share of third-country nationals was about 36 percent. The judicial institutions, and in particular the prisons, had reached the target limit set at 95 percent, and partly also It's a clear exaggeration. It has therefore asked itself what possibilities the Directorate-General may have for the execution of the sentence or the judicial institutions themselves and which are acceptable for security reasons. For example, the Court of Auditors has recommended the increased arrangement of the electronically monitored house arrest or the increased transfer of foreign prisoners to the countries of origin – in particular the acceleration of the transfer procedures, but this is also dependent on international cooperation. The second point: The staff situation in the judicial guard shows – and has been discussed repeatedly – that there is a clear need for action. It is about sufficiently qualified staff, about the actual staff status and about the increased health status. It would be important, in the Court's view, for the criteria for personnel needs to be better addressed and for burden criteria to be developed for a needs-based allocation to judicial institutions, because the lack of human resources also affects the low employment of prisoners, which was on average only 2.59 hours a day. We have seen it as problematic that the selection criteria for recruitment have been reduced. We believe that this is a very difficult profession. Ladies and gentlemen, the necessary reform of the implementation of measures has been discussed since 2014 and is still open. The legislative process would have to be launched quickly. We know and we have also seen clearly how important it is that there are comprehensive and consistent measures to protect the population. The Criminal Enforcement Plan as a binding strategy for the management and further development of criminal and action enforcement, as well as enhanced cooperation between the participating departments – the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior – should provide a basis for action. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would just like to say the following: In order for it to be successful, there must also be a good cooperation between the prosecutor's office and the criminal police, and then to the interlocutory office at the Oberlandesgericht Wien. And: There have just been deviations between the assets declared in the judgments and the actual revenue. The declared assets amounted to around 10 million euros, but as revenue, only 0.9 million euros were booked. We see that there should be control measures, i.e. control reports and a corresponding IT. As far as the interpretation and translation services are concerned, we have made this audit because we have already seen in the 2015 financial statements defects in the accounts and in the budgetary accounting. However, the use of interpreters and translators is very important for the topic of a fair procedure and must be ensured. The total cost of interpreting in criminal proceedings amounted to around 32 million euros each year, at 36 million euros in 2016. The BMI launched measures and introduced a central digital interpreting register in 2018, but there would also be a minimum level of quality at the linguistic level as important to us. In the field of the Ministry of Justice, there is a well-known list of court interpreters by which the courts and prosecutors can rely on judicially sworn interpreters. There is also an examination of the technical suitability. However, we have found that not all languages have been covered and that the number of persons listed in the list has declined, so that the award has also been made outside of that list of court interpreters. That is why we have recommended that the judicial body: evaluate the possibilities for registration in the court interpreter list and the related audit system and adapt it to the current requirements. As far as fees are concerned, we have noted that these were last adopted in 2007 and adapted to the changed economic conditions. There is evidence that there is a need for discussion on the basis of objectively justified criteria. As far as cooperation between the two departments in this area is concerned, there was an opinion from the judicial unit, in which it was expected that the Interpreting Register of the Ministry of the Interior might be applied in a subsidiary manner if no one else is available. This would also be a way of solving the existing problems. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11791	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors and continue to complete the agenda. [[13:04:22]] 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on lobbying and representation of interests – BUND 2019/45 series (III-65/399 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11828	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. There was also no oral reporting. Mr Hermann Gahr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11858	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, a so-called lobbying and interest register was introduced in 2013. The Court of Auditors has examined this in the period June to August 2018. He compared the current legal bases with international standards and, of course, also assessed implementation. Overall, the Court of Auditors has focused on four areas: on the one hand, the costs of this register, on the completeness and accuracy of the information, on the benefit of citizens and on the overall achievement of the objectives of the register. There have been many, many suggestions and recommendations from the Court of Auditors. A total of 30 recommendations were made by the Court of Auditors. What is this register for? – It is not, in fact, prohibited to operate lobbying, but it is about those who work in this field to comply with existing rules and not to influence policy-makers and decision-making processes. It is about the need for standards and procedures, and it is about us dealing openly and transparently with this issue. The fact is: With the introduction of this register, Austria has gone a very exemplary way. In a few countries there is such a register – currently in eight, then in 13 countries as a whole. It is precisely about the fact that the Court of Auditors is calling for more transparency. It needs an overall review, and it needs not only national but international standards. A brief comparison shows that there are quite differences in the EU in this regard. There are also three countries that apply so-called soft regulations in the lobbying area. The situation in Austria is very similar to that in other countries. It is positive to mention that, as Mrs Justice Ministers in the Committee indicated, this lobbying register is currently being evaluated and a working group has been set up in the Ministry. There, I believe, are also very willing to implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations. 19 recommendations are currently being implemented and the further recommendations of the Court of Auditors will also be examined in this evaluation group. The Federal Minister has assured her that she will take the Court's recommendations seriously and will endeavour to implement them as well as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11904	Mr Philip Kucher came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11928	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Lobbying Act in Austria today, and it is positive that the Minister of Justice has announced that there will be a working group and that the Lobbying Act will continue to be evaluated in Austria. I think we all have a right to learn how laws come into force in Austria. It would be important for us in Austria to get something like a legislative footprint, which makes it quite clear who has influenced the lawmaking process. Another point we should all discuss, I believe, has been events in the recent past, which still need to be clarified and in the context of which Austria has a lot of homework to do. These are developments, unappropriate developments that we, I believe, do not want to have in Austria all that we normally know only from the USA, where huge corporations are trying to influence politics. I just read a study: If you look at the price trend for medications in the US, if you look at how alone insulin has exploded compared to Europe, then we note that we need to introduce corporate interests as well and that there should not be such unappropriate large donations to politics in Austria. Unfortunately, we have all had to experience a lot of things with each other, and above all I ask colleagues Gahr and the Austrian People's Party to say to each other: Stop, we do not want to have such large donations anymore, for it must not even appear that there is some kind of influence on political activities! [[Complementary of the Abg. Greiner.]] – Mr Greiner is very sensitive, I am very pleased, but I think that would be a common issue for all of us. The question is that: Why are 25,000 euros, 50 000 euros in total, donated from beauty clinics to the ÖVP? [[Call: Insanity]] Is that just how you do it? Why are hundreds of thousands of euros passed on from large corporations to the ÖVP? Under Sebastian Kurz, there have been developments in Austria – there has never been! – that hundreds of thousands of euros are donated to the EIA, and the question is: Is there a behind-thinking, or is that just how you do it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] Personally, if you have money left, everyone is willing to donate for the animal protection club, for the Red Cross, for the fire brigade – and that is important! – but the Austrian People’s Party is definitely not an animal welfare association. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofinger]] Everyone knows who is actually responsible for animal torture in Austria, so the more important it would be to know how these developments come about and why tens of thousands of euros have always found their way to the People's Party. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Perhaps we can discuss and clarify this. It is important to me that not so unappetising things remain in the room here, so I may ask again. The 50 000 euro donation to the EIA has also been a major topic in the Committee of Inquiry: Maybe we can figure this out today so that there won't be anything left in the room.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e11996	The next speaker is Wolfgang Zanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12020	Mr President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Kucher, you're right! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] I just want to know, and ask you the question of whether the questions you have now asked to the ÖVP will ever be answered. Surely not, because we know: Where transparency insists, ÖVP is inside – we have also noted that in the Committee. [[Complementary by members of FPÖ and SPÖ.]] I'll invite you: Let's make two a project: Get out with the soot! because then the whole thing becomes a bit brighter, more transparent and you know each other again. This is precisely what the Court of Auditors has stated in its main criticism: there is no transparency in this lobbying law for the public, yes, that it is not even possible to determine in which areas lobbying is carried out at all. That's actually just a headline in the law, according to the motto: We have to do something about it because we had the tramper in our ranks! We've got to get rid of this black spot we've got now! Let's just write a law with a title – what's in it is actually totally toothless. This has also been quite clear from the criticism of the Court of Auditors. The lack of data and the fact that the Court of Auditors has found 36 entries which did not fit, in any case, is only surprising. It is therefore important – the Court of Auditors has said so too – to evaluate the law. Yes, Mrs Zadić has said that she will do so with a working group, and since the Greens voted against this law at the time, it would now be a broad field of action for the minister to whom she can dedicate herself by writing reasonable paragraphs. In this sense, I hope that she will do the same. What happens, though, when the ÖVP is back on its way?- Oh, my God! I dare to doubt again that something is going to happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12068	Mr David Stögmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12093	Mr President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are dealing with the lobbying transparency law, a subject which is also very important to me personally, because the investigation committee on suspected buyability of the turquoise-blue Federal Government is one of the central questions we have: Can rich people buy laws in Austria? If we look at this question, we also have to ask ourselves the question: How do you deal with buying a law? How's it going? There is, of course, the way to go directly to a decision-maker and say what you would like: What do you want? – I remember – Mr. Zanger has just spoken: Your party is also important when it comes to law purchase, if not even one of the main suspects. [[Abg. Singer: Yes, exactly! Yes, exactly!]] That's exactly the sentence. What can I do to make your industry work better? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what other way is there? To make this a little more discreet, for example, there is lobbying. Don't misunderstand me: It is not necessarily something bad or objectionable to bring his ideas and ideas to a Member of Parliament – many NGOs also have a great interest in allowing insights that they have gained in their daily working life to be incorporated into the legislative process. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] That's good and right. Through special expertise, expertise can make a valuable contribution to deliver impulses and inputs to the legislator, so all of us here, how certain areas can be better regulated. What we all know, however, is that there are many stakeholders who want to create favourable laws for them with a lot of money – mostly for the benefit of less and for the harm of many. That's where the problem lies: In order not to have their fingers dirty, one sends professionals who specialize in influencing legislation in the interest of a client. Apart from very few cases where such transactions are only somehow re-appeared by parliamentary investigation committees or are brought before the curtain of the political stage – for example, I am thinking of the Eurofighter scandal or the Eurofighter discussion – these lobbyists mostly remain in the dark. This is a condition that the population is also quite conscious and rightly sorry, because it always sounds like a back room deal somewhere in the dark chamber, after agreement and benefits. What does this lead to when people no longer know what is happening in the background and who intervened for what? – It gives them the feeling of powerlessness, and that is right. In fact, there is only one solution we need to address: You have to fight the causes. And how can you do that? – By taking influence on political decision-makers and lobbying from the back room in front of the curtain. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The population has the right – it has the right! – to know why a politician has voted for something he has been influenced by which lobbyists have contributed. That – and really just that, ladies and gentlemen! – is transparency that restores the power of voters to be able to express their own opinion in full. This disclosure of lobbying was also the objective of the current lobbying law, but there has also been some wrong, as we know; it is already beginning by not even checking whether lobbyists have entered the lobbying register at all. But even if they have done so, there is no obligation to indicate the client. That is, we don't even know who worked for him and what he did for him. These problems often get too hot, so we don't know who talked about it when. I am very glad that we want to change something. And since Greens are not only bothering us, but are important to us a clean policy and a central concern, we have also discussed and discussed in detail the problems of this law with our Minister of Justice, and I am glad to be able to tell you here that, despite the corona crisis, we are addressing this very problem. In the next few weeks, a working group will be set up in the Ministry of Justice to develop a reform of the lobbying law to bring political influence by lobbyists to the curtain and political stage, because it is not in the interests of voters and democracy when empires can buy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12148	The President of the Court of Auditors spoke on an opinion. - Please, Mrs. Dr. Kraker.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. One of the international recommendations is that states should regularly review their lobbying regulations and make necessary adjustments on them. This has been done by the Court of Auditors in its examination of the implementation of the lobbying law by the Ministry of Justice, namely to see whether the regulation works and is sufficient, and we have identified shortcomings. The aim of lobbying regulations is to develop principles, standards and procedures that ensure that lobbyism is sufficiently open and transparent, in particular the influence of policy-makers and, in particular, the legislative process. Yes, Austria is one of the eight EU Member States that have a lobbying regulation at the legal level, and yes, the lobbying register, which is run by the Ministry of Justice, has significant gaps, as there are numerous exceptions, and international standards have only been partially taken into account when implementing lobbying regulation. To this end, the Court of Auditors welcomes the establishment by the Ministry of Justice and the Federal Minister of Justice of a working group on greater transparency, where the Court of Auditors will present its report, recommendations and position. There are still a few things to be done with regard to the compliance with international standards. There is a manko in the data in the lobbying register: These were not complete and are not in the final position. With regard to publicly available data, the focus is rather on the disclosure of economic data and the extent of the cost of lobbying, but information is not provided for who communicates when in whose order for what purpose, so that one has no knowledge of the conditions under which decisions are made. From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, its competence is only in the management and administrative support of the lobbying register. We miss a proactive Role of the Ministry. We believe that the Ministry would at least be responsible for verifying the plausibility of the registered data and for checking a complete data entry. We are also convinced that, out of its implementation function, the Ministry can point to existing transparency weaknesses. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12215	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Here again, as agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Court of Auditors. [[13:21:14]] Vote on agenda items 13 to 16
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12242	We shall now also proceed to the vote on the reports of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if an interruption is desired. - That's not the case either. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the management and coordination of the execution of penalties and measures, III-99/397 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on criminal property tax, III-23/398 of the Supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for signs. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on interpretation and translation services in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, III-140/400 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on improving judicial administration. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues, on 'Evaluation of the appropriateness of fees for experts and interpreters'. Who is for that, I ask him to sign the consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on lobbying and representing interests, III-65/399 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:23:39]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on motions for resolutions 836/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, Mag. Meri Disoski, colleagues on women's health: Breast cancer early detection during the Corona crisis (414 d.a.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on amendment 837/A(E) by Mr Mag. Meri Disoski, Kira Grünberg, colleagues on the preparation of light-language information brochures on gynecological screenings for women with disabilities (415 d.e.c.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment No 729/A(E) by Mr Rosa Ecker, Mr MBA, colleagues on the recording of the health status of young women in Austria (416d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12392	We now come to points 17 to 19 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Rosa Ecker is the first to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12419	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home! We are negotiating three agenda items under one: Yes to the request “Creating information brochures in light language on gynecological screenings for women with disabilities” and also a yes that the breast cancer early detection program be reintroduced – because of course, we are also in favour of it going back, as well as the therapies and aftercare. But please. Who even suspended the invitation management for the early recognition program, and why? The suspension of this programme alone recorded 40 percent fewer breast cancers and early detection. And only women older than 45 and younger than 69 years of age are actively invited to the breast cancer examination; this is clearly age discrimination, and this is what the Council of Seniors sees as it is. I submit a request and hope for your support: [[Quoted print version removed]] I come to the third area: My request for “constitution of the health status of young women in Austria” was rejected – with the inconceivable justification of the ÖVP, she fears a compulsion there. Ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly many ideas as to how a voluntary investigation could be forced, as I understand the driver's license examination, how, in the context of a free health examination, young women are certainly moved to benefit from them, and we would have this data. Why is the overview so important? – Because the measures in the Women's Health Action Plan could in fact be adapted to the starting data. We know that in 2017, more than a quarter of the young men in charge of employment did not meet the minimum health requirements, in 2019 it was already a third: Obese weight, spine problems, depression, addiction, heart disease and so on, even tumours were diagnosed there and some life was already saved there. That is, for young men we have this data situation. The health status of young women is not interesting and not important for the Minister of Health and obviously also for the Minister of Women, and – and yes, that terrifies me especially – it is also not important for the opposition parties SPÖ and NEOS. This is inconceivable, that is incredible and it also makes it incredibly affected, and it is at the expense of the health of the women in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12543	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dipl.-Kffr is now on the floor. Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12568	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! First of all, I would like to thank our President Sobotka very much for allowing the promoters of the Orange the World campaign to advertise their campaign here in the Hohe Haus. It's about 16 days against violence against women, and I think it's not often enough to point out that this campaign will start next week. It begins on Wednesday, 25 November, but Mr President has already put the documents on us today, because we do not have a plenary session next week. [[keeping a folder with the title “Orange The World” in height]] I said yesterday in my speech that the protection of women from violence and the protection of children from violence is a general task, and therefore I would like to call on all of you here in the House, but also all of you in front of the screens, to participate in this campaign from next week. It is important that we detach this taboo theme, that as much as possible is discussed in the media and in society about violence against women and children. Every single person who takes care of women and children who interferes, who sees that no violence can happen, is important. Therefore, my call: Please, let's go! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] But now to the current proposal: It's about breast cancer screening. Mrs Ecker has already said this: There has been a breast cancer screening program in Austria for some years, called “early recognition”. This program is highly praised by physicians. It has a very good invite management: Women between the ages of 45 and 69 are currently invited to breast cancer screening every two years. This is of course free for women, it will be paid by the health insurance fund paid. Of course, all other women – whether younger or older – can also report if they believe they should be examined, and they also receive the costs normally paid by the health insurance company. My colleague Meri Disoski will say something about the request made by Mrs Ecker that the age limit should be lifted upwards. As I said, there is this programme. It also runs very well in the normal case, approximately 4 600 women per year suffer from breast cancer, and through this screening program these diseases are discovered. Unfortunately, unfortunately, about 1,500 women die every year from breast cancer. During the lockdown in spring, however, it was so that the invitations for screening were partially exposed. Doctors have then alarmed that in the time of the lockdown approximately 40 percent of the mammary carcinomas have been discovered, and that does not mean that they are not there, but that they have not been discovered. In fact, we all know that early detection is very, very important in this case, so of course it is also a great concern to all of us that this cannot happen anymore, that no matter what situation we are in, in which situation the health system is in, or at what stage of the crisis we are, such screenings can be used as well as otherwise, and that the women and also people who have other diseases are alerted accordingly to the need for precautions. I believe that with our request, we are sending a signal that women's health is incredibly important to us, and I would like to call on all of you – in front of the screens – to do so, not to leave out any precautions because now is a crisis. All doctors have opened their ordinations, and everyone who needs treatment will also be treated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12628	Next speaker is Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12652	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I am always involved when it comes to extra-participal, over-grouping a sign of women's solidarity. It is only a little a pity that we had twelve requests on the agenda on the last equal treatment committee and only three left on the agenda today. Nine have been postponed. I would like to take two examples. For ten years, we have been working to eliminate discrimination against gays, lesbians, bisexuals, inter- and trans-persons in private life. It hasn't succeeded yet. Almost all countries in Europe have decided on the so-called levelling-up, but Austria is against it. Who's against it? – I don’t know why Turquoise and Green still don’t agree that a gay couple, without being discriminated against, can rent an apartment that a lesbian couple, without being discriminated against, can rent a room in a hotel, and why it is still possible to discriminate and rule out these people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic]] That should finally belong to the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second area: the very important question of pay transparency in this country, which has long been discussed. It is not possible to take a step beyond the statutory income reports, that we can also cover smaller companies, that we can also make this transparency possible in-house; not all To make everything accessible – that is probably not possible for more than 100 years in Austria, unlike in Sweden or other advanced countries – but we should take at least one next step and make these income reports at least uniform, which your predecessor, Mrs. Minister, Juliane Bogner-Strauss, wanted to enforce, because it was in the government programme and because she was herself behind it, but which has not succeeded. We should also provide these income reports with a little more components, namely not only in which group men and women deserve as much, but also a little in detail: Who's working part-time? Who is full - time employed? Who gets Boni? Who gets more overtime fees or other? I would really like to see women's solidarity. It would be important for us to keep together across all the political groups and to ensure that these income reports, which are to be placed on the inside, also bring a little more transparency to workers so that they can defend themselves if they are paid less for the same work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My last point, ladies and gentlemen: On Monday and Tuesday, an online violence summit will take place. I think that's great. I think that's great. I'm just wondering, and Mrs. Minister, maybe you can help us in your statement: The Austrian women's ring with more than 40 individual organizations has received no invitation. I don't know who was invited. I signed up. Maybe. They give us information about who is wanted and who may be less desirable. Who gets invitations, who doesn't? This week we also had an online conference with Allianz non-violent, and colleague Pfurtscheller and colleague Disoski were there. The despair there is partly very large, insofar as the employees get to their capacity limits, due to the women affected by violence. We are all proud to wear this button for the next 16 days, but also before and afterwards a lot must happen for the protection of women from violence, and I would have expected more. [[the speaker points to the plug with the inscription “Stops the violence of women” on her revers]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12722	Mrs Meri Disoski is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12743	Mr President. Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a thank you and join where Mr Heinisch-Hosek has stopped. My thanks goes to all those who work in violent centres, intervention agencies, women's homes and women affected by violence, and women who have experienced violence, and support and support them – thank you very much for your work! We know how valuable and important it is, thank you very much! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Yes, you are quite right, Mrs. Colleague. The organisations are also at their capacity limits because they have not been done for ten years. That's why we're doing something now. We have now increased the budget of the Ministry of Women, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, and we are strengthening the protection of violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] That's important to us, that's central. Please stop saying other things! That's not all right. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In the last equal treatment committee, we unanimously decided on two proposals on women's health. Women's solidarity keyword: I am very pleased that It has succeeded in taking these decisions unanimously across borders. Today, we will also vote in favour of the opposition proposals on the subject. Important is: The better we work here, the more we can achieve. One of these applications focuses on the breast cancer early detection program. We've already heard: Every eighth woman gets breast cancer in the course of her life. During the first lockdown, it was so that the loading management did not work so well, so we have now submitted a request to the Minister of Women and the Minister of Health to ensure, in close cooperation with the federal states, which are also responsible and responsible for ensuring that this is carried out closely so that we can maintain the health care for women during the second lockdown. That's important and good that way. I would also like to turn to all the women who watch and tell them: Please go to the precautionary examination, she can save your life! Please go! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There were reports during the first lockdown that women were forced to wear a mask at birth. Of course, this is absolutely unacceptable for women. The supply of oxygen is of central importance in the event of a birth and the well-being of women. The Minister of Health has also made it very clear very quickly that women, of course, do not have a mask to wear at birth. I also appeal to the competent health counsellors, hospital operators and medical staff to handle them accordingly. Of course, it is not right for women to be able to, and should not be forced – quite the contrary – to wear a mask at the birth of their child. Please don't do that! There were also reports during the first lockdown that abortions in public hospitals were no longer performed. To this end, the Ministry of Health has clearly stated that abortions are, of course, indispensable medical interventions to be performed. This is of course also true in the second lockdown. Every woman in this country should know. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll finish. We try – also in solidarity with civil society, with women's organisations – to do everything we can to strengthen women's rights, self-determination rights. This is different in other countries. In other countries these are seriously challenged, for example in Poland, which already has one of Europe's strictest abortion laws. A de facto abortion ban is to be introduced. Hundreds of thousands of women and men have been demonstrating this proposed change of law for weeks. We Greens are in solidarity with these women and the protesters in Poland. That's important to say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12831	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12856	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! We have been told for years now that we have been calling on us to carry out preventive investigations. Many of us have also internalized this, and that is good, because prevention and prevention are always the best strategy to stay healthy, and early detection is also part of prevention. In recent months we have subordinated much of the corona pandemic, often also apparently the course of the precautionary investigation, and that is not so good. Cancer doesn't know a lockdown. Some data on this: According to the Breast Health Centre of the Medical University of Vienna, 40 percent less breast cancer was diagnosed during the lockdown because many precautions were postponed or cancelled. Some have now been picked up, but the number of screenings is still 15 percent below that of the previous year. Corona also has an impact on breast cancer early detection in Austria. This has also been noted in the UK. There are studies and estimates of a substantial increase in avoidable mortality in cancers. This is particularly true for breast cancer in well-treated early stages. Health Österreich GmbH also carried out an evaluation in August 2020, which showed that shifts in cancer diagnosis are very problematic and hospital stays in the first lockdown have decreased by 20 percent. In the case of breast cancer operations themselves, this continued in May, i.e. after the lockdown. The number of breast cancer operations has decreased from around 500 to 350 in March 2020, and since then the number has increased only very slowly. The reason was that diagnostics and mammographies have been postponed because cancers are associated with the covid risk group, which are of course also very afraid to become infected in the hospital. The problem is that these diagnostics can become apparent at a later and thus more dangerous stage of the disease. Last but not least: Initial results of a current Austrian survey of the medical chamber show that the frequency of screening studies in March and April has decreased by 70 to 80 percent, and that is already a lot. Above all, this means that these asymptomatic early stages of cancer are simply not discovered, and we should not forget that not only is cancer asymptomatic, but also Covid, which is a major problem for patients at risk. We therefore support the request concerning breast cancer early detection. I would, however, like to lose one more word. It was very surprising that the effectiveness targets for breast cancer screenings in the health budget were reduced. In 2019, it was 51 percent of women who participated in breast cancer early detection programs between the ages of 45 and 70. Now you want to reach only 45 percent of women. Someone has to explain that to me. – Thank you, and stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12907	Ms MMag.a Dr.in Susanne Raabzu spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12931	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to thank the House for being able to talk about this so important issue of women's health today. It is important to focus on this because women simply suffer differently from men. Gender health research has already made many important findings in recent years, for example, that cardiovascular diseases in men bring different symptoms than in women. Such findings show clearly how important it is that we also have a women's policy approach in the health field, in health research, in health care and in the training of the relevant staff. These include, for me, the strengthening of women's health skills and the further advance of early detection measures. We must ensure that, with prevention measures, we reach all women well, that all women are well informed and that they have low level of access to advice when they need it. Women with disabilities must take particular account of information offers. In this context, I would like to thank Parliament for its motion for a resolution on the creation of easy-to-language information brochures on gynecological screenings for women with disabilities in the last equal treatment committee. Women and, of course, men who are well-informed are more likely to go to the precautionary examination. Personally, the topic of breast cancer prevention is a very special concern, as breast cancer is the most common cancer in women. Statistically, every eighth woman in her life is once confronted with the diagnosis of breast cancer that affects not only the women themselves, but also the family and the people in her environment. October is therefore with good reason for the month of breast health, which is why last month I placed a special focus on breast cancer early detection, breast cancer prevention and the so important awareness raising. Thank you all for supporting me. The free breast cancer early detection program, which is aimed at women between 45 and 69 years of age, is considered to be the most reliable method for early detection of breast cancer. It must therefore be our common goal that all women benefit from this program and also go to mammography if they get an invitation, and this also during the corona pandemic. I would like to make one very clear: Yes, we currently have high covid numbers and associated restrictions and also foreseeable loads of our health system. Nevertheless, it is important that prevention programmes continue to take place that women's health and prevention are top priority – and that is what they have. I would like to thank Parliament for adopting a resolution on this subject. As regards the specific research mentioned earlier, I can tell you that there is really much to be done in the field of breast cancer research and also in the area of monitoring in the healing process in Austria. In particular, I was able to convince myself last month, for example, in the Anna Mirror Research Building in the AKH, where there is a so-called Cancer School – a very innovative project of MedUni Wien, which makes the disease cancer and the treatment options more easily understandable and accessible to patients and their relatives, including family members in the healing process and explaining them to the children. From my point of view, the Cancer School is a very great tool to take the fear of giving patients more health competence and thus more safety in the healing process and in dealing with the disease. I am therefore working with the initiators of the Cancer School to develop a concept of how to digitise the advice of educationally valuable and to make it available to many more women and their families. With regard to the measures of your motion for a resolution and other health concerns, particularly in the area of women's policy, I have a good cooperation with the competent Federal Minister for Health and I am pleased to continue to be able to promote priorities in the area of women's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e12998	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr has made an actual correction. Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13022	Mr President. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek said earlier that the Austrian women's ring had not been invited to the summit on violence. I'm actually correcting: He is very likely to have been invited to the Summit on Violence, which will take place on Monday and Tuesday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Mrs. Maria Rösslhumer, who is also part of the Austrian women's ring, even speaks at the summit on violence, and Mrs. Claudia Friben yesterday confirmed her participation by e-mail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13055	Mrs Kira Grünberg has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13080	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! First of all, I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution 837/A(E) on the creation of easy-to-language information brochures on gynecological screenings for women with disabilities. Women with disabilities are a disadvantaged group in gynecological screenings, which has shown us various studies. A quarter of women with disabilities are not going to any gynecological precautions, and only every ninth woman with disabilities regularly uses gynecological precautions. There are various reasons why this is so. One essential reason is the lack of accessibility-free information, for for example, women with learning weaknesses depend on information in light language and deaf women on the translation into the Austrian sign language. In the future, women with disabilities will be better informed, as the Minister of Health and the Minister for Women are invited to produce and distribute relevant information materials. I would also like to stress the importance of involving experts and self-affected women with disabilities in the preparation of the information brochures. But now I would like to come to another point, because it simply fits perfectly to the agenda today. We are talking about women's health and women with disabilities on these agenda items. There's a great initiative including Discovering Hands. Some of you may already know them, and I want to introduce them a little better now. Discovering hands train blind and highly visually impaired people to perform the test diagnosis for breast cancer early detection. The Key Sense is more pronounced in blind and visually impaired people. Thus, much earlier than experienced gynecologists and gynecologists, they can scan knots in the chest. However, the professional image of the medical-tactile investigator is not yet recognised in Austria. An effectiveness study has been carried out, which has also been handed over to the Ministry of Health. I very much hope that this field of work will be recognized in the future. I would also like to encourage all women over the age of 40 to go to Discovering Hands and to be examined there, because they not only do something good to themselves for their care, but also help establish a new professional image for blind and visually impaired people and also create a method for breast cancer early detection in Austria. Through the Discovering Hands initiative, a disability becomes a gift and also promotes health. This is my living inclusion!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13128	The next speaker is Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13152	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! We are discussing two requests from the government parties today, and it has been pointed out several times by my previous speakers how important these applications are to women in the field of health. Of course, we also support both initiatives of content when it comes to maintaining the breast cancer early detection programme under all circumstances, or when it comes to creating barrier-free brochures for disabled women in the gynecological field. Both are very important. Mrs Minister, I am pleased that today you are probably getting the great and broad support of all the parties in these requests from Parliament. However, I think it is also the responsibility of a minister to ensure that gender-specific health programmes are maintained in any case and without any redundancies, especially in a health crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also discussed in the Committee our proposal, the Women's Health Plan, jointly prepared by the Ministry of Health and Women from 2017 onwards, which sets out 40 specific measures for young women, for girls, for older women, for women in the working age, for migrants, for women with disabilities. These are all important objectives that have been negotiated together with experts. Unfortunately, you have postponed this request in the biggest health crisis for 100 years. However, we are going to make this request again today, and I am pleased that you have announced that you will support it today. I would like to thank you for this. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. Since the 16 days against violence have been referred to several times, I would like to conclude by saying: Sexism and violence, no matter what form, must in any case be condemned to the Alleral's sharpest. Mrs Minister, I would also have expected a specific opinion from you. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:57]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13274	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Heike Grebien is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13301	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Dear Colleagues! Appreciate Seers! For many years, it has rightly been complained that women with learning difficulties and deaf or hearing impaired women are not sufficiently informed about gynecological precautions. As you have heard, this is changing, and I hope you will vote for it today. We have tabled this motion for a resolution in the last committee on equal treatment on the green initiative. Mr Grünberg has already mentioned it, but I would like to repeat it because I believe it is important: Several national and international studies show that a quarter of women with disabilities do not undergo any gynecological precautions and that only every ninth woman with disabilities regularly uses gynecological precautions. The reasons are, among other things, missing information for women with disabilities in the appropriate form. In particular, brochures in light and understandable language as well as in ÖGS enable women with disabilities to learn about gynecological precautions, take them the fear of the first investigation and inform them of appropriate low-level advice. The importance of information material in light language is demonstrated, among other things, by the results of an Austrian-wide study, in which 35 percent of people with disabilities reported information about sexuality and gender-specific health through appropriate materials and brochures. I also say this to my colleague, Prince, who said yesterday, that brochures do not help. Furthermore, a third of people with disabilities are not informed about sexuality and gender-specific health. I have already made a small excursion to the issue of sexual education of people with disabilities. It is necessary to be able to talk unafraidly about sexuality in order to solve uncertainties and thus also prevent sexual violence. However, this brochure will also be helpful for caregivers and accompanying persons. Why? – I explain it to you on the basis of an experience report from a caregiver: I accompanied a woman with learning difficulties, with whom I first visited a female doctor. Of course, I was with a female doctor myself before, but I had never thought about it very carefully before: What exactly is being done and why? Which diseases are prevented from doing so? Why should I take my breast off, and what should I keep in mind? In order for my client to be well prepared, we then worked out brochures together for young women, translating them into easy language conversations. With a brochure in simple language, this would have been easier for all of us, and the young woman would have gone to the investigation even more safely and could have read it independently in case of demand. - Quote. A small side effect, my Ladies and gentlemen, this brochure: More gynecologists are being alerted to the need to adapt their offer accordingly. Finally, I would like to stress that Greens are always important to us. This brochure also covers women with learning difficulties as well as women with hearing impairment. and deaf women, involved in the creation, because only in this way can the brochure be accurate and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13356	Next speaker is Mrs Mag.a Verena Nussbaum. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13381	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! I would also like to mention the request to speak, in which the government parties call on the Federal Government to prepare a brochure for women with disabilities for gynecological screening in light language. In principle, I welcome this request from the Equal Treatment Committee because it is extremely important to make it easier for women to access the gynecological screening. Especially in the case of medical brochures, it is important to translate these into light language. I see this brochure as a tiny step in a less accessible future and in an inclusive society. Many people with visual or learning difficulties need simplified texts, but it is not only about the texts, it is also about layout and color combinations. Many brochures are not yet accessible to us, although that would probably be easy to implement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that many women with and without disabilities are very poorly informed about gynecological precautions. We also know that screening can save lives. You're very important. That is why we will, of course, support this request. But now to my criticism: I think it is really sad that we need an application on this issue at all, because the Convention on the Rights of the Disabled requires accessibility in all areas of life. This also includes texts in light language. You can also make good use of digitalization. Dear turquoise-green government party representatives here in Parliament! Do you really think it's serious that you can't admit to your government, your government members, that they can develop a brochure themselves? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Actually, it should be natural for all ministries to print all brochures in light language. I would also like to say: This proposal has absolutely nothing to do with legislation. Finally, it is simply and simply an administrative task to be carried out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13436	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - No, that's not the case. I ask again whether the clubs wish to interrupt. - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 17 of the resolution attached to the Committee's report 414 on 'Women's health: Breast cancer early detection during the Corona crisis’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[110/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosa Ecker, colleagues, on ‘no age discrimination in case of breast cancer screening for women over 69 years’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[111/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘the rapid and complete implementation of the Women’s Health Action Plan’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This too is unanimously adopted. [[112/E]] We are now voting on Agenda item 18, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 415 of the Supplements on 'The creation of information brochures in light language on gynecological screenings for women with disabilities'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously accepted. [[113/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 416 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This request has been accepted by the majority. [[14:06:27]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on amendment 885/A(E) by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues concerning 360.- Euro Special payment for all families entitled to family allowances in 2020 (424, e.g.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the proposal 737/A(E) by Mr Michael Bernhard, ladies and gentlemen, on the adjustment of fixed-cost aid (425b) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment 115/A(E) by Mrs Petra Wimmer, colleagues, on the rapid implementation of a child cost survey (426, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13588	We now come to points 20 to 22 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Petra Wimmer has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13619	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! How much does a child cost? – This is a question we are currently dealing with. It is not possible to answer it in concrete terms. There are no up-to-date figures on which we can guide ourselves. For years, children's and youth organisations, advisory bodies, family, professional associations and also the SPÖ Group have called for a new survey of the so-called costs of children in the House. State-oriented policy needs empirical data, needs empirical foundations. At present we are still working on budget expenditure for children from 1964. Everyone can imagine that there were different figures in 1964 than today, in 2020. As a result, family law and family policy measures are also based on this obsolete basis. The Federal Government has now recognised the need for a new, up-to-date child cost study and is now implementing a long-term SPÖ demand. Statistics Austria will prepare the study and involve the relevant stakeholders. It is also very important to us as a SPÖ group that the children and young people come to speak and that they are aware of the strengthening of the view of children and young people in the study space. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this reason, we consider the involvement of the Federal Youth Office in the process to be meaningful and necessary, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have the opportunity to appreciate the point of view of children and young people on the day of children's rights and to get involved in the political process. Show your appreciation by agreeing to our request! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13740	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13767	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank all the families – with the children, with the parents, with the grandparents – who are so great together during this difficult time, doing so much and ultimately doing so much for us as a society. A big thank you to all the families! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Austria, my dear Ladies and gentlemen, traditionally is a very family-friendly country. We have had high standards of family benefits for many years and can be seen in the European comparison. Yes, the Family is the basis of our society. Our family spokesperson Norbert Sieberhat said yesterday that the family is the backbone of society. I think that too is a very nice formulation. It has changed a lot in the world of work, in society as a whole, so I am also very pleased that this child costs collection and child costs study are being carried out. It is, however, particularly worth noting – and I would like to do this in particular now – that this government, under the leadership of our esteemed Federal Minister Christine Aschbacher, has bound a family package that can be seen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is one of the largest family packages we have ever had in Austria. I only call the Family Hard Fund with 67 000 payouts. The family-related measures have gone across the budget, and I do not have to mention them all individually. I am still coming to the children's bonus, as from the SPÖ a request was made to extend the children's bonus. We paid him the family allowance at the beginning of September. I believe that this was a right and important family policy measure, because it is particularly useful to pay out especially at school, because there are the financial burdens and the extra costs. It was also true that we made it simple and unbureaucratic; the amount was simply paid out with the family allowance without application. We have received very, very positive reactions. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for this path. It is true that there is a legal deadline for applications, and for all legal deadlines there are also limits and a deadline. That is true in this case too. Yeah, you could still do more, but you also have to see that there are limits somewhere. I therefore gather together once again – I have selected it again, ladies and gentlemen –: At the beginning of September, we paid 271 million euros of family aid, in addition 665.5 million euros for the child bonus – in addition, yes! –, 85.8 million euros school start-up fee for all children between the sixth and the 15th. Year of life, that is, for all schoolchildren. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] In addition, the amount of child drop-off is also EUR 108 million. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to acknowledge this positively, that these family benefits can really be seen. So that means – I put it together again – that at the beginning of September, in the context of the family aid, we made about 1.13 billion euros available to our families. That's good! – Stay You're healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13840	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13864	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to our request concerning the 360 Euro special payment for all families – my colleague from the ÖVP has just mentioned it, the child bonus of 360 Euro per child has been paid in September with the family allowance –: This special payment was intended for all families and their children during the first lockdown due to the Corona crisis in spring. That's how it was sold by the ÖVP. Now you don't need to talk about an extension, but you just need to do what has been promised, because the families whose children grew 18 years old in the summer – and therefore no longer entitled to child, family support – have not received this bonus. It has been promised that all children affected by the lockdown will also receive the 360 Euro in September, but those born in the summer, that is, those who were then 18 years old in August or September, did not get it. We think that is unfair, and that is why we have also tabled this request. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day of children's rights, and the double residence should become a right for children. The introduction is urgently needed in order to promote the care of children – in the sense of family life – by both parents to the same extent and to ensure legal certainty. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e13988	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Barbara Neßler is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14016	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! 1964, this is the year my cherished mom came into the world, that is the year in which black and white television was modern, in which Christl Haas won gold at the Olympic Games in the downhill and the Rolling Stones released their first record. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl]] [[New acknowledgment of the abg. Hörl.]] 1964 is also the year in which a child cost study was last prepared. The final study, based on the determination of the rule requirements for the calculation of child care, is based on the consumer creation made 56 years ago. In 2017, the colleague has already mentioned it, 80 organisations, including child law organisations, have requested a child cost study, a consumer survey, how much a child actually costs, but nothing has happened for a long time. Much has been done since 1964, and the needs of children have also changed. Especially in times of mobile phones and the Internet, we know that the calculation from the year snow has little to do with the reality of life of children. Summary: The obsolete survey is simply no longer a solid basis. Now we are finally moving on, and I am glad that today, on the day of children's rights, we are finally able to decide on the children's cost study. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Again: Why is this study so important? – In order to reassess the financial situation of the families. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important step in combating child poverty. In Austria, 372,000 children and young people are affected by poverty, or else formulated, each fifth child is affected by poverty. To be financially poor means not only to live under financial bottlenecks, it means social exclusion. Not listening to it is not only a terrible feeling, but it also causes psychosocial, psychosomatic effects. It is our job to ensure that children can be children without having to live under financial pressure or with reduced opportunities. I know the fight against the Covid crisis is not over, but the fight against child poverty has only begun. Ladies and gentlemen, we are writing 2020, my mom is 56 now, the rolling stones are still there, and there is finally a children's cost study – an important step in the fight against child poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14079	Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14100	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again: Happy Birthday, children's rights! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] I think that's so great, there's always room for applause! However, I am less happy that we have postponed two requests from the Committee on Family and Youth, which have been tabled by me. The first is school start-up, and there would definitely be an important step in child costs analysis. The school start-up fee is an important support at the beginning of the school year for families because they are particularly under financial pressure: School bags, school bags, school textbooks, printing fees, craft fees, all this costs money – and not very little of it, but even very much. Life is not known to be cheaper, but more expensive, so is the start of school. That is why we would have called for an increase in the school start-up fee at the beginning of 2021 – because of course we also see the help paid this year. Another demand from our first request was an earlier disbursement, namely in August, because we all know that not only on 1st. September shopping goes, but many things are already done in August, for example school notes buy et cetera. Perhaps at least at this cost-neutral point we will eventually find a consensus in this House. I think it would be quite a practical step if this disbursement were to take place earlier. Now to the second request: We have heard of the terrifying figures on wire in the last few days. You've been quite stressed. Children and adolescents now suffer more often from sleep disorders, depressions, autoaggression et cetera. All this is already located in spring black on white on the table. What are the consequences? Children and young people need more support, especially when it comes to mental health, especially as the day of children's rights coincides with the day of psychotherapy! We demand: Immediately more children's therapy places and immediately more school psychologists and school psychologists at Austria's schools, for low level of access! Especially in times like now, it is very important to ensure the financial security of youth work, street work and youth centres. These are particularly vulnerable because they are municipally funded and local authorities are currently under severe financial pressure. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] In this context, open youth work is particularly widely used in a situation such as now, of course. On the day of children's rights, I would like to take a brief look at the recommendations of the UN Committee on Children's Rights. Let us finally secure the work of Council on Wire over the League! This is very important, especially when we speak of figures, facts and facts: Let's secure the work from advice to wire! 147 has already helped many children and young people and is always available to help when there is a need for discussion. All of this would be important steps. I would like to conclude with Article 1 of the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children: “Each child is entitled to the protection and care necessary for his well-being, to the best possible development and development [...].” That's what we've all come to know.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14161	Now Michael Bernhard zu Wortt. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14185	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We are also talking on this item on the agenda today about a request from me and my group, which has been rejected in the Family Committee. I would like to take this rejection as an opportunity to talk about a general problem in Parliament, a problem which is not limited to the fact that it is inconvenient for us parliamentarians but is massively damaging to people in our country. At a time of crisis, we have experienced infinitely many different policies, which have often been adopted at a high speed, with, of course, errors also happening. I would not want to create this mistake either, but it is our responsibility as an opposition to examine the laws on the part of the government parties: Is there a mistake? Are there groups in our society experiencing disadvantages?, and show these disadvantages. We now come to the very role of the ÖVP and the Greens, namely, how they deal with this show, with this responsible task. We members of the opposition are not those who are always loud, who always cry out, who do not make any proposals – on the contrary, I am holding back – but these proposals are turned under the carpet; in the parliamentary language this means adjourned. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What are these applications that we have now submitted on our own in the last Family Committee? Requests from NEOS and NEOS and SPÖ have jointly made five out of eleven requests on the agenda in the last Family Committee, and I only want to outline them shortly so that you know where who is losing like and why this doesn't matter to the Greens and the ÖVP. The application, which has been rejected today, says that the fixed-cost grant now available to entrepreneurs – taking the year 2019 as a comparison period – must also apply to those who were in Karenz last year and that in such cases one takes the year before, because a mother who was at home last year does not have the same fixed operating costs as an entrepreneur who is full in business. This request was rejected because, while it is legally intended for EPCs to apply for the fixed-cost grant, it is not necessarily political. I have tabled a second request, in which I have repeatedly pointed out to the Minister that we are now in the second lockdown, perhaps a third lockdown comes sometime and we help people who are in short work or unemployed once with three months, while we are in a great crisis for at least a whole year, so that further measures need more than a single three-month support. This has been postponed because the people it concerns, and those are hundreds of thousands in our country, apparently not important enough that a solution is found. I have also put forward a proposal that those who are now applying for a tough balance and who start a family next year and go to Karenz will not be taken as a comparative period for the income-dependent child allowance this year, in which a crisis was, but the year before. That's been postponed. It is interesting that the Minister then filed an almost verbatim request in the Council of Ministers. I'm happy about the content, I think it's just a childhood game that we're putting sand in the eyes of the population and not doing what's best for people. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Together with the SPÖ, I have tabled a request that the family advisory services receive sufficient money in the crisis so that they can properly advise when, for example, emotions and conflicts arise, because one should be permanently in one's own rooms and the spaces are not always insanely large. This has also been postponed without a solution being supplied. I have also made a request that we generally focus on the fact that, in future, the roles of parents – of parents becoming parents or of those who have become parents – will be taken into account in all covid measures. All this is being postponed. I am not annoyed by the fact that, as a Member of Parliament, we are holding the debate and then just coming to the broom and turning it under the carpet, but I am annoyed that there are hundreds of thousands of people in our country who are suffering from the fact that ÖVP and Greens are making only those policies for which they get headlines in the Boulevard for which they get broadcasting time on television or on radio. All the things in which they cannot picture themselves are completely different to them, and so do the people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14263	Next speaker is Maximilian Köllner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14285	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, that's what we're almost listening to in the high house, especially from the sides of the ÖVP delegates: Thank you, thank you, thank you. . I believe that we should all, together, address this word in the right direction, not to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but to the Austrian families, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] What we have experienced in the past few weeks and months was a mismanagement of the Federal Government, which culminated in this second lockdown. The devastating consequences are known. Almost a million people are unemployed or in short-time work, instead of schooling, home schooling is recommended, and all this is a huge challenge for families. But what we are also experiencing is that this federal government is constantly trying to avoid responsibility and to blame the people for the high number of infections in the shoes. The families are currently doing incredible things. I can give you an example for so many families from my immediate environment: a family with three children at the age of three, eight and twelve, the children are to be taught and supervised at home, but the parents also have to go to work, and in addition the household is still to be run – and they somehow do. That this is also a psychological burden for all those involved that the children cannot meet with friends, can not be active in the sports club, we are not talking about it yet. My colleague Evi Holzleitner said: We commit today, in the middle of this Covid lockdown, the day of children's rights – and yes, children also have a right to education in this crisis, and yes, they also have a right to play and leisure and a right to care, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Mrs Minister, the special payment of 360 euros for the relief of families is certainly well meant – no question! – because many people are naturally in a difficult financial situation as a result of the Covid-19 crisis. A one-time payment is better than nothing, but this amount – that is what the colleague from the FPÖ has addressed – did not benefit everyone concerned, and that is unfair. It is also not only up-to-date that crises can accompany us longer, that is why our appeal, Mrs Minister: In the future, make sure to meet more sustainable solutions to support families! That would be a real thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14337	Maria Großbauer is now mentioned in the word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14361	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Today, we are discussing proposals from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth, and I would like to refer to the 360 Euro child bonus already paid in September, and to a NEOS request on fixed-cost grant for entrepreneurs. In principle, however, I would like to say again at the beginning, especially in the direction of Mr Bernhard and Mr Köllner, that this Federal Government is doing everything possible to all affected people in Austria through financial support from this It's a crisis to help. For this, Austria is spending most of its money across Europe, as measured by the country's size, in all areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We've heard it today: In the area of family alone, it was 1.13 billion euros in September. So it's not like nothing's happening. There's nothing going on under the carpet either. On the contrary, the Minister and her team strive for individual cases, are contact persons – it is exemplary how they work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The child bonus of 360 euros was paid out automatically in September, unbureaucratic and fast, so that the aid can also arrive quickly. There was then criticism that some didn't get it. I understand, of course, what you mean, but unfortunately, there are time limits, limits and time limits for legislation, and that in some cases it may be very short that the conditions are not met, but there must also be limits. Nevertheless, as has already been said, a great deal has been done for the families, not only one measure has been taken. I would like to say two points to the NEOS' request that self-employed persons should not be entitled to fixed costs if they were in Karenz during the reference period of the previous year: First of all, I do not see this, and above all the Ministry of Finance, because the directive provides that for companies for which there is no revenue or income tax data from 2018 or 2019, the turnover losses can be plausified on the basis of a plan bill and can therefore already be requested a fixed cost grant. Entrepreneurs can therefore use plausible data if they were in Karenz, such as new founders or re-founders, when retiring. Secondly, I would like to point out that there is also the hardness fund that is handled through the Chamber of Commerce for individuals. The fixed-cost grant is in order to replace operating expenses if, for example, a hotel had to close; but Karenz usually does not stop a farm. I would like to stress once again that: Minister Aschbacher strives enormously for the families in this country, they also feel it, and even if mistakes or gaps have been discovered, this has not been turned under the carpet, but has been fixed and improved. Work on progress! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14422	The next speaker is Mr Norbert Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14446	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! Happy Birthday, Children's Rights – Eva Maria Holzleitner said that! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] It is good that we have these children's rights, it is good that we have an opposition that stands behind them and sets up the demands, and it is good that we have governments that take these children's rights seriously and also carry them on a little bit. And one thing is also said: If you call me the country on this continent, call me the country in this world in which children's rights are better implemented than with us in Austria! Children's rights have a great tradition in this country, and we can all be proud of the fact that we have children's rights that are not only on paper but also live. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as bravoruf des Abg. Obernosterer.]] It is also nice that on this birthday of children's rights today we also have the decision on a children's cost survey on the agenda. Mr Neßler said: The last child cost study was carried out in 1964. It is not surprising, then, that many organizations have, of course, already called for a new edition of this study; last but not least, as reported, it was 80 organisations in an open letter. The coalition partners have established in the government programme 2020 to 2024 that a child cost study is provided for in the Family and Youth Chapter, which should also have been part of a larger time-use study. The Ministry of Social Affairs has now commissioned a child cost analysis at Statistics Austria. This study is to be carried out on the basis of the 2014/15 and 2019/20 consumer surveys, and we expect results from this study in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen! Children's poverty is mentioned again and again, and precisely this government, ÖVP/Green, has put this issue on the flags and has also written in the government's programme that child poverty needs to be combated accordingly. Family benefits – and we have discussed the budget in recent days – are an important means of combating child poverty accordingly, and we have also heard that over 7.5 billion euros are budgeted for families. These are, of course, funds that are against child poverty, whether this is the family allowance, the childcare allowance, the textbooks, schoolbook actions and/or many other measures. An essential instrument in the fight against child poverty is, of course, also the family compensation fund, the Flaf. If we look at this Flaf a little bit more closely, we can see how important it is to fight against child poverty now, but also to previous government constellations. From EUR 4.3 billion in 2000, this Flaf has developed to more than EUR 7.1 billion. This is an increase of more than 64 percent in this period, from 2000 to now, or, in order to make it even clearer, an increase of more than 23 percent above inflation. This government and also previous governments have given clear signals that child and family poverty must be combated. If we look at further figures when we speak of child poverty, it should be noted that we have also achieved a 15 percent reduction in the risk of poverty from 2008 to 2018, or that the risk rate for children in low-income households could be reduced by more than 13 percent from 2013 to 2016. At present, we are in line with the quota – taking social benefits in the EU comparison – at 13.3 percent risk rate in seventh place and thus significantly below the EU average, which is 16.8 percent. The risk of poverty is based on the EU average if you have to reach less than 60 percent of the median income. Ladies and gentlemen, this, of course, leads to a somewhat strange situation in comparison between the EU countries, namely that Luxembourg, where there is a median income of over 40 000 euros, can be found on the list behind Greece or Portugal and that it is above all clearly below the EU average. In Luxembourg, too, we Austrians with our median income would be only quite, very close to the poverty line. We must therefore deal with these figures very carefully and see that it remains really comparable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless: The children's cost study now commissioned will certainly be an important tool for us and will provide data on the basis of which we can continue to make good progress in family policy in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14515	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a wish on the part of the report concerning a final word? - That's not the case. Do the clubs wish to interrupt the meeting? – That is not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 424 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 425 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for signs. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: We shall first come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 426 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 115/A(E). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Wimmer, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘participative and transparent preparation of the child cost study’. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues, on the 'immediate implementation of the double residence for children in divorce'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall also vote on the resolution on the rapid implementation of a child cost collection annexed to the Committee Report 426 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. [[14:43:23]] 23. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 956/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Medical Law in 1998 (438, e.g.) 24. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 784/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on specialist training for orthodontics in Austria (439 d.b.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 848/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues with regard to the extension of the health insurance for all (437 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14681	We come to points 23 to 25 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Philip Kucher is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14711	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite pleasant that, after intensive budgetary consultations, there are also points in which we can positively agree together to a legislative proposal after the very hot debates. In concrete terms, this is a cross-party initiative for a specialist training in the field of pine medicine, orthodontics, and I would like to say thank you for the cross-party initiative Gabi Schwarz, which is sitting here, Gerhard Kaniak of the FPÖ, which I do not see right now, Ralph Schallmeiner and Gerald Loacker. I think it is important to put these initiatives together again and again in the health field, especially because there has been some critical and intense discussions over the last few days. One of the last central innovations was the free toothbands in severe dental errors – that was under Alois Stöger, who sits here. I think it would be important to continue such initiatives in the future. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Drozda.]] Mr. Federal Minister Anschober, it is not a self-evident purpose of the opposition, if she once critically says that more needs to be done in health policy, you could consider it as a support. If that's gotten wrong: It should be a support for the people in Austria who need it. There are such mosaics, examples, as in today's dentistry, in which one could also become party-cross-party in the future. It is always very important to us as a social democracy that all people in Austria, no matter where the federal state they live in, whether in the city or in the country, no matter what profession they have, receive really good achievements. I think that this might be an exciting initiative, and we should do this equally well with each other. We'd be ready to go there any time. But thank you at least for the first step towards specialist training in dentistry. I would also like to say thank you very much to Dr. Silli of the Association of Austrian Orthodontics. She is a lady who, I believe, has been committed for over ten years to the fact that there is a solution, in fact even longer, and it is great that it has now also succeeded together in bringing about this specialist training for orthodontics in Austria. I am looking forward to continuing cooperation in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14765	Mrs Gabriela Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14790	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you, even if this is clearly interpreted differently from other political groups, for thanking us. But I am entirely with Philip Kucher, when it comes to drawing together on a line and deciding on this really important training for the orthodontics. Joint decisions should be equally important to us when it comes, for example, to supplementary training such as surgical intensive care medicine. Especially in times like those in which we know how valuable intensive medicine, not only the care, but also the medical performance, we should also do so. These were available until 2015, now they are no longer available. I support the efforts of the Society for Surgery to reintroduce this additional training; there may also be consensus there. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] We are certainly also in agreement when it comes to upgrading and keeping in focus other subjects, such as ophthalmology, child and youth medicine, child and youth psychology, but also the specialist in general medicine, which is really important especially in rural areas, because it is a matter of dealing with the future shortage of general medicine really well. I would now like to make a few points and follow up on what my colleague, Mr Melchior, said today at the beginning of the sitting. This is about expertise, competence, quality, even in the statements of scientific nature, and it is a bit as if virologist Drosten had expressed himself in a conversation with colleagues Hammerschmid and Rendi-Wagner as if the school closures were not really good. I can already point out that he said in his podcast, which he mentioned on Twitter again – he said nothing else to politicians on the podcast – that the students contribute to the transmission as well as the adult and the viral load is the same, and that only in the smallest cases the viral load is slightly smaller, but probably because the sampling material of infants is also less, and that you only have fewer clusters in schools because children usually do not show symptoms and are therefore never zero as a person. As the first carrier, the adults infected by the child often paid off. - So much for clarification. I would also expect Mr Rendi-Wagner and Mr Hammerschmid to really represent that, as it may or may not have said in the video phone with them. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] My last request to you: I believe that we should reflect on what Philip said, namely to do a lot of things together, not only in the Health Committee, but also now. Our common enemy is the virus, and this should apply to our struggle together. – Stay healthy, stay strong, keep together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14845	It is now possible to speak. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14869	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I believe that this proposal, which is unanimously adopted by the National Council and which has also been unanimously approved by the Health Committee, shows that we are in the field of health policy. It is possible to take up constructive proposals and to decide together. I would like to see Mrs DDr at this point. Silli and the Austrian pine orthodontics Association thank her for her long-term commitment to dental health. Without their great commitment, we would not take this decision as we will grasp it today. Thank you. However, I would also like to say that in the past and especially in the last few weeks, we have made countless constructive suggestions and proposals, which unfortunately God has stuck in the Health Committee, adjourned, which I hope we will achieve at least step by step and perhaps even in small steps a common line and also joint decisions to improve the Austrian health system for the Austrian population. I would like to mention a few points, all of which are in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It was postponed in November: ‘financial recognition of domestic care’ – 6th plenary session adjourned November; ‘Nominal review of all COVID-19 laws, regulations and procedures in the field of competence of the BMSGPK’ is adjourned; ‘interventional footprint by ÖVP networks towards health authorities at national and federal level’, a reconnaissance of the whole history of Ischgl and Co, is postponed; “Amnesty for “Corona-Sinners”” where the Constitutional Court has abolished the legal basis for punishment and has nevertheless been paid – unfortunately postponed; A “measure package for the Austrian health system according to COVID-19”, after the first wave, in which such essential points as a “status report on the financial, human and organisational consequences” were taken into account after the first wave, that is, exactly what we should have known for the preparation of the second wave and should have been actively communicating, or the demand for “budgetary measures for rapid financial coverage of the financial needs in the Austrian health system including the public health insurance companies” – that is what we already have on 9. It was submitted by application on 6 July. November again, although a claim cannot be more up-to-date; and last but not least – this is a point I would like to address even more in detail and in which I also have great hopes that at the next committee meetings we might get something or other – “health policy initiatives for strengthening the established area” – also on 6 June. On the other hand, there are just as important things inside as they were just mentioned by Mr Schwarz. The specialist in general medicine would have found itself inside, as the extension of the teaching practices would have been found, as the strengthening of the checkout doctors and the solution of the rural medical problem would have found itself inside. All these are things that burn under the fingernails and as for which we as the legislative body in our state have the responsibility to move something constructive. Finally, I would like to draw particular attention to legal initiatives on the part of our pharmacovigilance, which have also been postponed or rejected: the pharmaceutical law novel, which is de facto unprocessed in the ministry for two years; initiatives to strengthen security of supply, to extend the emergency paragraph, but also currently in the influenza vaccination, in which there is indeed chaos in the distribution and distribution of vaccines; the prescription exemption for recurring vaccinations, so that the patient is not sent back and forth, just because he has no prescription for a vaccine – if he goes to the health authorities, he does not need a prescription, ladies and gentlemen, before. All of these are things that we should urgently discuss and decide on in the Committee on Health, and which we should decide here in plenary. I believe that we can find a majority in this House. I hope that we will also find there this constructive shoulder closure in the sense of the Austrian population and the Austrian health system, as we have done for the specialist in pine orthodontics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14943	Mrs Mag.a, Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid, spoke on an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e14970	Mr President. Mrs Schwarz has said earlier that I would not properly reflect the contents of a podcast by Mr Drosten. The fact is that: I did not comment on a podcast either, but I had a personal conversation with Professor Drosten, and in this personal conversation we also discussed the subject of school. In this personal conversation he said that the schools – listen, I'll repeat it for the third time now! – of course not free from infection, but that it is possible to keep them open when testing all educators once a week with an antigen test – no more and no less. [[Complaints and bravaders at the SPÖ, as well as congratulations with the FPÖ and with representatives of the NEOS.]] With suitable test strategies, you can keep the school open and make it safe.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15003	Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15028	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mr. Minister! A few comments on these proposals or on the current debate. One thing is: I join the thanks of my previous speakers, of course. I would like to thank all the other colleagues for being able to clarify together the question of orthodontics in such a constructive way. Of course, I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Silli, who has been mentioned here several times today, for her persistence, for these good ideas, for this importance. But I would also like to express my express thanks to the speakers of our clubs who, in preparation for this joint request, had to do all the coordination work. It was really not always easy to do that, and the more important it was the work they did there. Secondly, We still have here today the request for the continuation of the telephonic prescription which we have rejected in committee. I would like to explain briefly why. From our point of view, this is an intervention in the self-management of the ÖGK. The ÖGK has just extended the telemedicine, telemedicine disease within the scope of its own possibilities. We don't think it's a good thing to intervene in this self-management and self-responsibilities as legislators. However, we naturally call on the ÖGK and also on all other social security institutions to achieve such things in the future a little easier and easier. A third comment, a very personal comment, was made in recent days: No, I'm not a Freddie-Mercury-Double right now, I'm not a Tom-Selleck-Double either, and I'm not a big fan of "Magnum, P.I." or something like that, but I'm wearing this snout because we have Movember. November is the month when it comes to male health, and the sign for this Movember is just the Schnauzer – the Moustache, as it is so beautiful. It's about male health. It's about prevention work, it's about mental health in men, but it's also about things like testicular cancer, prostate cancer and the like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] It would be an important sign of all of us – from us men – to pay a little more attention to this important topic, especially because, for example, in the field of mental health, many men still believe that it is unmistakable to entrust themselves to a psychologist or a psychotherapist and seek the conversation. [[Complementary of the Abg. Goddamn it.]] The more important it is to create awareness of this in November. One way to create this awareness is to act in public. As already said, a sign of this is the Schnauzer – which will then come down again soon, I promised my wife, and then I like to stick to this promise again. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, he's right!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In return, I would ask the men in here – some have, I think, a semi-taught beard growth – to do it to me, a few days still lasts November. I would also ask that in the next few days perhaps some public reference to male health, on this really important issue, be made. I believe that if all of us stand to do so and take this issue seriously, then we could achieve a little bit of that, as the issue of precautionary investigations is also one of the objectives of the budget. We have stated in the budget that we want to bring a lot of men to these precautions. – Thank you at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15082	The next speaker is Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15107	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For seven years I have been allowed to work here in this House and for seven years the health committee of the specialist in orthodontics has been a topic. Again and again there have been start-ups, and now it finally works. Now it finally works unanimously, and I admire the patience these orthodontics had with the legislator. It is the happiness of the rulers that pine orthodontics do not work with locusts, for otherwise, I think, a few would have passed by before and had provided a little for energy among the most valued. This slowness of progress, if the legislator or the government is working in the snails, is laborious for those who work here politically, however, it is even more laborious for those who are affected by it professionally. Mr Schwarz has used her speech to roll the government's school closure propaganda again. I would like to say one thing: What is happening here is a huge distraction, because the responsible ones – you, Federal Minister – have not got their task in line because they have not protected the vulnerable groups. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS and the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we have one death after another in the old age and nursing homes. For propaganda and press conferences, we have time, for mass testing also sufficient material, but we do not have enough tests to test staff regularly in old age and care homes, as state councillor Gersdorfer has recently said. You have not done your job and can't create screening programs for old-age and care homes! That's why we lock the whole Republic away now! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] They ask themselves: What doesn't a health minister have to do until he leaves his office?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15181	The next speaker is Dr. Josef Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15206	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is very tempting to say what Mr Loacker said: If we protect the risk groups, we can leave the others alone! [[Abg. Belakovich: He didn't say that! That's where you should have listened!]] There is a refocused international study that has shown that this protection of the risk groups has unfortunately not taken God anywhere. [[Abg. Belakovich: Many!]] The wider the infection was rolled out in the general population, the more old people died, unfortunately. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] That is, we must be united in solidarity and act in solidarity over the next few weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on the subject: We have a novel of the doctor's law on the management of the doctor's list. This is something which, according to the Constitutional Court or according to the federal constitution, needs the consent of the countries, so this is once again on the tapet. This vote with the countries is a very interesting point. In the future, we will have another issue, including the training facilities in the hospitals. Here too, we need to be in agreement with the countries, and we must ensure that there are still uniform quality standards throughout Austria. Most importantly, that has already been mentioned several times, is that the specialist dentist for pine orthodontics is now to be introduced as a three-year, high-quality training. Orthodontics and orthodontics have really fought for decades, that is an important thing. I would like to say thank you once again to Mrs. Dr. Silli, but also to all 350 dentists who are working in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They do this at a high level, have taken on voluntary intensive training, and that this is now also formally recognized is important. If we are already in medical training – it has already been mentioned –: Specialization in surgical intensive care medicine is an essential point, and especially in situations like today it would be good to have further staff reserves that can be recruited for intensive care. To the specialist in general medicine: This is a small but essential piece of puzzle for the upgrading of general medicine. In all these questions, the Ministry of Health and the Chamber of Physicians can take good steps together. Although this may look a bit like a formal event at first glance, it is important for quality, important for perception, appreciation, attraction, and it is good for our patients. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15275	Mr Mag now has to make an actual correction. Gerald Loackerzu word reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15302	Mr. Dr. Smolle said that if you were to protect the risk groups, you wouldn't have to do anything else. I'm actually correcting: I said: Because the Minister has not carried out his task of protecting the risk groups, we now have to lock the whole Republic away. That doesn't mean you don't have to do anything else. It means that with a lot of relief measures through the crisis one would come as with a total lockdown.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15329	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Markus Vogl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15354	Mr President. Minister! High house! I believe that many in this House did not even know what happened at the last vote. It has been stressed here by all sides that the Child Cost Survey is an important objective that we want to decide together, but at the end of the day, some of the Members have remained in the National Council, and unfortunately this full-bodied announcement has not been implemented into reality. I would like to thank our club secretary Gabi Kotzegger and the Parliamentary Directorate, who are now making it possible for us to fix this voting margin in an uncomplicated manner in the course of one of the next items on the agenda. Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] It's not the only pan that's happened in the last few days. We are currently discussing whether everything that has been decided yesterday has its validity, because instead of five, there are only four signatures on one request. I think this is very worrying, because I believe that the contentious debate, which is, in part, very fierce, shows us how important it is that we have rules for how we carry out these conflicts together in this House. To this end, the Rules of Procedure are an essential instrument. If a club secretary – apologies, clubwoman – says that this discussion on the Rules of Procedure is something for a lack of Rules of Procedure, then she does not disqualify with this statement in this House [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] It is only us, but it is also Parliament's management. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Of course, I would also like to take a brief look at the agenda items. I believe that this is an important instrument in the present time, and I think it would be very good and right to make it from the House and to implement the proposal made by Mr Loacker. Finally: We talk a lot about making things together. We have shown, I believe, how constructively we are in crisis situations here with our expertise and expertise. But that's not a one-way street. Federal Minister Rudi Anschober, let me say one thing: We talk about timely information all the time, if we do something together. And if we have the last vote on Friday evening in the Committee on Budgets last week and a comprehensive amendment comes in at noon, with a legislative nature, which regulates with 1. In January 2021, an Office for Consumer Health entered into force, in the Budget Committee, there was no loss of a word on it in hours of discussions, no discussion on the content, no involvement of the opposition and no information to the opposition, I wonder: Is that the style of how we deal with each other? [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can only say one thing: We know this style. This style has a manuscript, it is usually under the famous slogan: Hold hands, close face muscles!, known, and I think this style has already prevailed in this government too.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15429	Mr Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15450	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of health, I would like to send an important message to all spectators: Despite the hard coronalockdown, doctors keep their practices and ordinations fully open. I think that's an important information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do you normally do when you feel sick when you can't go to work? – One consults a doctor, goes into the ordination, can be examined and is then written if necessary. Ten days ago, the Health Committee was consulted on the request for an extension of the medical prescription for all. To remember: In spring, as part of the lockdown, the Austrian health insurance fund created the possibility of a telephone prescription to relieve the hotline in 1450 and to minimise personal contact and thus further infections – a useful action, as I find it necessary to stress that, so far, domestic physicians have already been able to write a telephone call to patients who know them well. Yes, is that so?, some will now ask themselves: The ÖGK is so flexible? - Yes, in fact, that's her. In recent months, in the crisis, it has been noted that the ÖGK described by some as rigid moloch is mobile, adaptable and also quite constructive. At the last meeting of the Health Committee, Director-General Wurzer and Obmann Huss were also invited to the situation of the ÖGC and, in principle, the insured to discuss and address the questions raised by the members of the Committee. I have felt this conversation with the ÖGK chiefs as very constructive and forward-looking. Promising approaches have been discussed, solutions discussed, and concepts have also been conceived. – An interesting number: Without a corona crisis, the operating result of the mergerd ÖGK 2020 would be positive. Back to the topic of the telephonic disease: It was withdrawn in the summer, now the ÖGK has reintroduced the possibility of telemedicine, usually by telephone consultation, also for the purpose of confirming incapacity for work – and that is good. However, the telephonic prescription is formally a decision of self-administration, the ÖGK says, and not of us as the supervisory authority. In principle, digitalization and telemedicine experience a turboshub through the corona crisis. What was partly unthinkable a year ago is now normality, and certain areas of medicine can be really well telemedicine, but, ladies and gentlemen, a telephone prescription without immediate examination of the patients is not generally useful and should therefore be used with caution and strict definition, or should the doctor decide individually. Why? – An anamnese, a visual or a laboratory finding is usually not an exact diagnosis; this includes a careful clinical examination to stop any abuse. Therefore, a telephone prescription for times of crisis is very useful, but generally it does not correspond to the careful medical procedure we all want and are used to. Nevertheless, let us use the meaningful, modern possibilities of telemedicine, not only in times of crisis, and let us jump on to the digital speed in the sense of further development! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15512	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – Mr Smolle does not wish. Before we get to the voting process, I can ask the clubs if they are complete to vote. - That's the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Draft federal law, which amends the Medical Law, together with the title and receipt in 438 of the Supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this draft law to give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask all those who also give their consent at third reading to a sign. – That too is multi-voice. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on agenda item 24, which is the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 439 of the Supplements on 'Various training for pine orthodontics in Austria'. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who join the resolution for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[114/E]] I can put to the vote the item on the agenda 25 : Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 437 of the supplements. If you take note of this report, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[15:15:20]] 26. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 27. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 194/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on non-refundable pensions with 540 months of contribution (452 p.a.) 28. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Corona-related short-time work should not lead to disadvantages in the case of heavy-work pension! (453 d.a.) 29. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 947/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on pension reform within the meaning of subsequent generations (454 d.b.) 30. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Self-Employed Social Insurance Act (455)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15664	We shall now proceed to items 26 to 30 on the agenda, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. I can still say that I am expected to interrupt the session at 4 p.m. after the KD round is finished. I'm allowed to say that now. Mr Leichfried spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15700	Mr President, on your announcement to interrupt the sitting, I would suggest to consider that we do the interruption when these agenda items are done, so at the earliest when they are done, so that the debate will not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15743	If we agree, we can also deal with these agenda items in advance; I think that will not go beyond 4 p.m. – Then we proceed in such a way that I interrupt after these agenda items have been completed. Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e15769	Mr President. Federal Minister! I should like to speak on the points of fair pensions and to begin by thanking more than 106 000 people who signed the petition against the abolition of the long-term insurance scheme. Thank you for the action also to the PRO-GE. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens! You sent us your amendment yesterday, and the closer we look at it and evaluate it accordingly, the clearer it becomes for all working people in this country and for all future pensioners. In this amendment, you have not only implemented the abolition of the discount-free pension of the long-term insured scheme, i.e. Hackler, in the content, you have also concluded that all pensioners will receive less pension in the future. So there are cuts for all those who go into retirement in the future. Its application is based on the fact that, in the case of heavy work pensions, including invalidity pensions, pension pensions are reduced even in the case of occupational incapacity pensions, provided that the 540 contribution months are included there. That's unfair, that's unfair, that's not what you've actually announced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why didn't you announce this to the press conference on Tuesday? Why do you punish workers and employees, those who pay the most in the pension system, work the longest and receive the lowest federal grant? For workers and employees, the State pays a federal grant of almost 140 euros per month for each pensioner and each pensioner. For the farmers, where you raised pensions a few months ago, we have a federal grant of 660 euros. [[Call the ÖVP: Now he's starting again!]] Those who pay a little, get something on it, those who pay a lot, you take something away. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens, what has disturbed me in this House in the last few days, are your untruths, your fakes. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You stand out here and say: 9 742 men have retired from January to October. – Yes, under the long-term insurance scheme. They say only five women have retired. [[Call:No, one]] – Yes, under the long-term insurance scheme. However, if you were fair, if you knew the pension system, were to deal with it and look at the figures of how many discount-free pensions there have been in this country for men and women this year, then you would get this result: [[The speaker put on the speaker's desk a label entitled "Derogation-free pensions 2020, old-age pensions and long-term insured scheme, women: 35,382, men: 18,260".]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From January to October, in Austria, the pension type pension and the pension scheme extended to 35 382 women and 18 260 men. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the members of the FPÖ, and in the case of Bravoruf des Abg. Worm.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tomaselli.]] [[Abg. Loacker:... 60!]] [[Ruf:Do you want the women to also all...]] [[Call the NEOS: This is the worst SPÖ style!]] [[Further calls for Greens and NEOS.]] I also tell you why this is because women in this country are currently thanking God with the 60. If you are a pensioner, you may be entitled to a pension free of charge. [[Abg. Loacker: Because you have increased the age of women's pension!]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] If a woman with 60 discount-free pension can obtain a pension, she will not remain up to 62 in order to achieve that accordingly. This is the Enlightenment and that is the truth – not these half-truths you're telling here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If the greens come here and always tell in front of the running camera how important it is to them that the women's pensions are increased – then you will increase the women's pensions for all women! Then Vote I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What I have heard here in this House since Tuesday about who in Austria is regarded as a heavy worker, who is not touched by this pension – such a thing – I cannot say nonsense, Mr President – nonsense! [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] You don't know. A speculator that is up at the roof in every weather – in the sun, in the heat, in the cold, in the rain – is not a heavy worker. [[Call:Genau]] A saw worker, a brick worker, a cement worker, an electrician, an installer – these are not heavy workers. [[Call:A flow army]] They have had this only bridge, perhaps by 62 to the discount-free pension if they make it healthy at all. [[Call the SPÖ: That's how it looks!]] Most of them go to an invalidity pension. [[Call the ÖVP:A go, such a fool!]] Those who go to an invalidity pension because they no longer make it physically, and those who are God's thanks to a heavy worker's pension, the builders, who are now also punished by you with supplements. – That’s unsocial and that’s unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] To the last point, to your early starter bonus: They have shown themselves here by the Greens and the ÖVP and have said that this is now an incentive for young people: to receive 1 euro grossly more in pension per working month. - Yes, that's a great incentive. 1 Euro more pension per working month between 15 and 20 Year of life. Now all young people will stop going to school and say: I want to go to work, I get 1 euro gross pension more. [[Call the SPÖ:... incentive!]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Call to the NEOS: We won't create it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] - People, where do you live? Where are you living? In addition, those with Ferialjobs and Ferialinterns are not recorded. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is inconceivable!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner.]] One thing I say to you, because we have also been criticized about night and fog action: As soon as there is a possibility here to correct these unfair pensions that the Greens and the ÖVP decide to make today, on the first occasion when there is a parliamentary majority in this House to correct this unfair pension system that you are now introducing, we will use this opportunity as SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller:... Coalition!]] [[Abg. Worm: We're ready!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] With today's amendment, with which they cut down all types of pensions, through which you cut down all new entrants, all people who will go into retirement in the future, the greens and the ÖVP show their true, unsocial face. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] It is really sad that the Greens and the ÖVP are starting with those people who work – who work hard and for a long time – as well as with the pensioners that they let them pay for the crisis first. Finally, one sentence, because you always say that it is about financing: It is about whether you want to finance fair pensions or not. We want to finance them because there are plenty of ways to do so. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Which one?]] You don't want that!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16109	Deputies, take your Taferl with you if you're so sweet! [[Abg. Belakovich: Leave it alone!]] [[Abg. Musically, the table is taken from the speaker's desk.]] Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16147	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! [[Abg. Worm: But now I'm excited! It's going to be underground now!]] Mr Muchich asked what world we live in. I can say in which world we live: We live in a world where the working conditions are subject to massive changes. We live in a world in which hardly anyone gets together more than 45 years of contributions. [[Abg. Worm: Shame on you! Koza, come on you!]] We live in a world where more and more people are regularly affected by unemployment, in which people who are training, having children or getting sick will never reach 45 years of contribution in life. [[Abg. Worm: For this speech you will still generate in a few years!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Are you sure...?]] Just for these people, who – as Beppo Muchich has said perfectly correctly – have a right to fair and fair pensions, precisely for those we do politics, because also these people work, these people also pay taxes, even these people pay taxes – these people also deserve it! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: Overruns!]] I am not an addict in this country, who has 45 years of contributions and retired early. I want him to do that, please. He deserved that – I emphasize it extra. [[Abg. Worm: ÖVP overflower!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But let's not pretend to be the mass. That is 7 000 to 8,000 people a year – 7 000 to 8,000 people a year! These should continue, as before 2020, after 45 years of retirement. [[Complementary of the Abg. Blimlinger.]] This is, by the way, a system which, with the involvement of trade unions, with the involvement of the social partners, has been decided by a Social Democratic Social Minister, a scheme planned as a permanent state. It is a regulation that is certainly not under the heading Pension Robbery – certainly not! –, a rule under the heading of justice and fairness; and we return to this arrangement. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] However, we are not only returning to this regulation, but we are also doing something for the many, not the few, for the 60 000, 70 000 who are retiring, according to PVA – because yesterday the question has been raised – each year will benefit from this scheme, namely the early starter bonus. [[showing a newspaper article]] This concerns, according to PVA, 60 000 to 70 000, half men, half women – or at least in practice – because yesterday the question was raised as to whether women would benefit at all. – Yes, they clearly benefit. It is 60,000 to 70,000 who receive 40 million euros a year, because they started working early because they got into work early. This is not an incentive for people to get in early, that is for those who have started working early, a corresponding pension fee that will be due to them who have earned them! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Once again, what this means for an average female pension of EUR 1 035: That is, if I only make these figures, between 600 and 700 euros a year. 600 to 700 euros a year in addition – that's not nothing, that's not little, that's much, that's much more than these people have received so far! And it gets men and women, and that's fair and fair. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What particularly pleased me was: I made a phone call yesterday with my old friend and example on social policy issues, Karl Oellinger, who is constantly being used and quoted to claim that he would supposedly stand for something that we no longer stand for, and he soon got out of a post. [[Abg. Worm: He's generating himself!]] He has always been very critical of the hackler scheme. It was a periodic crisis, a permanent crisis, it has been constantly changed. He always wanted to find a scheme that would pay, in particular, those who were supposed to have something to work early; and he says: This early starter bonus is the first right, a failed, a good step. – My dear Karl, that’s how we will do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16312	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16333	Mr President. Minister! [[The speaker put on the speaker's desk a label entitled "Retirement-free pensions 2020, old-age pensions and long-term insured scheme, women: 35,382, men: 18,260".]] What we are experiencing today and what we are getting here today after a week of discussion on the abolition of the hacker regime is even worse than expected, ladies and gentlemen. All pensions will now be reduced, you have also brought this with the application. Fairness has called it Colleague Koza, that is fairness for everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, fairness has nothing to do with a general reduction in pensions when you reintroduce deposits. This is not fairness, it is unfair, unfair and a social, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Koza, that the labour market is so bad together, owes the bad work of this federal government. That is the truth: the highest unemployment in the Second Republic! That is the truth, and that is why we have problems with pensions, which is why the grant this year or next year is particularly high. If you make proper labour market policy, you can afford all pensions again! You know that very well. Now stand here and try to defend something that can't be defended. You take away something they've earned from those who've worked for many years, and you think people will be knocking on their legs at home when you say: When you've started working at 15, you'll get more of a Euro in the guest house for each month. In the maximum case, that's 60 euros gross. Well, that's a super-friendly system: after 25 years of work! That's what I'm asking myself: Where's the idea of performance, dear ÖVP? You always go out and say, Whoever works is not allowed to be stupid, and always speaks of the achievements in this country. And then you take exactly those performance providers, exactly those who have worked for many years, who through their work have only made our social system viable at all, which have borne this system for decades, you take it away again! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And then you come with a debate of envy, which she cannot be more class-warring at all, and make yourselves and say: Yes, these are the high pensions! Well, they can give something! That's unfair! There are people who get less! – Yes, please, they have paid for many years too! They're not people who didn't do anything for it! They didn't steal it, they didn't win it, but they worked it out! That is the fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The injustice that these government parties assume here is that they are punishing those who perform it. If someone says after 25 years, Actually, I don't like it anymore, I'm reporting unemployed now and then I stay in the social hammock!, he gets your early starter bonus as well. And you think that's fair? You think that's fair, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? Did you think about it? Dear Green, I'm telling you today: This is the next thing that will be abolished. You were pulled over the table, in a manner that you couldn't see yourself so fast. You've been pulled over the table and you've been laid in. That's it. The ÖVP, without drawing with the eyelash, with a dash of your early starter bonus, on which you can imagine so much, will cool immediately, because it is simply not fair and because it does not represent any compensation at all. Today, their Green Party, together with this ÖVP, together with this Social Degradation Party – and it has been known for many decades that the ÖVP is the Social Degradation Party – is a reduction in pensions for future pensioners in this country. Shame on that!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16417	May I ask you, Madam Member, to remove the Taferl again? Member of the Tsarits has been reported to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16448	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Minister! I thank the Lord every day in the evening for having nothing to do with the Freedom Party, I have to say quite honestly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Muchitsch, I very much appreciate you. You are a good social politician and you also know yourself in very, very many areas very, very well. I guess so. I've been politically active for 20 years now, and I've already got you when I've been has not yet been to the National Council, very much appreciated because you can really very, very many things quite well. However, I would ask myself whether you still know what you did on 20.12.2010, together with eight colleagues from SPÖ, who are still sitting in the National Council today, with colleagues Keck, with colleagues Krainer, with Mrs Kuntzl, with Mrs Bayr, with Dr. Matznetter. At the time, Alois Stöger, Doris Buresund, was the wife of Heinisch-Hosek. You, together with us, when you had government responsibility, introduced a bonus-malus system, with 4.2 percent reductions, because at that time you knew precisely that the system no longer works, because the grants from the federal government are increasing, we need to invest more and more in the pension system. At that time you were still state-bearing, then you were still a proud party. Look at you today! Today you are a populist party. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] That's what I owe to you, Mr. Muchich! At that time you decided to do so, at the time it was social, and the vintages 2014 to 2019 went to pension with deposits. I put it right now that you too understand, Mr Muchitsch; and Mr Wimmer, we will not abolish the hacker's pension! We will make them what we decided with you in 2010 and what entered into force in 2014, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whenever social democracy is not there, that's the devil's work. When she's there, it's all pipifein. So don't be mad at me! It will take even longer for you to enter a government, for just as you behave together, it will last for decades, I swear to you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's the hacker board? – With 540 contribution months, 45 years of contributions, you can retire early at 62 years, that is before the age of 65 – we have also decided with you, dear comrades –. These people deserved to be able to retire early, but it is our duty and duty as politicians to bear responsibility for this country that we also look at our children and grandchildren. And look at them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Muchitsch, I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss and chat with each other afterwards, because I believe that good things can certainly be decided with you too, of course, but you have had some good ideas in the past; this may be due to the fact that you have been sitting here in Parliament for a long time. We have managed with the early starter bonus to support those people who have already entered the profession between 15 and 20 years of age and will benefit very, very many women. With this Husch-pusch action from you in 2019 – you didn’t even believe you were getting a majority with the liberals, I must tell you honestly – you have put the pension system on the head. You have forgotten the public servants who benefit women anyway, you have forgotten the times of presence. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I mean, the federal army is squandering you, we know that, but the liberals have also voted in favour of it. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really wondering. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I am very grateful to Mr Koza. We did something with the early starter bonus. We will raise the women's pensions, which is extremely important to us – thank you For this, Mr Collegue, you can really do something about it! – and to the public servants we have not forgotten either, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] You have forgotten the public servants! I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We raise the small and medium-sized pensions, we raise the compensation allowance in 2021, we ensure safety in the pension system. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The chaos you set up in 2019 we will repair and fix again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[15:41]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16659	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Belakovich spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16686	My predecessor from ÖVP claimed that the years 2014 to 2019 would have gone into retirement with deposits. I'm actually correcting: The vintages 2014 to 2019 do not go to pension, vintage 2019 learns to go straight. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] They probably meant the vintages 1954 to 1957.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16717	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16738	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! It is noted which thin stalks the FPÖ has to cling to in this debate. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] The discount-free early board would be and has expired for men up to and including the birth of 1953, and the 54s then had to buy deposits, everybody knew that. If you wanted to prevent this, you should have thought in 2015: Attention, next year the 54's will be 62, and they will have deposits; we need to do this now, in 2015, to make sure that the 54's and 55's years do not have any further deposits. In 2015, when one had to reorganise this if one wanted to reorganize it, Rudi Hundstorfer was the Social Minister, and the chairman of the Committee on the Austrian National Council was the Member of Parliament Beppo Muchich. And neither MP Muchitsch nor MP Wimmer considered it necessary at the time, 2015 to preserve the vintages 1954 and 1955 from the deposits that are supposed to be so unfair. They didn't do that because they knew that the system is so logical: that someone who retired earlier takes his performance longer and can't get as much as someone who goes later. They knew that, found it to be correct, and were therefore inactive. However, a few days before the 2019 National Council election – the SPÖ was not exactly in the uproar, you can say, carefully – you have been looking for something and has dragged out a request overnight that had an extremely poor quality. I don't think anyone would think that this could be left unchanged, because you have to consider what you do with the public service, you have to consider what you do with the federal military times, with the civil service times – in fact, there are a number of questions that have not been resolved in this Husch-pusch request from 2019. Now, my colleague, Mr Muchich, turns to the speaker's desk, holds a taferl and says: There are more women in retirement than men. – Yes, of course, because the rule pension age is 60! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If the regular retirement age was 65 for women, the ratio would be quite equal or even fewer women would go in early retirement. I'm not assuming that Beppo Muchich has now thought a plea to raise the age of women's pension. So the SPÖ's double game is exposed. As a government party, she would have had it in her hand in 2015 to bend everything as you claim today to have ever wanted it. - You don't have that! This double game is very sad. I know the chairman of the committee otherwise as a characterful man, but the acting here is underground, and I wonder, Beppo, why you're here for such a thing. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] However, my group also sees – and there the SPÖ has a point – the early starter bonus very critical. Now, if you pretend to be saving the women's pensions, you're talking about it a little bit. Who's doing apprenticeship training? – These are much more boys than girls because many more girls go to a secondary school and therefore not so many insurance periods before the 20th century. [[Call: Today]] Have a birthday. A lot more boys have insurance periods before the 20th century. Birthday, so the early starter bonus will also be a man-suffering solution. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Apart from that, this should be an incentive to get into work early. Now you have to consider which 15-year-old is considering: Okay, I'll do a lesson, because then I'll get 1 Euro more pension in 50 years!? – With all appreciation: I was very busy with pensions very early, but I wouldn't have come at that time. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And if you find a 15-year-old who teaches for your comical euro, bring it to me, I'll pay him 1 euro on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16802	Mr Muchitsch spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16832	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Zarits said that the SPÖ would have voted in favour of the abolition of the hacker's pension on 20.12.2010. I correct and put right – a historical retrospect –: At that time, in 2003, the hacker scheme was decided under Schüssel and Haider until 2013. Before This hacker board ran out, it was Rudi Hundstorfer who managed to transfer the hacker board to permanent law in the coalition with the ÖVP. The price for this was that the ÖVP so requested.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16864	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e16886	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me say a few words on this very, very important issue, because I think a pension debate is one of the most important social policy debates that can be held. It would be good and I would very much welcome it if it were to be conducted in peace and with materiality, because it concerns very, very much. I think Austria has a very good pension system overall. For the time being, I would like to thank those – and many of them – who have built up what has developed the further development that has been made to ensure that we have a system of security in this country, and in doing so it must remain. But we already have some gaps in this system, and these gaps allow us to have age poverty in some areas, which is quite unbearable, that we have old age poverty, which we cannot simply accept and accept, ladies and gentlemen! And I think it is unsocial to accept this poverty of old age for years and decades and to deal with a women's average age pension of EUR 1,035. It's a shame from my point of view! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That would be... Euro...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Secondly, You know, since a few signs have been kept in high height, which I very much welcome, you already have to notice: Yes, it is, 45 years are enough – I see that as it is, absolutely – and therefore it is also right and important that this long-term insurance scheme remains in Austria. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] What we do is we return. [[Abg. Belakovich: The schools remain closed, I know!]] Beppo Muchich, whom I really like and appreciate, has made this visible: Life is often made up of political compromises, and we know this also because of some four-eye discussions that we have from time to time. It was also a social-democratic social minister – whom I greatly appreciated by the way and still appreciate very much, he was a great predecessor, an excellent politician – who enforced it. We will return to this compromise regime – no more and no less. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Third point: Let's stick to this number, 1 035 euros. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What I can guarantee you here in this House is that I will benefit from every opportunity offered in this House and in this legislative period to take steps against poverty in order to improve the situation of women in this country, as far as pensions are concerned, gradually. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Worm]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] We have started with the current increase in pensions, the current adjustment and the increase in compensation allowances; we are now implementing the step with the early starter bonus; and I can tell you that there will still be many such steps to improve the living situation of people in this country in poverty situations of old age and there will have to be them. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The next year, we will look at these fundamental questions, how we can secure our pension system in a sustainable way – and I am also right for the committee president to say that we conducted the debate in the Committee two months ago – how we can answer these fundamental issues of justice in the pension system. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I'm reaching out to all those who want to get in there. I think we have a lot to do in very different areas. My goal for the future would be to develop this together in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, because justice in the pension system will have to be a central concern for the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17004	I call Mr Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17025	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's important to me: Before I start, I would like to address something that has been disturbing to me since the beginning of this budget week, namely that you, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy and also of the liberals, constantly repeat this argument and submit to your colleagues arrogance, ignorance or no skills in mathematics. I simply do not find this order, and you can consider for yourself the degree to which it is superior outside, if you simply take a opposite view and explain it with the ignorance of the fellow Members. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't like that, sorry! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Yeah, it's true what you're saying: The long-term insurance scheme is, of course, about pensioners who have paid particularly long and particularly high. Their contributions are very, very close to your pension, that is undisputed. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Treasure.]] Quite honest: We are also glad that there are these pensioners, who for 45 years, almost half a century, with their contributions strengthen the pension system, the solidarity system, and that is our great thanks to them – no question! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The contributions of this group of persons to the Solidar system are very, very high, but it is true – and you must not forget – that: If someone goes into retirement free of charge – that's a mathematical bill, and we can't simply disable the insurance subject matter – then this person won't get a pension according to their contributions, but a higher pension, which is higher than their actual contributions. In the case of the hackler board, that's 20 percent. We take this 20 percent supplement and distribute it to many, women and men, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I believe that this also makes the whole thing fairer, because in the discussion about hackler's pension, we constantly forget – especially the colleagues in social democracy and the FPÖ – that there is a group that has just unemployed times – because of job loss, because of insecurity in the labour market, because of care periods, because of illness and, and, and,. All these too are hackers, and I am glad that with the early starter bonus we make a real hacker rule from a discount-free early board, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, I can also tell you: I'm glad we got the early starter bonus. It is a wonderful example of politics that one can also leave behind the past, that one can create something new, something more just, from which many, many, many benefit. There are ten times more who benefit from it, they are women and men who we wanted to support from the beginning with the hackler scheme, hackers who have been hacking since their youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17134	Mr Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17155	The fact that the Federal Chancellor is often disrespectful of the House if he stays away or plays around with his mobile phone is what we know, but now he is ordering the hacker scheme, the abolition of this long-term insurance scheme, and the Greens have to wind. You, Mrs Tomaselli, have just said that we can ‘ create something new’. Why can't we both live, why can't you leave the long-term insurance scheme and create an early starter bonus for apprentices? I don't understand! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: (making gestures with both hands as if he were throwing something into the air)... money, money, money!]] Starting money: Money is a good example. The Federal Government waives billions of wealth tax, billions of inheritance tax, billions of capital and income available if only a asset tax were to be introduced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to NEOS.]] Who will pay for this crisis? – 90 percent of workers already pay! He orders the abolition of the long-term insurance scheme, and at the same time you do not, of course, want to discuss it in the Committee because you cheated on the reduction of all pensions. That is disrespectful, and that is really a total uncertainty of the people who pay. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us come to the employment biographies of women very briefly! Everyone now discovers the low women's pensions, and everyone says: Would you have done something! – Since 1993, the Constitution has set out: We are only starting to increase the age of women's pensions when we have achieved equality. Who always prevented us from living the compatibility properly, that we forced the father's care to introduce salary transparency? Who has prevented child rearing from getting even better? Who has prevented many women from having a legal claim to return from part-time to full-time? [[Abg. Kollross: I have an idea: ÖVP!]] - You were! [[towards ÖVP]] And the greens are playing with me! [[Complementary and intermediate calls at SPÖ.]] That too is disrespectful! Nor did women deserve that this early start for many is not at all possible, that they will get only these 12 euros grossly per month, because they have only brought together a year. Many don't even bring this together for a year, and you forgot about that. So the new one is pretty old!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17250	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17271	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, I've had to look at my phone for a moment, since when The Members of this Parliament have been: since 1999. They were not only present as Members of the House with twenty pension decisions, but as ministers they also sat at the table, as Chancellor Werner Faymann, to whom I hope everyone can remember, a bonus malus system has proposed, and when the SPÖ took away the discount-free early board. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] There you were sitting at the table, even as a minister, and since 1999 in Parliament. [[Congratulations and Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This zigzag course of the SPÖ is completely unexplainable and, I think, very significant for the state within the SPÖ. I have always thought that the SPÖ is something of the next generations – you also have a few young Members in your ranks – of the abolition of pension privileges and of the justice between men and women. [[Call the SPÖ:Don't play the generations against each other!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I believe that these are fundamental principles of social democracy, and that is why I find this zigzag course completely incomprehensible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Not even the new coalition partner of SPÖ in the Federal Capital of Vienna can have a positive impact on the SPÖ. The topic of pensions has not been completely covered by a single pension system during the negotiations in Vienna, nothing from the abolition of the incredible pension privileges in red Vienna. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] There is absolutely nothing to be seen in this punched-up coalition, Mr Loacker. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ government has also prevailed there, and this is a step backwards especially for the next generations. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What are you doing... Pension system?]] But now to the facts: Yesterday, Statistics Austria published the population forecast, which clearly shows that there is a need for action in the pension system. [[Call: Then do something]] – I say that especially for those who still do not want to do so. [[Call the SPÖ:Start with the farmers!]] From next year, starting in 2021, there are more seniors in Austria than children and young people. This shows that fewer and fewer people are the support of this pension system, financing it and paying it. We must finally raise the actual retirement age to the legal level. [[Call: What are you doing for it? Nothing]] That is what we are about to do with decisions such as this mile away. What is there for a legal retirement age if one does not have to stick to it if it is even more attractive to retire sooner and without any deductions? That's not fair. The generation contract is not a one-way road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff: You've been in government for 30 years!]] The reintroduction of the discount-free early board is and remains an election sugar of FPÖ and SPÖ at the expense of the next generations. How successful this expensive election sugar was, we all saw each other in the election evening: There was the historically worst result for the SPÖ in 2019 and minus 10 percent for the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are now repairing this short-sighted election decision and introducing a fair early starter bonus in the pension system. This is a bonus for all those who have started working early, who have made a teaching and have since entered the pension system. This system is more fair to all professional groups and above all an appreciation of the teaching. Police officers who have been excluded up to now are also entitled to this. It is fairer to women, because the hacker scheme has de facto excluded women. For example, hairdressers, the heroes of the crisis, have earned this bonus and would have gone empty in the hacker scheme. With SPÖ and FPÖ, the pension scheme would only have gone further apart. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] It is also fairer to the next generations when this expensive election sugar is finally withdrawn. For us as a People's Party is and remains clear: Anyone who has worked his entire life should receive a fair pension in the end. For us as a People's Party, it is also natural for all generations to hold together, young and older, especially in times of a pandemic. This is also part of the generation contract, and it works in two directions and is not a one-way road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17439	Mr Bernhard referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17463	Mr President. Mr Heinisch-Hosek has claimed that the Republic waives billions of inheritance tax. I'm actually correcting: The inheritance and gift tax has been abolished by a social democratic government under Gusenbauer and has been introduced annually in the last full year, 2007, and in the years before, 110 to 150 million euros. If you're fighting something, you should stick to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17494	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17515	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Because today it was said that it was a show or a theatre performance, or we should show a little less emotion: I do not think you still understand from the Greens and the ÖVP that this is a very emotional issue for hundreds of thousands of Austrians. [[Call the ÖVP: Go!]] I assume that you too will have received addresses from citizens, from interested parties or from interested parties in the future. I would just like to mention one of these letters very briefly here, namely that of a 55-year-old woman who wrote several of us, who was also in expectation because her pension was within reach. She had now received a pension of EUR 1 956 gross in five years. It is precisely this woman who will meet these cuts in five years' time. I say it again: This concerns people outside. We do not do a theatre performance here, but for many Austrians this is a very, very important topic and also a very ideological topic. I would like to say it again in all clarity, summarized because it goes a little bit back and forth: There is now still a valid law before this vote will take place today, which allows you to go to your normal pension at the earliest after 45 years of work from 62 onwards. This concerns men and, of course, it concerns women. Who, in principle, is concerned? – Of course, it concerns all those who make a teaching, the ominous skilled workers we all look for so much. But it also concerns all those who may not have been very good at school, but who have worked very hard for 45 years, partly as auxiliary workers. It is also maturants who could come to this enjoyment, and the ominous nurses. All those who have already affected it and will be concerned in the future, except the ÖVP and the Greens are now hurling out this law. – That is why I am very clear that there is a lot of emotion there. In summary, perhaps once again the positions of the parties: With NEOS, it is clear that they are in line – they generally reject the pension system – at least clearly. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's not true! ...!]] You can see it that way when you're ideological about it. At least Mr Loacker has an idea of what he is talking about. With the Greens, I save myself a profound judgment. We also see the Greens taking part in this issue. This does not matter to them because, of course, they do not have these people, whom I mentioned earlier, either as voters or as officials in their ranks. That means that it passes on to them without trace and does not tang them either. Okay, that's also an announcement. We liberals – I think, ever since Haider times, that's what goes back – have always been there for those who are brave and diligent. We are very glad that in 2019 we managed to save exactly that and to keep living together with the SPÖ. At the SPÖ I have to say: Friendship! I am glad when the SPÖ returns to a social democratic path, where it also represents workers and employees. That wasn't always so clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Rainer Wimmer.]] Of course, you have also paid a blood duty to the ÖVP, which they now constantly accuse you of, but who is in coalition with the ÖVP knows that you often have to pay a blood duty. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: But in Ibiza we are already ourselves...!]] But perhaps other times come, and we can work together socially. We are definitely ready to do so. We speak here – once again – of net payers, that is, of those people who have paid more into the pension system than they get out. In fact, this is the first break of a promise by German chancellors in short. It's a tax increase you're making. They increase the tax rate for people who have worked for more than 45 years. It is the first tax increase of German chancellors in short, he has broken his promise. [[Abg. Gödl: This is a totally nonsensory!]] [[Abg. Gödl: A complete nonsensus!]] For life expectancy once again – I have already mentioned it –: Workers live at seven years shorter than academics, men live at five years less than women – just to clarify the figures, data and facts, as the Greens have said. So you can see: In fact, the masks have fallen with ÖVP and green, and you can see where they stand morally and socially. I hope that this will become more and more common to the population and that they will also be presented in the elections the bill accordingly. A subject that has completely gone down, which we have been discussing in recent years, is the luxury pensions, and there the Greens – that was then the Schwentner Members – had a fall of sin, just like the Koza Member now. You can keep that to her forever. They voted in favour at the time because there was a luxury pension contribution. These 40 000 luxury pensioners, with 10 000 euros and more, in Austria, who are still laughing in their villas today about this shame that the ÖVP has made to allow the Greens to agree, and it is also with this early starter bonus. There the greens just fell by lying down, but unfortunately they also have little idea of this matter of God's theme. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To sum this up for me: Morally, this is a piggy, what you are doing today, and, as far as the diligence and performance in Austria is concerned, a death sentence. [[Call the ÖVP: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[He-Rufe at ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17638	Mr Worm, for the use of the word'sweeper', I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Worm – on his way to his seat – turns towards the President and bows down.]] Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e17676	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Worm, you haven't been listening to me for the last time. You have just said in your speech that for the Greens all this is a meaty issue, because neither are the Green hackers nor do they know hackers or are they chosen by hackers. – I said it on Tuesday, I would like to say it again: I'm a hacker kid. My parents are hackers, their friends are hackers, their acquaintances are hackers, namely in the truest sense of word hard and hard working people. [[Abg. Worm: They don't choose green, probably! They don't choose green either!]] None of them has seen this hacker scheme even a single cent – no one! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Muchich, I am surprised that you are here to advise the government parties to spread Fakenevs, and at the next moment you are manipulatively keeping a Taferl up to the level where women's retirement times are at the normal regular pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] But this has nothing to do with the discount-free long-term pension. That's just not true, no! - Apples and pears, no! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ries.]] They always say it is a supposed argument that this scheme would not benefit women. I can remind you of the numbers again – once again! –: In the first half of 2020, 7 257 men applied this scheme, and how many women? How many? - One! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] A woman, colleague Muchich, one! [[Abg. Worm: You still don't understand! You need a follow-up, Mrs Colleague!]] One, my colleague, a single woman! [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] Then you say it's the hackers that would benefit from it. – That’s just not true, you know! Please look at the numbers! The average pension of those who use this rule is 2 800 euros, and at the same time we have an poverty of 1 300 euros for women with pensions. [[Abg. Musical:... heightening for women!]] You think that's fair? You think that's fair, Mr. Muchich? That's fair? - No, that's not fair. That's definitely not fair. What we are doing now is to introduce a different system with the early starter bonus, which also benefits women, and that is so important and good, and that is why we are doing it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] That is why I am now also submitting an amendment. This is about the amendment tabled by Members August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, colleagues on the draft law in the report of the Committee on Social Security and Social Security, on the proposal 958/A concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Self-Employed Social Insurance Act and introducing the Early Starter Bonus. The application is available, has already been distributed and has been submitted with it. However, I would like to point out that a word processing error has occurred in the explanatory statement. [[Call the FPÖ:typical!]] On page 10 of Art. 1 Z 3 and 4 must say it correctly: ==References====External links== birthday. – In the text of the request we have tabled, the word is missing for months. I would ask you to take this into account. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[16:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18738	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported, distributed and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18762	Mr President. Dear Claudia, Mrs. Pakolm, at the speech you gave today, I really wonder: How threatened can you be? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Prince: Well, well!]] How threatened can you be? – Actually, I am very glad that you gave the speech right before my speech today, because otherwise I would have referred to what you – I think it was yesterday – sent out. When I read it, I thought: You can't touch your head! [[Further call of the Abg. Prince.]] It's about sending you out as president of the Young People's Party, where you're demanding a generation-friendly pension system. I think that all this is a bit contradictory in itself, I think we have already discussed it in detail, but in principle we welcome it. What was also very funny is that you have written down whole sentences, whole paragraphs of what is in our Junos party program – but we are also happy when we are there. [[Cheerfulness and Headshakes of the Abg. Plasolm]] In the last paragraph, you have written what you have repeated today, namely, you have accused NEOS in Vienna and SPÖ, the new Vienna city government, that there is no big throw in the change of the pension system. – I mean, how unreality is that? You are a member of the party that has been co-responsible for this scrapping pension system for decades. Making yourself here and sending out things like this, I think is really outrageous. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Today, Mr Loacker has already done this – to abolish the discount-free early pension and, so to speak, to replace this scheme by a new, equally expensive pension scheme, namely the early starter bonus – and this is neither feminist nor correct, but my colleague Brandstötter will not go into it. It is again a regulation for the top ten thousand of the pension system; we have discussed this in detail in the last few days. The early starter bonus is distributed according to the casting cannon principle, it burdenes the subsequent generations as much as the discount-free early pension, and those who stay on the track again are the young people in this country. To return to you once again, Claudia Plapolm, and to the young MEPs in the ÖVP – there are some who have thrown all their beliefs overboard –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plasolm]] [[Abg. Plasolm shakes the head]] I don't understand how you can still look in the mirror when you decide on such things. Now we have the discount-free early board, that's one thing. But there's also a second thing – and you've had the members of the old ÖVP in your parliament club pull over the table properly – namely the luxury pensions. I said that on Tuesday. On Tuesday we decided on a pension increase and on this pension increase I took the example of old Chancellor Vranitzky: For the chauffeur of the old chancellor Vranitzky, a limit of 35 euros is set, so the pension increase for the average citizens is limited to 35 euros, but the luxury pensioners – a bowl, a Vrannitzky – receive hundreds of euros in pension increase. That you're going through this, I really think it's incredible! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The fact that one hears nothing from the Greens about this supposed mistake, which has shuddered very nicely, is significant anyway and shows that there is very little competence and knowledge in the area of the pension system. So we are again experiencing a narrow pension package for the luxury pensioners, after a narrow pension package for the farmers. I wonder, Where is a package for the next generation, for the next generation, for the boys? [[Abg. Sieber:... with the farmhouse!]] Dear ÖVPler, dear young ÖVPler, before you make such broadcasts next time and give such three-way speeches here, make sure that the pension system really becomes generation-friendly! [[Call to the ÖVP:... forbid us to speak?- Oh, my God!]] Accept our requests and no longer distribute gifts to luxury pensioners! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18866	Mr Niss has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e18888	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I am very glad that after the three session days since Tuesday, the debate at the assignment meeting last night and with this debate today, this theatre donor also ends. I believe that Mr Leichtfried's speech today in the morning has shown us: In fact, this belongs to the Löwinger stage rather than to a full debate here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to ask you, SPÖ, FPÖ: How many answers do you need? Mr Loacker mentioned it yesterday, Badelt, Kocher, Pöltner – not all Erz-ÖVPler – all say that the so-called hacker regime should be abolished. [[Abg. Kollross: But he's not an expert!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] And why? – It's quite logical: She's crazy, she's counterproductive and she's just not fair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] It is unfair to women, it is unfair to those who went to an early retirement pension in the years before, and it is not fair to the next generation in particular. It's easy to understand! If you think that in 1970 people worked an average of 45 years and were in retirement for 14 years and that people now work 20 percent shorter and are 50 percent longer in retirement, then it simply can't go out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] Everyone understands that, that's a milkmaid bill, that even understands my youngest daughter, who's still in kindergarten, but the SPÖ just doesn't understand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But your former Minister of Social Affairs Rudi Hundstorfer understood. He's been quoted many times today, and not without reason. He said the so-called hackler regulation was a system mistake, and that's why he also introduced the bonus malus system, and that was good, because he simply wanted to lead it to the legal age of entry. That's logical, that's very good, and that's important. It is not only that this so-called hackler regime is counterproductive because we let people pay less long and they are longer in retirement, but we also withdraw the expertise from the labour market. We have such a great shortage of skilled workers, I can tell you yourself from your own company. [[Abg. Martin Graf: When you're in distress for ten years... long time...!]] Tens of thousands of people are missing the economy, industry, the entire location Austria, prosperity in Austria. [[Abg. Kollross: So the pensioners pay...!]] I can only tell you that the abolition of the hacker arrangement combined with the early starter bonus is a win-win situation. [[Call the SPÖ: For whom?]] I know the SPÖ doesn't understand that, the SPÖ has very much lost-less situations, that's what you noticed last year: On the one hand, this amendment was tabled, the hacker regulation was reintroduced, and on the other hand the choice was lost. Maybe you should change your strategy, we'd love to explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19001	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19023	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I'm really tired when the ÖVP turns out, others throws up dirt squats, even driving a zigzag course – a few years ago to ban smoking, no to smoke ban, no to smoke ban, no to smoking ban – and that's what others say. [[Abg. Hoefinger: Don't exaggerate!]] That's a joke, if you don't really drive a clear line yourself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] One thing I can say quite clearly: We are not sorry to fight for half-half, we are not sorry to stress the compatibility of family and profession over and over again, we are not sorry to work for the fight against poverty. We are sorry, however, when the Black and Green Federal Government tries some flicking work again. In fact, it has been said that next year we will look at all the pensions in respect of professional groups, with regard to age of access, deductions, non-debits, women, men. Now, in the autumn, stop some husch-fuch again, just shoot something again quickly again before the bug. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The average monthly pension for women is 982 euros. EU-Silc says that in 2018, 645,000 women from 20 years of age were affected by poverty. But what we can expect now is that not all women who are in retirement have a sixty-six more per month on the account. [[Abg. Belakovich: Only the tax!]] Think of schooling! What if someone goes to a BMHS – HTL, HAK, HBLW? Then, de facto, one probably does not come to this twelve months of working time. In addition, this early starter bonus also manifests quite clearly: Stay out of office. Once I sit down, I'm 20 anyway and I don't have a claim anymore. Mr Loacker also mentioned: Only one third of all women do a teaching, the rest just go to school; this is also very important. The current generation probably also has not so much in stock, because we know the numbers of youth unemployment. Many young people are also going to school for this reason, especially in the present generation, because teaching places are missing because jobs are missing. Even there are certainly not the beautiful numbers that one paints. On the compatibility of family and profession: With many other social partners, the Industrial Union has found that there is a lack of EUR 1 billion for childcare. 1 billion euros! In the conservative Austria, it is still such that women who choose a full-time career after the child are stigmatized. That's where we have to go! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] In 2020, women earn 19.3 percent less than men. As long as this is still so far apart, we do not need to talk about fair pensions, because as long as women earn almost 20 percent less than men, it can never be fair in the pension.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19099	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19121	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister! Dear spectators at home! I would like to address a very special aspect of the presentation of the early starter bonus, namely the central sales argument, because we have now experienced: The early starter bonus makes women happy and the men as well, he is square, practical, good, he is the tenderest temptation since there are pensions. He's already alive while you're still living, he's got advantage through technology, he's a financial optimist and the longest Praline in the world. Even cats would buy him, and he's mostly feminist. At least the Green and ÖVP unisono claim that they want to sell this early starter bonus in a marketing jumble as a feminist master achievement. – Quite honestly, that then awakens the tiger in me, so let us come to the facts, facts, facts! [[Rejoicing with Members of NEOS and SPÖ]] The fact is that the early starter bonus is just as expensive as the discount-free early board. The fact is that it eliminates the insurance principle and primarily helps the ÖVP client. Why does he help the ÖVP client? – There is a quite homogeneous family image in the ÖVP. There is the man with the high income, the woman with the smaller income, therefore the man has the higher pension, the woman the lower pension. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Gabriela Schwarz]] [[Call the ÖVP: This is a cliché!]] Both then receive neither the compensation allowance nor the pension bonus, but the early starter bonus, which both can receive in the future, without needy examination, without the examination of the family income. So this bonus is soft and doesn't work. But what would actually have been feminist? – Feminist would have been if the compensation allowance was increased. This concerns 200 000 people in Austria, 67 percent of whom are men – apologies, I am already brainwashed – 67 percent of them women, 33 percent of them men, and it would not only have been much more favourable, it would have helped those who are actually in need. That's good, better, more gender-friendly. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We must turn on many screws to help women fight the threat of old age poverty. This includes the splitting of pensions between couples – this is an important step when it finally comes and then is properly implemented. Quality child care and a legal claim on it from the first year of life are essential for couples, above all women, to be able to self-determination in the profession. I can only advise all women to deal with their finances. Women need to get an overview, they need to know what is happening to them! You need to know what precautions there are that make sense. We need to look forward to having it when we need it. All in all, therefore, the Greens have once again been properly pulled over the table by the ÖVP, from the discount-free men's breakfast in the sense of the ÖGB to the pension bonus for well-earned families in the sense of the ÖVP family. Congratulations, ÖVP! That's what it says: We're playing what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19175	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Stäger for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19197	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! When I went into politics – and also as a social minister – I was one of the important things: that people have a perspective and a future, that they have a job, that children learn something in school, and that our old people, when they retire, no longer have to beg. What does this party of government do today? – First of all, we have the problem that many no longer have work, because they do not bring together good crisis management. The second is: One closes the schools so that our children can no longer learn! [[Abg. Totter: The schools are not closed!]] Thirdly, Mr Sozialminister: My first work as a Social Minister was that I brought it together that we increased the compensation allowance. What is the first work of this Social Minister? - He's shortening the pensions. That's not good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To Mrs Niss: The penthouses in which people like you live have been financed by workers who have worked for 40 or 45 years in the company. These are the people who work in Laakirchen, in Kirchham, in Grünau, in Scharnstein, in Vorchdorf, who have financed it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Fürlinger and Mr Pfurtscheller.]] They want to go into retirement and don't have any supplements in the pension. I would have expected you to have more respect. I also call the names of these people who say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know what's going on? – In exactly the companies in which they have to work, people with 62 in retirement are sent and they have to take the fees. There are some who want to work longer. That's the cleaner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Again to the ÖVP: What you do here is smooth expropriation of contributors, because they pay the pension after 45 years, 47 years and more actually themselves. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] You pay these pensions yourself! [[Abg. Gödl: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Absolutely wrong! Take a calculator to hand!]] I wanted to make that clear again. For dispersing: Do you know what you've done? – First, you take away money from pensioners – every pensioner who will retire in the future – because there is no first pension increase. And do you know what else you're doing? – The widows get a discount once again on their already low pension. These are mostly women. So, if one of you says you did something for the women, then someone else's kidding me, please don't!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19281	For your expression “sausage” and “fucking” I give you a call for order. I really ask that the dignity of the House be preserved despite all the sharpness of the political position. Mr Keck. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The President-in-Office has just spoken about the dignity of the House. I have been in this house for 18 years, and when it comes to the cause of the workers, I am often emotional because I am a worker myself. I'm there with rains, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm never under the belt line. I have received an e-mail on the basis of my speech on Tuesday, which the President has also received and which stands in it, I am spreading hatred and hatred in this House and I am supposed to put back my position; I am supposed to shout waste bins, kneels, I am supposed to yell seats and lanterns. And, ladies and gentlemen, now it starts: That's what a Director-General of the High Finance writes! I don't care if such an e-mail comes, ladies and gentlemen, but do you know what's harmful about this whole thing? This mail was sent to my service provider, the Director-General of Voestalpine, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Voestalpine and others. If this is the style of making workers here in this Parliament mouth-dead, ladies and gentlemen, then you have all cut each other! Right now I will stand up for the interests of the workers, with all the emotion I have! I will not let myself be banned in this house, I will tell you in all clarity! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I'll look over to the greens, because that's from your side. That's exactly where that comes from. Look at your friends! They write such e-mails. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I would like to pass it on, ladies and gentlemen. That's it. There an attempt is being made to ban a group of people in Austria who are already weakly represented in this House. I can only tell you: I won't let it happen! I will continue to stand up for the interests of the workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I look at this bonus hat – because it's not something else – I can only say: I'm beginning to expect. Let's take a 15-year-old male apprentice. After three years, he's finished, that is, 18 years old. Then he goes to the federal army, he has to, and this time is not counted for him, even in the bonus. Perhaps he has also done civil service, which is similar to the German army and is not counted. Then he maybe goes back into the hacks with 20, then he has a lot of luck grossly just 36 euros – with good luck 36 euros gross! When he goes into retirement – and I assume for this example what you have done, that is to say, the first pension adjustment resettled – he does not get it, because it only makes you aliquot. When he retires in October, November, December, he only arrives in the next year. Then take the 36 euros away again! That is, on the one hand, you want to sell the Austrians that you give them money, and on the other hand you steal it again when they retire! That is exactly an injustice that really belongs to this House abolished!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19379	Mr Wimmer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19401	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Niss, it was a little strong what you were doing. [[Call the ÖVP: Go on! Go on!]] If you think we Social Democrats don't understand this, and your little daughter, who checks it, then I can tell you: These are, of course, all industrialists who as such have no interest at all, whether there are any discounts or whether they are abolished. [[At the gallery, SPÖ delegates detach a transparency with the trade union logo PRO-GE and with the inscription “45 years are enough! Prevent theft of pensions! Already 100,000 supporters! www.45-years-undug.at’]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you need to know: The ones you're taking away the deposits now are exactly those who earn your millions, Mrs. Niss, dear, these are exactly your hackers that make you rich! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Tanja Graf]] Dear friends and dear Mr. Federal Minister! I always have to smile a little bit if you're going through a little bit of the senior teacher. [[towards Federal Minister Anschober]] But that doesn't matter, that's right, because in real life you were one. But be quite honest: With this measure you are taking today, you are betraying the workers! Just sit down and say that too! You'd have had good approaches. I thought: You see, now he's going through, the Social Minister. General reform, you have said - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19447	Excuse me, honourable Member, for a moment I can interrupt you. It's 40 seconds, I'm allowed to ask you to roll the transparency back in. Please, it's photographed, it's medial. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19466	You said you were going to set up an overall reform. I thought, you see, that's something, you can talk about it. That's where we have to sit together and discuss it. But the blacks have passed over them, and their greens defend the insanity that the ÖVP makes! I don't understand at all. The ÖVP plays with you foxes and hen, and you do not break this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear friends, dear friends, today is a black day for employees. Today, the government will be carrying bombs and grenades over them, it will use its majority. ÖVP, Greens and NEOS will punish the diligent workers today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Again: The people who are being punished here today have worked 45, 46, 47 years. It has already been mentioned: This has been done in a night-and-nebulous action, ladies and gentlemen, without consideration, without any committee consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, you behave like hedge protectors. This is not worthy of democracy, dear friends and friends! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's good people watch. It is good that today at least this is transmitted directly on a transmitter. 4 500 euros will be taken away from people for a lifetime, ladies and gentlemen. That's a lot of money. During the entire pension period – which we have already spoken about several times – you will reduce the pensions of people by an average of more than 100 000 euros. This is an insanity, which is actually a crime, since we know that an active relationship between workers in the year 36 000 euros, that is, workers earn 36 000 euros, and 100 000 euros now take them away during the pension period. This is a groundless community, ladies and gentlemen – and that must be referred to as it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I looked at the criminal code a little bit. In the case of theft of 100 000 euros, there are up to three years of imprisonment, in German: up to three years of ports, my dear friends. I'm telling you, these are predators, they're predators. Shame you're doing this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the early starter bonus: I think that's the biggest eye-catching ever. Mr Wöginger spoke yesterday, yesterday always about a bonus malus system. – There's no such thing as a big joke. I ask you, since we know that an average of 300 euros will be taken and I therefore only see one malus: Where's the bonus, my guesses? Ladies and gentlemen? On the other hand, there are a few euros back. That was invented with the 60 euros, that's not true! There are no child training periods, no presence service, no civil service, no internship. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] You'll bet on the people and you'll know very well. You think people are stupid, ladies and gentlemen, and I just don't think that's going to happen to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you one more thing: You're going to stumble over this arrogance, maybe not now, but you're going to go on this way and sometime you're gonna be snucking over it. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of justice has already been raised – I am a friend of holistic viewpoints, and if we really are discussing the whole system, we need to know what we are talking about: ASVG workers and employees earn their pension to 88 percent themselves, only a small part the state has to bear. It looks different with the self-employed. I am saying this because we always get good advice from the Chamber of Commerce, from your employers. Then at least say that the hackers as taxpayers, above all, subsidize your pension by 36 percent, because you are paying just 64 percent of it! Tell me once again who is really financing your pensions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the farmers – let us now sit as it is –: 16 percent earn themselves and 84 percent pay the Austrian taxpayer. Then, of course, there are commissions – you have mentioned them today – that are so to speak used as a person's license and give opinions, for example, the Pension Insurance Commission. There are a few ladies and gentlemen, who are constantly on television and who are simply very keen on the fact that people get less pension. Your proposal is always the same: introduce discounts and reduce pensions. This is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am also saying this because the Lord and the lady who always put it very hard on the tapet are not an average pensioner. You know that? – The head of section does not have 2 000 euros of pension, ladies and gentlemen, he probably gets the 8 000 euros, and the politician, who has been very, very long in politics, is still in the old system and gets a political pension for the ASVG-pension – and they always direct us to what we really have to do! [[Abg. Gödl: How high is your pension?- Oh, my God!]] This is objectionable, and we do not leave it here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, to the Greens: Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Where is your social conscience? Where's your sense of justice? Markus Koza – where is he? –, what happened to you? What's wrong with you? I know you as an established social politician. We've been sitting together in the board of directors for years, you've always given us orders Look at the women, do something, do something! See that a little bit goes on! – Now you would have the opportunity and nothing would happen! [[Abg. Stögmüller: Is he still! ... Social politician!]] That's actually what's happening to Humbug. Ladies and gentlemen, you, as greens, let yourself pull something like this from the table and don't know how the ÖVP rides with your sleds at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will be an opportunity to show where you are actually standing today. It will show up: Are the workers worth something to you, or are the workers wring you? It is clear to us as social democrats and trade unionists: People who have worked for 45 years and have paid contributions must not be punished. That is why we say, dear members of the Federal Government: Hands away from the pensions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19589	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. The President will start at the Tea Salon at around 5 p.m. The duration of the President's office is inestimable. I interrupt the session as announced now after the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19637	The majority of Members are present again, and I can resume the interrupted sitting. As agreed, I put the votes to agenda items 26 to 30 to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and proceed with the completion of the agenda. I should like to say that the vote has been taken on this subject. This is prepared and carried out at the end of this block. We agreed in the President that the decision taken yesterday by the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2024 had not been properly implemented due to the fact that the amendment tabled at second reading had not been sufficiently supported. The request was properly submitted, but not sufficiently supported, because five signatures are necessary and not four, and I was falsely not counting it. From this situation, of course, the decision-making at the third reading has not been properly achieved as such. There were objections to the Official Protocol before 4 p.m., and on the one hand I agree with it that we should do so. On the other hand, the decision will be forwarded to the Federal President's office, because the decision-making process was also carried out at the end of the vote. At the same time, the parties have agreed, in principle, to reorganise that and, by introducing the Federal Financial Framework Act by means of a Council of Ministers decision in the same way as before, that is to say, in the issue of amendment request, to also handle it accordingly. There will be a second assignment session today, on which further procedures are currently consulting the club directors, and we will make a stand-in-chief once again, if necessary, so that we can communicate the further procedure. In this sense, we shall continue on the agenda. [[18:01:54]] 31. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 965/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the end of immigration to our social system (456d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19700	We're now on the 31st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19727	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This request concerns the adoption of the new Social Assistance Act in the last government period under the turquoise-blue, black-blue government. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] At that time – and when we remember the autumn of 2017, it was also the talk of it, especially in the ÖVP: One has to break immigration into the social system a little, because of course we have recognized that we have very, very many immigrants and very, very many asylum-seekers who come from the asylum system and migrate directly into social assistance, at the time minimum security. That was what the Federal Government wanted to end, prevent, and, of course, there were long negotiations, very long negotiations. Of course, for us, the Freeman was always what we don't want: We don't want people coming to us and getting the complete minimum security immediately. That is why it was an important point for us to say: It is necessary that people also learn German when they are here. This is the first and most important contribution these people can make. However, this has, unfortunately, been removed from the Constitutional Court, so these people now have no reason at all to authorize the German language to integrate here. In other words, they can now come and seek asylum – and we have seen the number of asylums increased by 44 percent in October of this year – so these people can come, and once they have asylum status in Austria, four months later they fall out of basic care and directly into minimum security. We wanted to break this path. Unfortunately, this has not been done quite well, but many other things have been repacked into this minimum security new, into which social assistance has been repacked. For example, there was a bonus for people with disabilities, which is those who are particularly difficult to communicate on the labour market, and it is precisely those who also need to make a minimum guarantee in such a way that they can live well on it. There was also a bonus for single parents. It was also particularly important for us to have access to wealth not immediately after half a year, but that it is shifted a bit backwards, for for example, if a single mother lives in a home that she may have inherited, has been given, and then has a minimum of 100 euros, because she deserves too little, because she may not get a living, the public hand would go right away and access the base book. We wanted to prevent this, because we wanted to make this social assistance new to what the name says, a social assistance for people who have simply been in need without guilt. Two federal states immediately implemented this. These were Lower Austria and Upper Austria; other federal states are now very reluctant. In the Committee, Mr Bundesminister, They told us: Vienna then begins the preparatory work. – This is not particularly satisfactory if you say that the preparatory work is now under way. New social assistance should have been implemented and implemented for a long time. That is exactly where this request is intended, namely that Vienna be called upon to finally implement it. What particularly amazed me was that the ÖVP did not go along with it, because in the Vienna election campaign, it was Mr. President-in-Office of the Council, Minister of Finance, Blümel, who has been big in the media and who has criticized it, namely that Vienna has still not implemented social assistance Newly – and there Mr. Blümel is perfectly right – and that what is going on in Vienna is an insanity. There too Mr Blümel was right, but obviously his ÖVP is not ready, as the Minister is asking to write the Implementing Act for Vienna. We therefore make this request and hope that the ÖVP will now also give its assent to this request within the meaning of Mr Blumel's Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19782	I do not have any more words to speak about this. That is why this debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I will put the vote at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and continue on the agenda. [[18:06:40]] 32. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 496/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (457 d.a.) 33. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 713/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues, on the increase in the net rate of replacement in relation to unemployment benefit (COVID-19 measure) (458 e.g.) 34. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 (459 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19846	We come to points 32 to 34 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Markus Vogl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19873	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! We are discussing the one-time payment for unemployed people in our country, which has already been made with the help of an amendment. At the same time, we have made applications for a permanent increase in unemployment benefit. Those who have been listening to this house for a long time have heard a lot about: It needs less bureaucracy. . If I look at this request now, who is trying to criticise the fact that people who are in the field of health care were excluded from this one-time payment for the first time, then I see that there is a bureaucracy sample that I do not understand. It has, of course, been tried to deal with it so that it may be a bit fairer, but one does not solve this basic problem. Mrs Minister, perhaps hearing Let me say once again to Mr Bernhard, yesterday's speech. He described yesterday in his speech how someone who has been in short-time work for a long time and how financially tense the situation in this budget is. We are not talking about people who are in short-term work losing 10 to 20 percent of their income, we are talking here about people who are in the context of unemployment benefits, often in difficult situations of life, because, for example, wage contributions are also available. And you haven't done one again. You have not excluded these once again from the pledge. That is, the people who really have the hardest hit it gets nothing again. That is our criticism of this point. Of course, we will agree because, of course, every single euro helps households and families, but that is not the help that people need. Follow a simple proposal that we have tabled: Increase unemployment benefit! I think that is the simplest, most unbureaucratic solution to help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19910	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e19931	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! On the one hand, our request concerns the extension of the special rules for self-employed persons and employees in part-time due to the cod crisis until 31. It shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. On the other hand, I also bring the amendment tabled by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues, on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, 459b. on the application 957/A concerning a federal law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977. What is this law about? – Already announced by Deputy Chancellor Kogler and Ms Labour Minister Aschbacher, the second increase in unemployment benefit was announced by the beginning of December 2020. This time again, there will be a payment of up to 450 euros, for each month 150 euros, from September to November. Because of the criticism that has come from the public prosecutor's office, we have, of course, also tried to involve those who are directly involved in sickness benefits from unemployment, unemployment benefits or emergency aid, so that they too can receive the corresponding support they urgently need. It is clear that unemployment dramatically reduces income, unemployment brings extreme situations, extreme hardness situations, which we want to at least partially offset and intercept with this proposal. It is essential to mention that people who are in the field of health care will receive the payment only in January, because the reporting of health insurance against the labour market service, how many people who come from the AMS, are actually currently in the field of health care, usually takes place in December. That is to say, this payment will take place in a timely manner. There is nothing for the ministry to do, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs can do nothing for it, it is simply due to the fact that the relevant information is always reported in retrospect. In this sense, I would ask you to agree to this request. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[18:12]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20078	The amendment was distributed to all Members, was also explained in the main guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20103	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have to fight with the highest unemployment rate since 1946. We know that unemployed people who are currently looking for jobs have no chance of getting a job, a new job. More than five people seeking work come to an open position. So you see, you can't figure this out. In addition, further waves of termination are threatening. The tragedy is that in seven out of ten people receiving unemployment benefits, unemployment benefit is below 1 000 euros. This is linked to the fact that in Austria we still have the net replacement rate of 55 percent. This makes us pretty much at the bottom of the scale internationally. On the other hand, it must be said that people who are mainly affected by unemployment have received an average salary of 500 euros rather than other workers. These effects of low unemployment benefit do not only feel the people concerned themselves, but all of us, because the unemployment benefit flows from people one to one in the economy, into consumption so that they can cover their basic needs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This means that stabilisation of consumption could also stabilise our economy. Therefore, we continue to call for the increase in the net replacement rate to 70 percent. This one-off payment, which should now be decided again, is no more than a drop on the hot stone. Although there is the rule that sick people should be involved, it is all very complicated. You could have made this much easier by giving all this one-time payment – and I must say that it is better to make a one-time payment than nothing for these people. I would also like to point out: In order to capture more workers, to bring more people into work, it would now be time for a general reduction in working time with full pay compensation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20145	Next speaker: Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20169	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I think that this amendment has succeeded, and I must say quite honestly – and I always hear from the entrepreneurs who are looking for skilled workers – that in principle unemployment is also faced with the shortage of skilled workers and open jobs. We keep fighting with the fact that we can't occupy jobs. This is a significant sum, currently reported to the AMS 65 000. Somehow this means that there would be more than 100 000 open jobs that cannot be occupied. At the net replacement rate of 55 percent: You know that there are a lot of things to do, extra, supplemental amount, family surcharges and so on, so that you can receive up to 80 percent in total. It is clear to us that this does not apply to everyone, but on average we speak of 64 percent. We will have to try everything to get people into employment. I think that's an incredibly important task. I also know from conversations with various employees of the AMS in Upper Austria that this is often very difficult because people get used to the situation. We also know this from short-time work – which is a great model to prevent higher unemployment, but finally we need to get the restart started again, and we need our employees to get them back to work. This difference should be absolutely given. That is, when I work, I'm supposed to earn more than I do in unemployment. If you compare this too much, then it will no longer pay off, because some have already, when I think about small employment in addition to unemployment benefit, as much as they go to work normally; and with that the motivation is often no longer given. I have to say quite honestly: These applications, which have been discussed very often in the committees – and especially the FPÖ’s request – have always been something that shocks me. You write: "The vast majority of these unemployed people have lost their jobs by means of the Federal Government's COVID19 measures." - That's not true. That's absolutely wrong. [[Abg. Smoking: That's right!]] - No, that's completely wrong. [[Abg. Singer: Sure!]] [[Abg. Smoking: Then you have a wrong economic policy...!]] Continue writing You still have: “To ensure this group of around 500,000 people a financial compensation for job destruction by the Federal Government’s COVID-19 measures [...]” First of all, the base is, you all know, even in good times, even in very good times we have an unemployment. We are now talking more about about about 80 000 unemployed in the comparison period, and that is not right here. Moreover, we and the government did not raise the Covid-19 crisis, which is a global crisis, an economic crisis. Please note that this is not a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20241	Mrs. Christine Aschbacher has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20262	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! On this already advanced afternoon, too, as Minister of Labour, Family and Youth, it is important for me to report on this central issue. In principle, I would like to say that, together with the employees of the Austrian labour market service, we always focus on this and give everything to get people into employment. This is the best way to combat poverty. Even now in the crisis, for example, we have been able to bring some 40 000 people back into employment since November. The labour market is therefore dynamic despite the serious situation, and there are also open spaces. Nevertheless, it is above all a concern to me that we are doing well and that we are supporting people where they need it, especially in times like this. That is why we have agreed to provide a coronabonus for people seeking work, namely in a staged form, in a further developed form; we have received many suggestions. All those people who are looking for 15 days of work in the period from September to the end of November receive 300 euros, all those who are looking for 30 days of work, 300 euros and all those who are looking for 45 days of work, 450 euros, and that, as Mr Koza mentioned earlier, whether they were already in unemployment or during the unemployment period. In this sense, we support well over 400 000 people with around 200 million euros planned for this purpose. This one-off payment is automatically transferred with unemployment benefit in December, all those looking for work. Technically, this is only possible later for all those who are infirm. But in this case too, it is certain that this one-off payment will be automatically transferred. You don't need to make a request, you don't need to call the AMS or write a message, but you can rely that this is transferred with the December money. It is important to me that, especially before Christmas, we support the many job seekers, many of whom have a family, but at the same time also give courage and confidence that we do everything we can to get them all back into employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20302	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. In this case too, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and proceed on the agenda. [[18:22:48]] 35. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion 986/A by Mr Tanja Graf, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Markus Koza, Petra Wimmer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Civil Code and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Contracts of Employment; and on motion 904/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a federal law amending the labour contract law adaptation law (460, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20357	We'll get to 35. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20384	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! The special care period now comes with legal entitlement for employees. That looks good at the first moment: When schools are officially closed, employees are entitled to be exempt from payment for four weeks, and the company can then recover from the Community of taxpayers. The whole thing is a little short for several reasons: On the one hand, these people are missing in the companies. It is not true that if parents consume this claim in the event of a school closure, it does not matter if they are not in the company longer. They would have done work there and they would be needed by the company, otherwise they would not have the employment contract. It is therefore a unilateral measure. But above all, one thing is: You, Mrs. Minister, have stated on demand that this can also be combined with short work. Now it can be good for someone to consider: Aha, short work! – I am now speaking of agreed special care time. This not only applies to closed school, but can also be agreed, so the employer and the employee can complete a business at the expense of third parties. So they can decide that someone else is now paying the salary for four weeks. Now they decide that someone is going home – in combination with short work. If you think a little bit about it, you can imagine how to optimize the model. Now perhaps one for 50 percent would have work, once zero and once 50, and then, by giving it short work for the special care period, he can even optimize it and bring it back to work on the other side. – Optimally, for abuse the perfect bridge you have created there at the expense of taxpayers. And, of course, it is also much easier for the government to close schools – that was the Sebastian Kurz’s original plan – if she can say: Don't get upset, you've got special care time! Don't get upset, you can go home paid anyway, we're closing the schools! So this proposal is actually the motorway built for closing the schools. The SPÖ, however, has happened that it has been pulled over the table, because the schools are not quite closed now, so the door is up, it is not in there, but you can go in and so it is not closed. And now that is what you actually wanted from the SPÖ, namely that people are entitled to paid exemption if the children have no education, not the case. Now the children have no teaching and the exemption claim does not work in the way you have imagined it! So: It was somehow dragged down, it was built the motorway for the school closures, but it was not intended for abuse. It's a third-party business. It's not thought-out, it's not a solution and it's very poorly prepared.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20429	Next speaker: Mrs Tanja Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20454	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! I have spoken on the three-party motion for a resolution here. However, please allow me to speak to Mr Leichtfried before I come to the request. Mr. Leichtfried, you have criticised this morning that night-time laws are coming into force only a year later. . I can remind you, Mr colleague, that it was your party that decided in 2017 to adapt the time limits for the workers to those of the employees overnight together with the FPÖ. And this part of the law is to come into force at 1.1.2021! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That was now three years, three years – without consideration and without speaking any word in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Your argument from this morning is totally unacceptable, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can mention one thing: Fortunately, on the sides of the social partners there are always reasonable negotiators who are willing to talk about solutions. And yes, Mr Leichtfried, especially Mr Koza, is one of those who contribute to solutions and also work for the trade union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] Now to the request: I am glad that today we can nevertheless make a joint request from the EIA, the SPÖ and the Greens, which were previously negotiated intensively by the social partners. We decide today that we will take our time and move the approximation of legal conditions between workers and employees by half a year. On the one hand, the burden on entrepreneurs by the economic impact of the corona epidemic, and on the other, we want to give the social partners the time to adapt the collective agreements in this area, because one of them must have happened by then: The competence of the social partners to conclude collective agreements has been cut down. We in Austria have always done well when reasonable social partners sit and negotiate with each other. I would also like to thank the social partners for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What comes out when social partners negotiate together is also seen in the special care period. This was also a very emotional issue on both sides at the beginning, but there was also a reasonable solution through practical discussions. I can quote them briefly: The special care period is increased from three weeks to four weeks, and for the first time there is a legal claim in the case of closure or division of schools or kindergartens. However, it is also important that the care in schools and kindergartens for children of those who go to work remains upright. The workers are, of course, paid their wages. At the same time, we have granted employers the right to receive a refund through the crisis management fund. Special care will be provided until the end of the school year, 9. July 2021, limited. As mentioned above, it is important to find common solutions and to maintain a co-operation between employers and workers. That is why I am bringing forward a motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Tanja Graf, Barbara Neßler, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the application 986/A concerning a federal law amending the General Civil Code and the Employment Contracts Act. What's this about? – With the amendment, we want to ensure that, in addition to the right to a special care period, it continues It should also be possible for companies providing their employees with special care time on a voluntary basis to receive a refund of the remuneration via the fund. I'm asking for your consent. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[18:31]] The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20621	The amendment was distributed to all Members, also explained in their broad outlines, and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20648	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! We already wanted to be safe for parents at the first lockdown insofar as they have a legal claim to the special care period. At that time it was three weeks, it's good that it's four weeks up to the end of the school. We don't know what else could happen. We are here, and we are also involved in the amendment that Mr Graf has just read. The social partners have negotiated this. I would just like to address the situation of parents and their children in a few sentences, because they need all their strength at the moment to cope with everyday life. If it was still clear in spring, because in the explanations, that a partial or complete closure of a school represents an official measure and can be offered care, this is not the case in the explanations. It can't be found again. Mrs Minister, you have always said that if a school is partially or completely closed, that is an administrative measure, then there should now be a new legal claim. We would only like – therefore a proposal for amendment as a proposal from our side – that this passage should be rewritten in the law so that something can be clarified and resolved about this confusion, which has generally ruled. I should therefore like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] It has recently been in the centre of discussion whether schools that switch to home schooling, to distance learning and continue to offer a care facility, are officially closed or not. In our opinion, yes, because in the explanations of the first law in spring it was inside, now it is missing. That is why we want to have it inside again so that it is clear that the current changeover to Distancelearning is also a partially official closure of schools, because the provision of support when closing a school does not harm. I believe that this legal certainty has earned parents, and therefore it would be good if we decided on this in the form of this amendment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that: Almost a third of the children of single parents do not have their own room at home, which very early have a lot of everyday work to do. That is, if distance learning is added to it, it cannot be agreed with the employer that special care time is used, and then needs to be learned with the children in the evening, then, I think, the children are the sufferers, and I want the parents to have legal certainty, which is now a school degree and what is not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20799	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Christian Ragger, you are next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20823	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mrs. Minister! I am allowed to mention, in the contract law, that you have tried very hard to raise the special care period to four weeks and also to maintain an independent claim. I am convinced that, in addition to the previous care situation, these four weeks are complementary as special care, and your ministry has made great efforts to implement this measure. Only what Mr Heinisch-Hosek has said now is really the wound, namely: How do I interpret it? And that's all bad. Now I can only report from my firm: My employees, assistants all have between two and three children, one of my lawyers even has a disabled child, and they ask me first: When do I get a special care time? Then, unfortunately, you have God's pass in the law – we are lawyers and we have a law firm – in which it is quite clear: As long as there are alternative child care options, it is not possible to grant this special care time. That's why I can only appeal to you: If you really want to do nails with heads and seriously want this special care period to be granted to workers, then you support this SPÖ request, for it is worthy of support that this interpretation is clarified. We have been in the Committee absolutely in favour of introducing this special care period for workers, but it has been said quite clearly and decisively: We need this legal claim with this clear interpretation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20856	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20883	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it should be noted that the special care period was negotiated by the social partners and adopted in the Committee by all parties, except NEOS, and for this I thank all those involved. The right to special care is clearly defined. It is then available when closures occur, for example in cluster formation, when a quarantine becomes necessary, in K1 persons, so if there is no alternative to care. It is true that the special care period is now four weeks, retroactive with the 1. ==References== It can be used until the end of the school year. I think it's important that we stress it again: The schools are not closed! That's just wrong. What you mean by closing down – and since I ask you to differentiate so that there is no uncertainty – is that no regular lessons are taking place, but there is a good deal of support and learning accompaniment. There are reports that it really works well in many schools. Of course, we would like a normal teaching, but we do not currently have a normal situation. We are in an exceptional situation and, yes, we all wish for it differently, but we cannot change anything about it, we are all in the crisis together. As far as the discussion with the legal claim is concerned: The alternative of closing the schools would have been, I think, profitable to no one. To emphasize it again: At the heart of the special care period, it is about that, if there is no other means of care, it can be used. The voluntary compatibility referred to is still possible, with full remuneration by the federal government. I think this is really a good solution and a relief for the parents. I have already received emails from works councils that have greatly praised the scheme, I think the regulation has really been good for both entrepreneurs and employees and is a win-win situation. Mr Loacker, I must point out to you that: There's something like an obligation to care. Children are not pot plants that I now put in the corner and sometimes pour, that must be said already! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Summary: These two models are an enormous improvement and also carry far beyond the lockdown. I think we really do not have to put this regulation, this social partnership agreement here today. With this important instrument, we can support parents well in the challenging months, and I thank all those who have worked constructively on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20935	The Federal Minister has now made a statement. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20956	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! [[the voice of the speaker – which is hardly to be heard at the beginning – suddenly sounds very loud by the sound system]] – I have the greeting for the second time, so to speak -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20983	We have a technical problem – it is not because I refuse the micro. We'll try it again.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e20998	I would not have come to this idea, Madam President. In so far as: Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Our families are the backbone of our society, our base, and this year, the year 2020, we have certainly presented ourselves differently with regard to our family life. It's based on abandonment, it's based on endurance and it's based on physical distance – and yet we all keep together, no matter what age, no matter in which constellation of the family, and no matter what composition. We can be proud of this, and as your family minister, I can express my personal thanks for it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But today is also a special day. We have heard it several times, and of course it is also important for me to mention briefly that today is the birthday of children's rights. When we celebrate birthdays with our children, we know that this is always very special, that everyone is already excited – the children ask: how often do we sleep?, and so on – and we can be proud that we not only read and have children's rights, but that we make them alive and implement them. - That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervening calls from Members of the port and smoke.]] [[Call the FPÖ: So be holy!]] In addition to the numerous support measures that we provide to families in particular during this year – I do not want to list all of them now, many of them have been mentioned today – it is also known at the municipal billions, for example, that the communities invest about 40 percent in childcare facilities, so that we enable sustainable investments for our families. [[Abg. Belakovich: Then lock them up!]] Also by adapting the income-dependent childcare allowance for self-employed people – including thanks for the encouragement from the various opposition parties – but also for all employees who will be a young family next year, we provide funds and ensure that there is no financial loss. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Which employees?]] However, it is also about ensuring that the maintenance advance is still guaranteed and no one has to tremble whether it is now provided in this financial situation: Yes, we will continue to secure the maintenance advance. Nevertheless – and I am very well aware of this, both as a threefold mother and as a result of numerous conversations with many families – compatibility is now more than a balance act. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why?]] We have agreed to the special care period and are fortunately there with the social partners in an exchange, which is very constructive, also in this respect. In principle, in the current situation of the lockdown, the schools are open, care is ensured and on-site learning support is given in the familiar environment – which is also the difference to the lockdown in spring. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] It is important, however, that for all those situations where care is not ensured in the familiar environment, that is if there are individual school closures or even punctual child group closures, because perhaps the educators themselves are suffering from the virus and therefore the children are sent home in quarantine – the special care period is guaranteed with a legal claim. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker]] The families of our country, the working parents can rely that the special care period is valid with a legal claim, and at the same time it is possible at any time, according to agreement between working parents, employees, and the employer, that they can use it in a flexible way up to four weeks, namely also single days, individual half-days, and at the same time, the employer also receives a 100% refund instead of 50 percent. [[Abg. Smoking: This is a sulfur of the same!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you understand what you're talking about?]] It is important that it is valid for all working parents if they have dependent children, i.e. children up to 14 years old, but also for someone who is responsible for a person with disabilities, namely, age-independent, or even in the family caregivers and the caregiver may have failed. It is important that we continue to make this available in the proven model, as well as in recent months. I would like to thank the social partners once again for the constructive negotiations in order to get everything in one's hands. Getting as good as possible through this challenging time is now important. At the same time, our families are the place of love and security, and we all want the best for our children, always and everywhere. [[Abg. Belakovich: Just lock her away!]] Accordingly, I would like to thank you once again for maintaining cohesion and for being together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21144	Next speaker: Mrs Maria Smodics-Neumann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21166	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! The entry into force of the approximation of workers and employees, a provision adopted in 2017, will now become 30. ==References== Many thanks to all those who have worked to achieve this, because this would mean hidden additional wage costs of about 140 million euros for entrepreneurs, and this would, of course, be an additional major obstacle especially in the now tense period. [[Abg. Smoking: Thank you, thank you, thank you!]] Thank you so much – it is an important measure that is being taken with it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A short sentence also from my side at special care time: I think it is quite, very important that there is a legal claim – in case there is no agreement between employers and employees. However, living practice is really such that employers and employees do so very often in agreement. Now we have tabled two proposals or proposals here, and I am quite right to give Mr Loacker, of course I need the employee in the company, and Mr Ragger's proposal is, as it were, the other side. The possibility of agreeing on special care time between employers and employees, and the provision that these costs will also be replaced, I believe, is a very good mean of these two demands, which also reflect reality – because only together do we move forward in the company, only flexiblely we move forward in the company. That is, I think, also a very important story. Thank you very much, Mrs Bundesminister, for being as flexible as possible. This has always been excellent for us in our small-scale economy, that we are flexible, and especially in unpredictable times we come out of this only if we can really react flexibly to it. Since this is also the case with our children, I would like to make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hamann and Mr Neßler on his work.]] [[18:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21294	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21322	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Yeah, it's a good news for the families. The right to special care time is implemented retroactively with 1.11.2020 and enables parents in Austria to better cope with the challenges of the Corona crisis. Many families have spent their holidays, have already used the care exemption and are under enormous pressure. There is a constant risk that your own child will have to be isolated because of illness or suspicion of infection, and parents will have to monitor their children from today to tomorrow. In this respect, the special care period is clearly regulated and very helpful. Less helpful was misleading communication ahead of the current lockdown. Parents have been informed differently whether to leave their children at home: Please only bring the children if you are in an emergency, only if you work in a system-related profession, if you do not even make it any more if you are overwhelmed! The schools are closed, the schools are not closed, Distancelearning is taking place and there is only one supervision in the school. – With such different messages, this can only lead to confusion, both in families and in schools. The fact that this constellation – the school remains open, it takes care, but no lessons – does not apply to the right to special care time was also not clear to many. Now there is the opportunity to negotiate with the employer, and in agreement you can take advantage of the special care period. Again, parents are responsible to regulate this, but there is a good news: Our criticism has been taken up in this case, and now the law also states that employers receive a 100% salary for this time. That is good and right, so that you have legal certainty in this regard too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, the families live in the special field of tension, a good mother, a good father, a good worker, a good employee, to be a good employee, to enable children the best education and also to protect the health of the family. Finally, all the measures taken in this crisis, the families, the parents, the children, take. Single rules, clear communication and timely information would be the most urgent wishes of families. As SPÖ, since the beginning of the health crisis, we have demanded the right to special care time and are very happy for the families that they will decide today. From our point of view, however, the legal special care period should also be carried if, during the Covid crisis, the schools are open, but no regular teaching takes place. My colleague Gabi Heinisch-Hosek has already submitted a request for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21367	The next speaker was Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21388	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Federal Minister! Estimated Federal Minister! High house! Well, our position regarding entitlement to special care time has been clear since March: In the case of a pandemic, we want Austrians to have a legal claim that they can fulfil their care obligations at home. We want this to be the case with childcare, we want this to be the case in the case of the caregivers and the disabled, and in contrast to many in this House, we also want those who are seriously ill and living in a common household to be included in this claim. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not want these persons to become bitters, we want them to become right-holders, and there we partly distinguish ourselves from the ÖAAB, the employees' wing of the ÖVP, which partly does not run a zigzag, but a zigzag course when it comes to what legal claims are to be given. I refer to the already said school, I also point out that those in the trade, health care and care sectors who are the so-called system holders really have to insist on agreement with their employer and have no legal claim, and I also refer to the local officials who are not covered by this solution. We are concerned with legal certainty and legal peace; it seems that this is not about the others. I would like to stress that social peace must continue in this unclear arrangement and in the confusion, which is partly due to the zigzag theme, as the employer's wing is likely to prevail over the employee's wing in the ÖVP, so that in the area of social peace, speaking in court cases, it is likely that one or another needs to be clarified. We don't want that; others seem to want it. The third point: The severely ill people who are at home are suffering, and it is unclear for me why not all the parties in this House are trying to regulate this right to special care time for these too. These are cancer sufferers, the disabled people who are waiting at home to work in the family – and in the final effect there is a risk of having to decide between the task of the service relationship and the risk of being infected by these patients. We don't want that! We do not want to abandon these groups and their members, so I also propose a resolution which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, everyone can prove whether they want to abandon this group. I also call on ÖAAB, including Klubobmann Wöginger and also Mr Zarits, to prove whether they are representing employees or whether they in turn allow employers to gain the upper hand. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21510	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I put the vote on this request to the conclusion of all the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[18:56:36]] Vote on agenda items 26 to 35
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21541	We would now come to the votes. I ask the political groups if we can proceed immediately. - Then I'll go like that. We shall proceed to the vote on Agenda item 26: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 451 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. Agenda item 27: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 452 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 28: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 453 of the supplements. Who's for taking note? - That's the majority. Vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 454 of the supplements. Who's for taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 30: Draft concerning the Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and other laws, 455 of the Supplements. There is a general amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Maurer, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I shall be able to vote on the overall amendment just mentioned, taking into account the request for a name or separate vote on the legislative text's classification. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 C 1 of the amendment as a whole. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the natural vote on the motion for a resolution. 1 Z 2 of the amendment as a whole. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members. If you're for art. 1 Z 2 vote in favour of the amendment as a whole, then use the 'Yes' vote, if you are against, the 'No' vote, and I also ask you to make sure that you only take one vote. I now ask the scribe, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21685	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. For this purpose, the session will be suspended for a few minutes. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21724	I take up the interrupted session again and may ask you to take the places. I can announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 169; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 105, No votes: 64. So Art. 1 Z 2 of the amendment as a whole. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Baumgartner, Berlakovich Nikolaus, Bernhard, Blimlinger, Brandstötter Henrike, Brandweiner, Bürstmayr; Deckenbacher, Diesner-Wais, Disoski, Double Bauer; El-Nagashi, Engelberg, Ernst-Dziedzic, Eypeltauer; Fever, fisherman, förlinger; Gahr, Gerstl, Gödl, Götze, Count Tanja, Grebia, Great Farmer, Grünberg; Hamann Sibylle, Hammer Lukas, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechenberger, Himmelbauer, Hintner, Höfinger Johann, Hofinger Manfred, Hörl, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli; Kaufmann, Kirchbaumer, Koza, Krisper, Kugler Gudrun, Kühberger, Künsberg Sarre; Lindinger, Litschauer, Loacker, Lopatka; Mahrer, Marchetti, Margreiter, Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Melchior, Minnich; Neßler, Neumann-Hartberger, Niss Maria Theresia; Obernosterer, Ofenauer Friedrich, Ottenschlager; Pfurtscheller, Plakolm, Pöttinger, Prammer, Prince; Reimon, Reiter, Rössler; Salzmann, Saxinger, Scharzenberger, Scherak, Scheucher-Pichler, Schnabel, Schmiedhofer, Schmijdenschlager, Schwarz Gabriela, Schwarz Jakob, Shetty, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Smodics-Neumann, Smolle, Sobotka, Stammler, Stark, Steinacker, Stocker, Stögmüller, Strasser; Tanda, Tashner, Totter; Voglar; Weber, Weidinger, Weratschnig, Wöginger; Zarits Christoph, Zopf. Members voted with ‘No’: Amesbauer, Angerer; Bayr, cup, Belakovich Dagmar, Brückl, Bures; Deimek, Drobits, Drozda; Ecker Cornelia, Ecker Rosa, Einwallner; Fuchs; Count Martin, Greiner Karin; Hafenecker, Hammerschmid, Hauser, Heinisch-Hosek, Herr, Hofer, Holzleitner; Kainz, Kassinger, Keck, Kickl, Köllner, Kollross, Krainer Kai Jan, Kucharovich, Kucher Philip, Kuntzl; Laimer, Lausch, Leichtfried, Lercher; Matznetter, Mühlberghuber; walnut; Oberrauner Petra; Ragger, Rauch, Tireberger, Rendi-Wagner, Ries Christian; Honey, blacksmith, Schnedlitz, Schroll, Seemayer, Silvan, Stefan, Steger Petra, Stöger Alois, Strache; By; Vogl, front winkler; Wicker Petra, Wimmer Rainer, Worm; Yılmaz; Singer Wolfgang.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e21915	We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 5 to 10 and 12 to 14, Art. 2 Z 1 to 3, 5 and 7, Art. 3 Z 1 to 3, 5 and 7 as well as Articles 4 and 5 of the amendments as a whole. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the overall amendment, including title and receipt. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 31: Request by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, its report 456 of the Supplements - - - One moment, please. [[Abg. Wöginger: Is there not a motion for a resolution, Mr President?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Romana Deckenbacher, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues on early starter bonus. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. [[115/E]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on agenda item 31: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 456 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 457 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 33: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 458 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 34: Draft Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act in 459 of the Supplements. Hiezu have MEPs Wöginger, Mag. Mr Koza, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Wöginger, Mag. Koza, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment amendment concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 2 and 3 as well as the resulting renumbering of the subsequent figures and amending the new point 5. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on agenda item 35: Draft federal law, which amends the General Civil Code and the Employment Contracts Act, into 460 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Neßler, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Hosek, and a request for a separate vote. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to or the request for separate vote in accordance with the classification of the draft law and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 2 Z 1 inserted. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Neßler, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr President, and colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 2 and the resulting renumbering of the following figures and amending the new paragraph 4 respectively in Article 2. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Barbara Neßler, Mr Norbert Sieber, colleagues on the implementation of a child cost survey. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. [[116/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the request for special care time for members of the disabled. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:23:12]] 36. Point Report of the Committee on Consumer Protection on the Government Template (409 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act, the Telecommunications Act 2003 and the Competition Act (450 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22056	We'll get to 36. Agenda item. Before we continue, ladies and gentlemen, I have to interrupt the sitting for a stand-in-law. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22091	I'll start the interrupted session again. We're now going to 36. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Ing. Markus Vogl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22130	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! High house! Consumer Authority Cooperation Act is a bulky name. What's this about? – The cooperation of the individual consumer authorities at European level should be better regulated. This law was already under review at the beginning of January – and then there was nothing more. The summer came, the fall came with the first consumer committee appointment, and the law was not on the agenda. But then it became sad all at once, then we got it in; we set a time limit to bring this law to Parliament completely in squat. We then decided to hold a committee meeting in the short term to discuss this law. I believe that the opposition side will be summarized once again by the essential criticism. I am referring to an essential, massive point: There is a Federal Competition Authority in Austria. I think a competition authority, as the name says, should be able to act wisely, i.e. it should be able to do its work unimpeded by politics. That will no longer exist with this new law in the future. What I really regret is that the Greens agree with this solution. Of course, compromises must always be made in a coalition, but I do not understand why it is precisely on this important subject of control, in which the freedom of guidance of an authority closes this compromise. Unfortunately, God’s attitude is in a number of points of thoughtful vote. If the Consumer Protection Section is dissolved in the Ministry of Health and integrated into a larger section, all those who have worked in larger companies know: In the moment the quality department is hidden somewhere far below, you can write about it five times: Quality is important to us!, it will not be as important as if the quality department can act independently. The same is true of consumer protection. Nevertheless, I hope that we will continue in the future, but in the structure it will be quite, very difficult.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22170	Mag.a. Ulrike Fischer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22194	Is there any slight cost at the end of this sitting? – Unfortunately, no! Consumer Authority Cooperation Act, Consumer Authority Cooperation Regulation are bulky terms, and implementation is apparently difficult. It was already adopted by the EU in 2017, and we implemented a corresponding regulation in Austria at the beginning of this year. Well, it could be believed that the seven consumer authorities work together, exchange cross-border, if there is fraud on the Internet, if there are any sites on the Internet to be blocked because fraud is committed because there is child pornography because there are simply serious violations of law in Europe. It would have to be assumed that the authorities could work. However, we should no longer allow ourselves to finally use the competent authorities. There is a draft law for this, and we should now decide quickly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to adapt to national law, it is necessary that we use the competent authorities, because the bitter consequence is that the exchange of experience at the Austrian border is currently halting. Austria cannot currently apply for assistance to the cross-border authorities, which is simply on the track. What does it have to do? . We must adopt this law quickly. With this reform, we have seven new areas of application. The lamp at the speaker's desk flashes, that's good, too, because so much more is not to be said again than that there is a need for rapid implementation and that law enforcement, legal protection, protection against Internet charges at the state border do not stop Let's go. We need to work for strong common consumer protection throughout Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22245	The next speaker is Mr Christian Ries. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22270	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Consumer Protection Committee is generally not a committee in which great ideological graves must be overcome. This time it was a bit different, we were not quite one in the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act, because in our opinion, in some cases, there is a loss of quality in consumer protection. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not only what we claim to be an opposition, but also the opinion of the Bar, the VKI and the Federal Competition Authority. For example, parts of the competence in consumer protection, such as handling misleading business practices and shortcomings in package travel, are provided by the non-profit-making Federal Competition Authority to the naturally assigned department of the Ministry of Digitalisation and Business Location. As we think, this fact alone is a step back. No one can assume that the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying of this task has grown better than the Federal Competition Authority. What does it say on the website of the Federal Office for Eich- und Vermeichungswesen? – “The BEV is a Federal Authority subordinated to the Federal Ministry for Digitalisation and Economic Location with the areas of measurement and geoinformation and measurement and equivalency.” There's nothing in there about consumer protection. Why so? – The ladies and gentlemen there are not trained and, of course, have no expertise. We therefore lack the objective justification for this transition of competence. Of course, there is an explanation for everything. You just have to ask yourself: Why? Who's using it? Cui bono? Independent officials will be replaced by assigned staff of a ministry. For us, the conflict of interest is predetermined. What is to be thought if, after 13 years of successful activity, the Federal Competition Authority is replaced by another, ignorant authority? Where's the logic? I mean, Is anyone of us going to the baker because of a haircut – that's comparable? – That’s just not right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who would like to see the company only during the opening hours and if it's nice and the on-site information sharing? Consumer protection or companies? The power for test purchases, if necessary incognito, falls completely. They're already wondering: Who wants to stop this instrument, and why? Mr. Federal Minister, we are already faced with the legitimate suspicion that the company and not the consumer are under attack. The whole thing behind the title to hide consumer protection is really a bit sluggish and smells a little after economic union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22316	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter Weidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22340	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians and all the people who live here! The best form of consumer protection at this time is to ensure that people's health is respected and therefore comply with all regulations so that we can get through this crisis well. [[Abg. Smoking: By controlling everyone how you do this?- Oh, my God!]] The second best form of consumer protection is that we ensure jobs, that we support businesses, and that we also maintain purchasing power in the Republic. [[Abg. Smoking: How can you talk such a nonsense?- Oh, my God!]] A key issue, ladies and gentlemen, will be dealt with in this draft law, as it is now before us. [[Call at the FPÖ:The main cause of turquoise is the tie!]] It is about the Consumer Authority Cooperation Regulation, which is the basis of the European Union and which aims to strengthen the networking of the competent authorities in Austria with our neighbouring countries within Europe in order to be able to act quickly and quickly in the field of official assistance. I would also like to expressly note that, by anchoring this Regulation into Austrian law, there is also a division of powers which is free from any Member State of the EU. Therefore, it is not a question of the question of whether this authority, that body must be independent or independent of direction. There are many European examples of authorities that are either one or the other, which do not affect the quality of decisions made. This Regulation also extends the scope for consumer protection. There are further minimum powers, and a legal framework for enforcement activities will also be established for the first time, including coordinated actions as such. As far as my previous speaker Mr Ries is concerned, it is essential to note that there is no need here for the competition authority to be deprived of new powers, because it is not going to take away something that was not there before. I am thinking, in particular, of the Services Directive, the Geoblocking Regulation and also of air transport services. [[Abg. Smoking: You complete the competition authority!]] I would also like to thank you very much for the commitment of the employees in the Federal Office for Eich- und Vereichungswesen. I do not think that it is justified to say that the people who work there – it is about 1,000 employees – are unable to vote in favour of these additional new tasks. To the address of the SPÖ, which always very much tries to put himself in the foreground in the issue of consumer protection, I would like to expressly note the following – I do so very rarely, but at this point it is quite appropriate, I would like to quote Mr Leichtfried, who is very quickly with the statement on the increase of parliamentarianism; I would not go that far, but you should clarify this in your group –: It does not make sense for you, if we have a committee meeting, to come only to three instead of five mandates to deal with the subject matter in terms of content. You then come to the plenary, take the floor, but refuse the broad discussion in the committee. [[Abg. Smoke: Weak speech, colleague!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: This is a necessary legal step in order to establish better cooperation in the field of consumer and consumer protection. Mr Ulli Fischer has also explained the seriousness of the issues that are being dealt with here. And that is why I would ask you to support this request, also in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22431	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Felix Eypeltauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22455	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Mrs. Minister! Today, the Federal Competition Authority has applied for the first fines in the largest cartel scandal in the Republic. These are at least 1,500 cases involving massive public damage caused by construction companies, construction companies that have agreed to do so. I would like to thank the BWB for this. She's doing her job well. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Fischer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are professionals. This is a wise, powerful team of experts, experts protecting fair competition, protecting those entrepreneurs, those companies that comply with the rules, and protecting consumers. They fight cross-border corruption of companies and corporations, they are reliable point of contact for Whistleblowers, they work with detonators at organized price agreements and can make house searches for it, can look into hard drives, can look into the clouds of companies. They are therefore very close to all that is essential for cross-border consumer cooperation and consumer protection. They have built up this expertise they have for years and also the experts for building up the staff for it over years. The ÖVP will document today, ladies and gentlemen, how it wants to bring this authority together with these professionals, in cooperation with the Greens. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Smoking.]] I've been telling you what the BWB is doing. – Then there is the squirrel and survey office. The Eich- und Vereichungsamt also fulfils an important task in our Republic. In contrast to the BWB, it is binding. For example, it checks and calibrates measuring instruments, it leads the property shader, it creates official maps et cetera. I don't think anyone wants to give up on the Eich- und Vermeichungsamt, too. I would also like to express my true respect to the employees of this office and tell them that I consider what they do important. But, ladies and gentlemen, how to do everything in the world is the idea of moving the tasks that I have described to you before, first, to the latter authority? There is no objective reason, not one. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] For this reason, we, the opposition, have led a meeting of the Consumer Protection Committee – well, that it was still somehow successful – and have given the government fractions the opportunity to argue why that must be. There has not been a single factual argument, and my previous speaker, Mr Weidinger, did not come up with a single objective argument, but only polemics. Ladies and gentlemen! After your performance, dear ÖVP, will the Eichoffer go to the Group headquarters with the customs stock at some point and want to do house searches there? Is that what you're serious about? This is not how competition and consumer protection works! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Smoking.]] What is particularly disturbing to me – and I believe, not just me, and that is why it is important to talk about it over and over again – is the threat with which you are an unloving, because wisdom-free and always obstinate authorities are collaborating, for no objective reason, as has already been said. Whatever surprises me, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, is that I have really happened: If we had not discussed this in committee, you might not have noticed what is going to happen. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's really brutal. That's really brutal what's going on. You were pulled over the table again. This is today, I think, the tenth time someone here explains to you objectively why you were pulled over the table. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we, in other words, all the opposition, are giving you today the last chance to turn away from competition and consumer protection. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[19:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22683	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore also under negotiation. Mag.a Corinna Scharzenberger is now speaking. - Here you go, Mrs Magistra.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22710	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! So that which my previous speakers there sometimes understand by defining authority responsibilities or what conclusions they draw from it is – how to say? – very adventurous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Let's get back to the bottom of the facts! Especially in a free trade union, it is important for consumers to be able to enforce their right everywhere. In order to make this possible, the EU has adopted the so-called Consumer Authority Cooperation Regulation. [[Abg. Smoking: Did you read the text with meaning?]] This is intended to enable the rapid removal of cross-border infringements of EU consumer rights. The regulation applies directly in each Member State, but it is necessary to introduce additional national implementing legislation, and that is why we are here and we are discussing here today in the House. The aim is to regulate and strengthen cooperation between the authorities in each Member State. This Regulation defines very clear criteria that an authority must fulfil in order to be eligible for these tasks. Mr Eypeltauer, on the subject: If you don't understand something, it's not as absurd as you call it. You could theoretically also find out. [[Abg. Shetty: So embarrassing!]] [[Further call to the NEOS.]] If you had done so, you would know that the Federal Office for Eich- und Vereichungswesen fulfils the necessary criteria quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Who wrote you the speech?]] I would like to know how the employees of the BEV, i.e. from the Federal Office for Eich- und Versatungswesen, come to be presented by you as follows – I quote –: a fully incompetent authority that has no expertise in the field of consumer protection. [[Abg. Eypeltauer: For this task!]] – The BEV is very likely to have a high level of competence in the field of consumer protection. It is also already fulfilling such tasks, namely tasks aimed at fair competition in the economy, and also tasks relating to consumer protection and consumer interests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] These tasks are now to be added. These include the areas of awarding prices, misleading advertising, including incorrect marking, as well as the fight against geoblocking. Furthermore, it is not about the enforcement of antitrust law, but about the implementation of different consumer law instruments. [[Abg. Eypeltauer: That's not what anyone says!]] Therefore, these tasks can be fulfilled by the BEV as well as by the BWB. Moreover, without these additional tasks, the Federal Competition Authority can focus much better on its core areas. Thirdly, Finally, I would like to say that I have full confidence in all the authorities and their employees entrusted with this matter and I am sure that the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying will also do the best to carry out the tasks assigned to it. [[Abg. Smoking: Trust is good, control is better!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22843	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Christian Drobits. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22867	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Federal Minister! The importance of consumer protection across the borders of the European Union has already been heard. I think this is an important appreciation of the activity. What happens in Austria is not an appreciation of consumer protection. Mr Weidinger, I have been in the Consumer Protection Committee for over a year now, and I have not experienced any requests from your party, but delays in some areas. This point would not be on today's agenda if we would not have wanted a special committee meeting. So that's all wrong. I therefore also believe that something is happening in this area, which is not supposed to happen: That's where power abuse happens. The BEV, the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying, is a good place in the field of geodynamics, surveying, traffic steering, space, landscape and so on, but this has nothing to do with consumer protection. The Federal Competition Authority, on the other hand, has been equipped with professional competence since 2002, it is very important for the organization and authority that is taking action against unfair competition and is therefore also very important in consumer protection. No one can explain to me to this day why this authority is no longer in this legislative text. I can only suspect, and that's a presumption: The Federal Competition Authority has delivered an opinion on the original legislative text, and in this opinion it states that the newly competent Federal Ministry of Digitalisation and Economic Location may not be responsible as a Consumer Protection Authority, just as the VKI has said and just as the Bar Association has said. I hope not, Minister of State, that the VKI is the next place to leave. I think it's very important to mention that, but I hope that's not the reason. The second reason: They have carried out a control activity which they have made point-free. If that is the reason, because they are no longer responsible for their freedom of guidance and we are losing professional competence, it is, I believe, an increase of all consumers in Austria. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] Mr Federal Minister, with all appreciation: They say consumer protection will be extended next year. I think you're going with full gas and dressed hand brake. Don't put on the brake yourself, you'll be attracted to it. I mean, this present-day example already shows that you really are not able to make these decisions. I think only Horaz – you are not a colleague of flowers, who probably knows better in these areas – says Horaz: “The mountain cried and bore a mouse”. – This does not mean that the BEV would be bad now, but in the final effect it is the wrong authority in the wrong place. That's not our intention, and we won't carry that either.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22919	The next speaker is Mr Walter Rauch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22943	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! That is the word: the wrong authority in the wrong place, or what to call it, Mr Federal Minister, because what have you done or what do the two government parties, one you belong to, in the final effect? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] – You take the freedom of guidance from a non-wisdom authority and place it under the guise of a ministry in which the officials who are employees are assigned. That's where you make the bock a gardener. They make the bock a gardener, who can then also control and intervene accordingly. The loss of quality in this area is the decisive one – you are talking about me, Federal Minister – that loss of quality that you are introducing to this authority is a lasting damage to consumer protection. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, where is your ideology, where is your most intimate thing, what you, your predecessor here in Parliament, had years ago? You're all looking at your phones and files, that's all right and beautiful, but you've lost the need to protect the consumer you've always wanted to protect, now even more. You gave up! Ladies and gentlemen, I just have a recent press release, from today, by the Director-General of the Federal Competition Authority Theodor Thanner in front of me. He writes that in four companies which he examined from 2002 to 2017, there were illegal price agreements, ladies and gentlemen. In order to do so, it was necessary to be pointless, and you are taking this step with this authority exactly this freedom of guidance. That is disgusting and harmful. You're doing it here! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] Finally, the question must always be: Who's using this? Who's using this act? – Certainly not to the consumer, I don't think the greens have much to do with it. The opposition parties will not vote, then I have to look into the sector of the ÖVP, because that is the only party, the donor party we have here in Austria who uses it. That's the disgusting thing you're doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e22992	Mr Anschober spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23014	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Eypeltauer – he was here right now; ah, over there he is –, colleague Vogl, colleague Drobits, I estimate you out of many debates and I already understand that criticism is being practiced at this one point. The one thing we basically agree with is the fact that we have a great appreciation of the Federal Competition Authority – you have correctly formulated it from my personal point of view – that has always done a very, very good, correct and offensive work, no question at all. But let's start with the whole thing. What is this law about? – It is a very important development, so to speak, of the gap between Austrian consumer protection policy and the European consumer protection network. [[Abg. Smoking: Minister, lock up the schools!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] - Please? - Okay, I don't know what the background of this call is. [[Call the FPÖ: Lock the schools!]] Now I'm a little overwhelmed, I can't follow that intellectually now, I have the impression ; or for some other reason, I don't know. [[Abg. Belakovich: Oh, you!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: applause at the ÖVP, when you say...!]] Let us return to the law which is obviously very important to the opposition, which is why we want to remain serious and have an objective, serious debate. We have a globalisation of the economy, we have absolutely internationalisation in various areas of fraud, and that is why we also need the further development of consumer protection beyond the national level towards European cooperation – what we now have with this step. This is a step that has been negotiated for three years, which has not been implemented for three years. I am wondering and wondering how self-confident the FPÖ colleagues are sitting here today, because they themselves have prevented something from going further in this area for too long. You have completed this law in your jurisdiction in the then Federal Government, nothing has gone on. [[Abg. Smoking: The Competition Authority...!]] I'll tell you: Every single month without cooperation with the Europe-wide network is a lost month. That's how it looks! It is precisely this procedure that this law will greatly strengthen Austrian consumer protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] Anyone who has to deal with the law only a little bit, does not reduce the debate to a piece, namely, the question of the Federal Competition Authority or the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying?, because this reduces the subject matter to a much too small, narrow point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Abg. Deimek: You extend the debate...!]] We have seven competent authorities or bodies which provide assistance with a responsibility. My house – I have great confidence – has the entire logistics – apologies! – the entire legal system and is the central liaison body in this context, so has the lead. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] All seven nominate offices responsible for this field of execution, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs has nominated this Federal Office – yes, that's it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] You can now react with two approaches: either with an advance of distrust, which you obviously realize, or with a advance of confidence. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Deimek.]] I have already said in committee that I think that there will be good control of the opposition, it will control exactly what you are now criticizing, whether it is a matter of guidance or not. I am convinced that with good control it fits well, that this can work well and that we are developing in this sense. I definitely think it makes sense to see the progress of the entire law, the whole process. We know that by doing so, we are putting in place the enforcement of law, through the conflagrations and thus through the VKI. My previous impression is that at least to the Consumer Information Association, all political groups have real confidence, and this VKI will be able to carry out the conflagrations. That is, in sum – and I think you agree with me – the law brings progress. You criticise a partial aspect, you can talk about it, I agree, but the overall work here for the vote is a step forward, namely towards European integration and European networks. I would like to thank you for your broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23170	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we vote, I ask again the question to the clubs whether an interruption is desired. - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 409 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Eypeltauer, Ing. Vogl, Worm, colleagues and others tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Eypeltauer, Ing. Vogl, Worm, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Articles 1 and 3. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:01:59]] 37. Point Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (411 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (39. KFG-Novelle (418 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23247	We now reach 37. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Alois Stöger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23276	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll take it short: This novelle contains a few topics that we would certainly support: that the command vehicles of the fire brigade have a blue light is a matter of course; that the cooling trucks should be attached to power terminals, we also support. However, we are opposed to increasing the ton limit on wood: 44 tonnes of wood transport we do not want to accept, we do not keep our roads, nor do the mayors have any money. That's why we're going to reject the novels. I would also like to say something about the next item on the agenda: The question is whether we want to strengthen the bicycle infrastructure. – We will apply for both the Committee’s proposal and the application in accordance with § 27 para. 3 GOG to give its approval. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23304	The next speaker is Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23328	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house! Mr Stöger does not want 44 tonnes on the streets. - Our streets can't stop that! It is also very important for the forest economy that hacks can now be transported out of the forest and not take several ways – so that not at first hit, then passed on to the processing and then it returns to the transporter. Now that's going to be a way, and that's a real thing from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Stöger also mentioned the commanding vehicles: In the future, fire brigades and telecommunications authorities will also be allowed to drive blue light. Furthermore, working machines with a maximum design speed of 10 km/h may be operated in the future even without a steering position. For me personally, it is also very important that now loads of trucks, which need to be cooled, must be cooled on the rest stations using existing power terminals, but only then – and that is correctly clarified in the law now – if they are available on site, secured and free. This is very important to me as an economic operator, and as a government we also have the task of ensuring that these terminals are expanded across the board. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23370	Mr Christian Hafenecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23392	Mr President. Good evening, Mrs. Federal Minister – we see each other almost every day! I would like to congratulate you very warmly on this template, because it is a historical template: It is the first template you have made after nearly a year. You have been able to take advantage of a FPÖ initiative, and if you need any help in the future, we are of course at our disposal. Just one more tip: Now you should not think of any government documents, but think about what you want to do next year in the street area, because this year is about to end. Perhaps there will soon be a federal road development plan. Back to the topic 39. KFG-Novelle, which includes two essential things – the colleague has just said it – on the one hand, the extension of the 44-ton rule not only for roundwood transports, but also for vehicles that transport wood that is already processed in the forest. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This is, of course, an important measure and a response to the current situation, especially in the light of the problem of bowwood. The second essential point, which has already been mentioned, is the change in the blue light regulation with regard to the fire brigade. In the future, the blue light will not need to be applied for for for command and team vehicles and can therefore be saved ways and time. So I think that this too is a reasonable and sensible arrangement, which we now thanked God with our request. In conclusion, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the many volunteers in Austria for their efforts, especially now, in such difficult times as this. This commitment is not self-evident, so I am all the more pleased that, as a Parliament, we are now bringing about at least a small relief for the fire brigades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23428	Mr Hermann Weratschnig is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23450	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this power driving law novelle, we can present important, contemporary, necessary adaptations that are being decided today. In short, to the remarks made by Member State: The statement on the transports has not been quite correct. It is not a question of increasing the tonage of the round wood transports, which already exists, but it is about nothing but that round wood, which is transported from the forest, can in the future be transported with fug and right also in the form of hacks – hacks, which we also need for the energy transition. This is not an increase in the tonnage limit. The second point – I think, a very important point, it was discussed a lot about it – concerns the fire brigades. I think it is a very important step to debureaucratize there so that the team and command vehicles of the firearms – across Austria there are over 4,800 fire brigades with over 255 000 active ones – can lead the blue light without any associated bureaucracy. Another important step is that vehicles up to 10 km/h can be operated by remote control even without steering space. I believe that this is a very important point for the further development of autonomous driving. It has also been mentioned – an equally important point – that in the case of existing power terminals on stops these should also be used accordingly. We can thus say that even on resting sites more electric mobility and less use of combustion engines – a very important point. And another important point is that the use of laser and radar blockers should also be a criminal offence in the future. There are even smaller adaptations and changes, which is why I would like to make another amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Johann Weber, Hermann Weratschnig, colleagues on agenda item 37: Transport Committee Report on the Government Template (411 of Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (39. KFG-Novelle) (418 of the Supplements), in which the National Council is invited to decide, in second reading, to amend the draft law referred to in the title. The distribution of the application has already taken place. Short: What content is this about? – It is mainly about the exception to the suspension of transport concrete, about driving schools and external courses, particularly in the field of agricultural educational institutions, and about adaptations and changes in the transport of proof when it comes to the exception to the input of certain data, in the case of the change of drivers, including in the case of omnibuses. That is the amendment tabled. I hope to have a broad support. Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[20:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23660	The amendment has been properly tabled and sufficiently supported, as mentioned, has been distributed and is under negotiation. No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That is not the case either. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the Transport Committee's submissions and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:11:12]] 38. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 758/A(E) by Mrs Dr. Johannes Margreiter, colleagues on the extension of bicycle infrastructure as an economic motor (419d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23700	We'll get to 38. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Joachim Schnabel came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23731	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Under Agenda item 38 we discuss the importance of expanding the bicycle infrastructure. Here you have to hold down in principle: To achieve mobility in general, it needs a working infrastructure that is everyday, practical and even intact and safe. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to It was introduced year after year. The positive news is that at the same time, the Federal Government's federal funding in this area has been increased from EUR 4 million to EUR 40 million – ten times! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This tenfold increase has already highlighted the importance of the Federal Government and all of us the advance of the expansion of the cycle paths – or cycle roads, as Dr. Margreiter says – and also the cycle speed roads. What is the big objective of this initiative? – The aim is to increase the share of cycling from 7 percent of current traffic within five years to 13 percent. It is important to update the Master Plan cycling with these new means, with the new accents and the new objective – that is also the aim of this application. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Who are the implementers of these infrastructure projects? – These are mostly the communities in conjunction with the federal states. There is 40 to 50 percent support from the Climate Fund, and the countries, all eight countries, also support this cycle development. The remaining funds are co-financed by all federal states with a share of between 11 and 70 percent. For rural communities there are still funds from the area of Elder – development for rural areas – but for the rest of the funding there is, of course, also the KIP, which has often been mentioned here. It is therefore possible to obtain funding of up to 100 percent, so that the municipalities can implement it. Thank you very much, Mrs Minister. I would also like to ask you to take this opportunity to adapt the funding criteria in such a way that they are also suitable for rural areas. We have a barrier to these impact assessments, there are 2 000 journeys needed. Even in the central area Graz is not possible to achieve this. My summary of this request is actually similar to that yesterday when I spoke about the thermal rehabilitation. Yesterday, I said, Whoever invests there helps twice. Today I say: Those who invest there help three times – the climate, because they can then change from passenger to cycling, the regional economy that implements these projects with their employees and workers on the ground, and the third thing why it is good to invest is security. That's what I say from personal experience, because I've been cycling myself in everyday life for years, and as a father of children, you have a bit of fear and concern; my oldest daughter has now made the bike driver's license and is now turning her rounds alone. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Cannon]] Unfortunately, in 2019 we had 32 dead in cycling to complain. With well-developed cycle paths, we actively contribute to reducing even this. That's why: An investment in cycle path development is good for the climate, good for the economy and good for safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23800	The next speaker is Mr Lukas Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23824	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope you're all still awake. Thank you very much to Mr Margreiter, who originally made the request in committee and gave us the opportunity to talk again about cycling. The bike is the transport with the greatest potential we still have when we remember that almost two thirds of all car rides are shorter than 10 kilometers. This is a distance that can be loosened by bike. Why don't all these people or most of these people ride by bike, but by car? – Because they are afraid because it is dangerous because there are no safe cycle paths and because people are forced to risk their lives and their children's lives on dangerous roads. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] If we want more people to ride the bike, we have to make cycling safer. Cycling must not be a test of courage. What do we need to do? – My previous speaker has already mentioned it: We need a better bicycle infrastructure, we need better and safer bike paths – not a road that is somehow ground, but really safe, structurally separated cycle paths – we need bridges for cyclists and pedestrians, we need better laws that protect cyclists and not harass them, and we need political will. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] For the construction of the bicycle infrastructure, we did not achieve a doubling of the budget, as requested by Mr Margreiter, but a tenfold increase to EUR 40 million, which will continue next year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] It has already been mentioned: I think it's also with many mayors – I don't think I need to do that, I don't know if we have a mayor here, ah, super, very good, thank you –, mayors still don't really get that through the municipal investment program there is the possibility of having a bike road with up to 100 percent of the federal government. [[O-ja-Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Abg. Baumgartner has that hand.]] Through the Federal Ministry of Climate Protection, we have a funding of 30 to 50 percent and through the municipal investment programme, a funding of 50 percent. This has never been the case, this is a unique opportunity, and I can only ask all the representatives of the congregation here in this House to implement it in their community. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We need, as I have mentioned, better laws to protect cyclists. I am thinking, for example, of a legal minimum delay when cars overtake cyclists. Anyone who has been driving the racing bike on a federal road and who has been overtaken by a truck at 80 km/h knows what I am talking about. We do not have this in Austria, in Germany it has already been implemented. And we also need to look at the penalties when cycling so that they are proportionate. It is completely absurd that, as we hear in Vienna, for example, people who lack six reflectors are caught on the bright day and pay 120 euros – for six reflectors! When a car driver is caught by 20 km/h when driving, he pays 30 euros. [[Abg. Deimek: What does he pay if the light doesn't go? You have to compare the same thing with the same thing!]] We must resolve this disproportionate relationship. There is also a need for fairer laws and fairer and more proportionate penalties. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] And, Mr Deimek, I can look at you in particular – it also needs political will if we want to promote cycling; I also look towards the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Deimek: Exactly!]] I'm from 2nd grade. Wiener Gemeindezirk, we now have a new district leader, who is now from the SPÖ. The first thing he made known before the official final result was: The pop-up cycle paths are getting away! [[Abg. Deimek: That's great!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] The social democratic mayor of Paris, Mrs Hidalgo, has decided that 50 kilometres of pop-up cycle paths remain forever. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It takes political will, not just on the meta-level and on Sunday's speeches. We know that whenever it becomes concrete, the automobile emergency will be called out, if only a parking lot will come away. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Lausch: They're getting away like Mrs. Hebein!]] Yes, I think we really need a political will to enforce it, then we can. I wish you all the best in the implementation of your cycling policy in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I believe that this is one of ours, and I believe that we can also do much in this House to promote active mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e23979	The next speaker is Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24003	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! No, I'm not there with the wheel, not only because it's not entirely allowed for the season, but also the distance it would be less, because the corresponding infrastructure is not quite present. So we have a lot to do. If you go cycling in Austria today, it is obvious that it is a purely tourist topic. That doesn't make it smaller, that's a very important thing. Tourism associations throughout Austria have certainly invested a lot in the bicycle infrastructure in recent years. As a means of leisure, as a sports equipment, the bike has already arrived. Where there is still too little arrived, is in use as a daily means of transport. If we really want to counteract climate change, it is inevitable that mobility behaviour changes in such a way that the bicycle is used as a daily means of transport. There are strong investments possible – I am not at all willing to note that. I almost want to say that the bike seems to have a very binding effect in the House because we are largely in agreement here, Mr Schnabel, Mr Hammer, that it is necessary to invest. The budget also provides for the appropriate resources to be available. Tenfolding: That depends on where you connect in comparison. Where you can really connect, where it can be determined, is in Vienna, in the progress coalition, in which it has definitely been agreed that the funds for the bike paths, for the bicycle roads are quadrupled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] That's a great announcement. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But I would also say, Mrs. Federal Minister, that it would be good to take a little bit of money in order to really raise awareness. It seems to me that it is still too little anchored that the bicycle is suitable as a daily means of transport. In other words, the Federal Government takes a lot of money into its hands when it comes to image campaigns – perhaps it would really be advisable to consider making a wide-ranging campaign that the bicycle is really suitable for transport to work, as transport for the last mile to the public transport network. You should really think about making awareness work because there are still problems. I still have to say critically, for example, the word bicycle does not appear in the scope of the mobility budget, And that is also a sign to me that it is necessary to create consciousness in this area. The program, which can be done with money, all of which is part of the bicycle infrastructure, is known. First of all, it is about the bicycle roads, but it is also about bicycle storage sites, covered bicycle storage sites, which are sufficiently equipped with charging possibilities, especially at railway stations, so that it works as an integrated transport system of the environmental network consisting of the transport of active mobility, especially the bicycle, and the public transport network. I am very pleased that we are largely in agreement in the House. This is a very nice sign and should be an incentive that it really succeeds in expanding the bicycle infrastructure in such a way that when the warm season begins, I can actually handle my working path from Tyrol to here in Parliament by bicycle. That would be my purpose. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24064	Mrs. Leonore Geessler has reported on an opinion. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24085	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Five very short points: first of all, thank you for supporting the subject. The topic of bicycle infrastructure is not only an economic engine just now, as was the case in the original application, but also an important contribution to the mobility turnaround – as Mr Hammer has just done – also in rural areas. We have a lot of potential there, so thank you for the broad support. The second point: We address the subject in a comprehensive way, at one end – I see, this is an issue that comes to mind – we are working for all cyclists here in the High House on the bicycle infrastructure around the Hofburg – i.e. I hope we will soon have improvements – and at the other end we are working on improving the bicycle infrastructure all over Austria together with the federal states – Master Plan Cycling – which is also about establishing a target network process for the cycle route network. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Third point, criteria: Mr Schnabel, I will take it with me. These are often issues which are less sensitive to the content criteria, but are issues of financial compensation, EU legal requirements et cetera. I'd like to take it with me again. This is many years of practice, but of course it can always be made better. Fourth point – for all mayors in the house –: There is still money this year, so if you still have a project in your community – I see a mayor who is happy – there will be funding in 2020. I have integrated the fifth point into the fourth, so I speak even shorter, and I think that is after a long, long plenary day in our sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24128	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - No, that's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the Transport Committee's submissions and continue to complete the agenda. [[20:27:12]] 39. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24168	We'll get to 39. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Christian Hafenecker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24195	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The traffic law has been working on us for some time. Finally, we have talked about why the criteria for German knowledge have been downgraded, which in principle was not the intention of this law, as it is currently present, and now we are still faced with other things. In the beginning, I would like to bring a few quotes to the Occasional Traffic Act: “We are now creating a uniform framework, fair conditions of competition for all.” Or: “We want to define clear and fair rules with the single market for all market participants.” Or: “As Austrian delegates, we represent the interests of Austrian entrepreneurs.” – This is not what I said, but Mr Ottenschlager said that. That's why I'm not quite aware of why the law has been so ruined and why it is so different from what was originally intended. I'd like to take a look back. What motivated us to change this law? – On the one hand, it was the will to close legal gaps, on the other hand, it was the will to create a level playing field between the commercial car and the commercial taxi. We wanted to bring in new quality standards – this was also important and this has also come from consumers. We wanted to ensure that there is no wage dumping in the car rental sector, and of course we also wanted to achieve improvements for our customers. That's why – that was the Animo behind it – we also composed ourselves after the breakup of the coalition and have been intertwined in the transitional government of this package of laws. We have also made a promise, Mr Ottenschlager, that we have made to the stakeholders. I think it was really an example of how to really work together constructively in the time of the transitional government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we have black-green and it's all different. I do not understand why Mr Ottenschlager has been thinking about this. The reason for my request – it is also in the title – is the problem with the German knowledge – that has completely disappeared. Although they did not bring together any government documents, they have just converted a functioning law. German skills are no longer important, that is, in the progress we had made that customers could have been able to tell the driver where they wanted to, and he would have understood them, we are taking a step back. In the future So it says again: You say I'm going! – I don’t know if we have made a leap forward for consumers. Another area – and it is a novel that is now in place – is now finally breaking the law, and in fact it is a predisposition of the car rental area. To these injustices, which were there before, one returns with this novel. This is a threat to the life of the taxi companies that are already taking you to the brink of their existence with this lockdown – get into a taxi and talk to the drivers about how they are doing and what they are doing. But now come. Therefore, they still build a law that was oriented in a completely different direction, so that any companies from Silicon Valley, who don't even pay any taxes at all, are ultimately handed down and the domestic taxi industry is destroyed. If I look at what's happening there, it wouldn't surprise me if the companies Uber, Bolt or what they all call might be on some sort of donation list of the ÖVP or the Greens, because one thing I have to say: Such a law can only be converted and estranged by such an animo. By the way, we also know that Chancellor Kurz likes to stay in Silicon Valley and hold a farm there at large Silicon-Valley-Groups and, at the same time, supported a Silicon-Valley company massively with the lockdown, namely Amazon. On the other hand, we are now making a Lex Uber, a Lex Bolt and as they all may be called. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this process is unacceptable. Mr. Ottenschlager, I have to write this to you in the main book: You've actually lied to all the people we've been eating with for days with with this hundred eighty-eight-degree turn. We have tried to find a solution with all stakeholders. You just lied to her, and she'll tell you with this novelle today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to let go anyway. Taxi companies in Vienna and all over Austria know that they have a reliable partner in us. Of course, we will always close down and network very well with taxi companies in the future. Mr. Ottenschlager, you know how taxi operators can react when they're angry. I wish you a lot of fun if the Ministry of Transport is blocked by these strange measures that are being taken here. We are on the side of the taxi drivers and will also support them. There's still one way to get out of this mess. There too, Mrs Federal Minister, as I said earlier, we are happy to work for you. We help you with your work because you were overburdened with your four Covid regulations. There is another way to get out of the dilemma: You have to withdraw this novelle right away. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, think of the taxi companies in Austria that now have it hard enough, remember that there are people behind it to feed the families! Think again about what you are doing if you want to sacrifice our companies in favor of any Silicon Valley company! - I think that's a wrong way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[20:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24388	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and under negotiation. For the accusation of the lie, I have a call for order. Member Andreas Ottenschlager has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24429	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You can be of a different opinion, dear colleague Hafenecker. But what has just been formulated here by you is an injunction of law purchase! That's what I'm pointing out to the strictest, that's a mess! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Any material criticism is completely in order, one can be of different opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] However, I am actually accustomed to the fact that we, the members of the Transport Committee, are discussing matters and not at the level at which you have just given your speech here. [[Abg. Hafenecker: But why does it look like that?]] I really have to say that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Smoking: The truth hurts, my colleague.]] On the facts: It is true that the quotations are completely correct and I am also with them. We took a right step. We have put together two trades which actually do the same thing, practice the same trade. This will enter into force in order to prevail for all fair conditions. That's what we're talking about. That's good and right. Yes, we have raised the level, for example in the field of driver training, so that the same conditions apply to all and that those who come from the car industry must also take appropriate training. By the way, this also includes the proof of German knowledge, and that remains the case. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Don't leave anything! Sorry, no more uber.]] Secondly, I think it is right, despite all of this, and that is why – this is my last sentence – we will hopefully discuss this in the Committee on Transport and at least with those who are interested in finding an objectively good solution, perhaps also finding a good, common solution – for both sides, both for entrepreneurs and for customers.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24508	The next speaker is Mr Alois Schroll. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24532	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The government parties, Turquoise and Green, have just passed over the hackler board and the pensions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the taxi drivers are supposed to get under the wheels through you. - Not with social democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24556	The next speaker is Member Hermann Weratschnig. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24578	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a request from the Liberals from the Transport Committee today. It is a request that cannot be postponed – this request must be rejected! – that is why we are discussing here in plenary today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are clear rules for all trade in the event-traffic law. This includes higher quality training, which includes the taxi ticket, which includes the price scheme. We have not changed the law as regards the request of the liberals, and sufficient language skills remain in the law. But what the liberals want – that is what they have to imagine – is that everyone in the car industry, all in the industry in the future should have B1-qualification. – Absolutely overlaid! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] The FPÖ is intentional to push out a certain group from this sector. That is the real reason for this request, Mr Christian Hafenecker! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Which group?]] Hundreds of drivers would hang in the air with this request, you have to imagine! And then Mr. Hafenecker turns himself out here and says: We need to work for the small taxi drivers and for the drivers! At the same time, he makes a request to put those people in the air. That's what you want: Eliminate a certain group. We're not going with that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Which group?]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: You run wage dumping! They promote wage dumping!]] One thing, I think, is quite clear: In the development of the traffic law – which has been addressed – we need changes so that we are fit for the future so that we can offer a perspective for those who offer communication tools, those who work online. We do not block digitization. This is precisely where it needs application: the alternative providers, including those who work in the micro-traffic regions and are willing to support public transport. With regions I mean the federal states and everything that happens outside of Vienna and the capitals. This requires support, as there is a need for framework conditions – fair framework conditions. Of course, the issue of collective agreements is also important, and I appeal to the Chambers: If they now explain to us what is necessary, then I believe that a house assignment of the chambers – that is, of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce – would be to look at whether the collective agreement is still up-to-date. I am or we believe that there need to be increases. This is the task of the social partners, and I believe that we should also talk about it and also support it – and not have a collective discussion in which we are fully aware of the need for flexibility in digitisation, Mr Transport Speakers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] We will make this flexibility, and we will reject today's request for freedom.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24697	The next speaker is Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24722	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I do not want to think for a long time what the reason, the true reason for this request, is, but I would simply try to see it objectively. What does Language Level A2 mean? – Language level A2, which is currently required, means that in simple, routine situations one can understand that one understands sentences and often used expressions. I'd mean, and this also shows the practice that that's quite enough for taxi drivers. So I'm not aware of any problems that the service, the quality of the service, fails that it doesn't work. We believe that this is also very important, because in this sector of commerce there are a lot of opportunities for entry into professional life for people with migration backgrounds. It is particularly important that they be given an opportunity to work. It is also always a requirement that these people, as it were, are not on their hands to the social state, but can secure their own existence. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] Now, if you suddenly asked for B1, you'd already have a massive obstacle to it. So so much about this request. I would, however, like to take the issue of taxi as an opportunity to put forward a motion for a resolution. Although he is now a little overwhelmed by the current events, I am still bringing him in. The occasion – there is no need for conspiracy theories about Silicon Valley or something like that – is quite simply a report from the Federal Competition Authority, which has examined the legal situation resulting from this novel, with which the taxi industry and the car rental industry have been combined. This report triggers the need for action. We practically no longer have a competitive situation in the field of commercial passenger transport by car. It is precisely the meaning of my motion for a resolution. Of course, we are now experiencing many reactions from the taxi industry, but one thing you have to say: It will not stop that there will be ever-increasing platforms on which supply and demand are linked digitally through the digitisation of society. This also leads to problems in other areas, we know, because it is simply new because we have to adjust to it first. It would, however, be fundamental to react to this by decommissioning the market by preventing competition. It'll never work. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24862	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and under negotiation. Andreas Ottenschlager is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24889	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since I was somewhat emotional – as I mean, quite justified – I may wish to make two, three more material contributions to the development of this topic here. Because it is always in the room that we now plan to implement inequalities: I can only repeat it once again, including what Mr Hermann Weratschnig has already said, and also what Mr Hafenecker – in this case – correctly formulated. The intention was always clear: We want fair conditions for everyone. That is why it was also useful to combine these two industries so that they all had to meet the same conditions – in order to create fair competition. I think we can do that with this law, with this combination. I would just like to stress this once again in all its clarity, because, I believe, it is also important to know that, even for the spectators who are interested in it; perhaps some taxi operators are also involved. This intention remains upright and nothing changes either. - On the one hand. Secondly, the question of wage and social dumping: We are well aware of the fact that there has always been or has come to be difficulties or miscarriage in this industry. This is a problem we want to solve. However, this is not directly related to whether you have a tariff or how high it is, but in principle it is also a matter of control. If there is a disinheritance or someone is not paid under the collective agreement, then it is simply a question of social control, financial control, as it is throughout the economy, whether someone pays his taxes and taxes. I would also like to stress this: It can't be that we say in this case: Okay, there's such a problem, and we'll solve that with some sort of tariff. – I would also like to make it quite clear here, it is also important to know that one does not directly have something to do with the other. Thirdly and last point: Yes, of course, there are companies in this area, which were very offensive in competition. However, the project is also implemented – that is why this is also the case in the proposal we are going to discuss – that in the respective country regulations – since all of them know, these tariffs and these pricings are negotiated by the respective federal states and are also implemented accordingly by regulation – that no journey may take place at a certain price in the future when pre-ordering. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] That means that we are definitely creating a lower limit, so that there is no travel by 2 or 3 or 4 euros, which may still be in direct competition with a tram ride. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That would be bad!]] [[Abg. Sherak: That would be terrible!]] We also want to prevent unnecessary rides and cheap rides. We simply want to have a lower limit, which allows fair pricing, so that such cheapest offers are no longer possible at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24948	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[20:48:23]] Vote on agenda items 37 to 39
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e24973	We shall now proceed to the vote on the reports of the Committee on Transport, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we enter the voting process, I can ask if the clubs are ready. Well, I'll be right back to the vote. We will first go to agenda item 37: Proposal relating to 39. KFG-Novelle in 411 of the supplements. Mr Weber, Mr Weratschnig, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Weber, Mr Weratschnig, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional and amendment amendment concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 7a to 7e, the deletion of paragraph 37 and the resulting renumbering of subsequent figures and the amendment to new paragraph 41. Who is in favour of it, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – Same voting behaviour, therefore majority adopted. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Whoever is in the third reading for this, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is true, therefore, also accepted by a majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 38: We shall first vote on the motion for a resolution by the Transport Committee to take note of its report 419 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 758/A(E). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore majority adopted. We shall also vote on the resolution on the follow-up to the Committee's 419 report on the continuation of the measures under the Government's programme to increase the share of active mobility in the Austrian mobility mix. Whoever is for this, I ask him again for a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. [[117/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 39: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 420 of the supplements. I can ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore it is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hafenecker, fellow Members, on 'To ensure fair competition in the passenger transport sector - No to amend the Chance Transport Act'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Margreiter, colleagues, on 'Liberalization of taxi and car rental'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. [[20:51:53]] 40. Point First reading: Proposal by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 4 July 1989 was adopted. It amended the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) on July 1975 (964/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25129	We'll get to 40 now. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant receives the floor, which is the honourable Member, Mr Belakovich. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25156	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, there was a presidential meeting, where there was then disagreements afterwards. In concrete terms, Mr Sobotka's statement appeared in the Minutes that he had ordered that all parliamentary staff or all club workers with oral nose protection should be on their way in the house. There were then several oppositions, actually more oppositions than consents, but it was so that this passus remained in the protocol. As a result, we have decided to make this request – so that such inconsistencies will also be possible in the future. can no longer happen – that one can record presidential sessions on tape and then at any time listen to what has actually been said and what is not. Once the protocol is approved, these tape recordings should also be deleted. Such disagreements could no longer happen. I think we will still have enough opportunity to discuss this more precisely.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25189	Mrs Neumann-Hartberger is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25210	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As the last speaker of the ÖVP in this very intensive plenary week, I would like to draw a brief summary of all the debates that have taken place since January: Many decisions, super-cooking emotions, unchallenged criticisms, inappropriate choice of words, packs and unheard-of calls were on the agenda – for me in this form something still in need of habit. How to keep this theatre going all day? was the content of countless news that I have been able to reach this week by interested audiences. I understand that everyone and everyone here wants to convince, but in this House, I think, we should think again about communicating respectfully and objectively. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Bürstmayr and Mr Schallmeiner on his report.]] The population is expecting a professional and appreciative approach and debates that are worthy and tolerable. [[Abg. Loacker: Would you like to say something to me anyway?- Oh, my God!]] . I come to Mr Herbert Kickl's motion for a resolution (964/A), ladies and gentlemen. [[Call:Thank you]] The FPÖ is in favour of how we have just heard it to record the meetings of the Presidential Conference by means of tape recording and has requested a corresponding amendment of the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. In my knowledge, the President is a consultative body in all the interests of the National Council – I hope I am right – consisting of the Bureau and the club members, in which different opinions and positions need a common solution. This seems to have worked well in the past. The minutes shall be prepared by the Director of Parliament and made available to all members. The usual protocol procedure shall apply, with the possibility of objections, adaptations, examinations and, ultimately, of notifying and approving all members. Should it not rather be in the foreground of being able to speak confidently about everything openly and with no reservations? Does that work when a band runs along? Whether this is really necessary for the future will be discussed, and I think that will be sufficient opportunity in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I wish you all a wonderful and relaxing weekend.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25274	The word is Klubobfrau Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers, if you are still present! We have a first reading on tape recording of the Presidential Conference and our position on it is that we believe that this is not a good idea. [[Call:Why]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We have here in Parliament a whole series of uses which are not laid down in the Rules of Procedure, which have emerged over many years as a common sense, to which we jointly commit ourselves, which make the course of the meetings here more democratic, which ensure that we make as much consensus as possible. The President is the place where we usually, in fact always, talk to each other differently than here in the plenary debates from the speaker's desk. This week again was not a very good plenary week, as far as calls for order and the climate in general are concerned. It is for this Parliament that the political groups find a common relationship and that there is also the possibility of talking together in areas where not every single word that is spoken and every single argument is coming to the public, because only as much as possible is one to find one another in certain points and that we find a consensus in areas where it is not easy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Think... before you talk!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] This is very often a classical negotiating situation and, accordingly, confidentiality there is important and right and good. I believe that we as Parliament should preserve this area as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25370	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed, and I agree with Amendment 964/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:59:03]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25403	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Hafenecker, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on motion 896/A, a deadline of 7 June. to be set up on December 2020. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request for a deadline, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[20:59:27]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-11-20-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00064_d8e25433	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have brought in applications 1063/A(E) to 1120/A. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 20.59 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
