ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5679	Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to welcome you very warmly on the second day of the sitting and 71. The European Council held a meeting of the National Council. I welcome the journalists and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens. For today's meeting as prevented, MEPs are reported Kira Grünberg, Mag. Michael Hammer, Nurten Yılmaz, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzicund Bedrana Ribo, MA. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5728	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office made the following communication on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is the Deputy Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler and Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. represented by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research Dr. Heinz Fassmann. I am allowed to announce – I have already discussed this with the political groups – that Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection Rudolf Anschober is in short notice ill. [[Abg. Worm: Corona probably! Does he have Corona?]] His office will soon be taken over by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M. We have agreed that we are still beginning the meeting; Mrs. Minister has received this information in the short term. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5791	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5860	I announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 7.15 p.m., and then the meeting will be transmitted via live stream. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5878	In order to be able to negotiate item 74, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. This is the report of the main committee on the reimbursement of an overall proposal for the election of the chairmen of the Federal Parliamentary Committee in accordance with § 4 para. 9 of the 2001 Wehrgesetz (606 of the Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5906	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 to 6, 7 to 9, 10 and 11, 12 to 18, 19 and 20, 26 to 33, 34 and 35, 39 and 40, 41 to 49, 51 and 52, 54 to 56, 57 and 58, as well as 67 and 68 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5927	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day-blocking period of 11 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, so that the following speaking times would arise: ÖVP 215 minutes, SPÖ 149 minutes, FPÖ 121 minutes, Green 110 minutes and NEOS 88 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 44 minutes each, the speaking time per debate is limited to 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. Who is for it, I ask him to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you very much. [[09:08:35]] 1. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1118/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Drugs Act (561 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e5981	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kaniak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6009	Good morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! Before I go into the agenda today, I would like to focus briefly on the last Committee on Health, because the way in which the parties of government have taken part within this committee is bordered by an immeasurable monsterry and by an incredible ignorance of parliamentarianism and of each of the Members. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet experienced what has happened there. We have been used in recent months to the fact that even if they have affected most serious legal matter, even though they have presented massive interventions in the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens, they have come to the committee and also to the plenary on the last press, partly not even in compliance with the 24-hour principle. However, the fact that there are not even any proposals to be put on the agenda of a committee and to be negotiated there has never actually been. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the Greens! How can you make a show like this and deny Parliament, its committees and every Member of this House such a disdain? Shame! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now on item 1 on the amendments to the Drugs Act: We have an almost invading change, but thanks to God, only a very small area of addiction is concerned, i.e. an extension of the competences for police secondary centres as well as for official veterinarians. We must also say here that no dialogue has been sought with us, and from our own research and from the consultation with those concerned we do not in any way find ourselves in what these expansions of competence are to be necessary. Persons who are housed in police secondary centres for a few days and need substitutes covered by the Drug Act are already provided, have a permanent regulation, the health insurance fund has already paid for its substitution medication, and the medications are already individually prepared and available. What double-tracked is to create an additional addiction depot in the police secondary centres, which means a massive red tape, a massive increase in the cost of inventory, increased costs – in the final effect double costs and even more – that does not mean that we are going to get involved, and that is why we reject it. Equally unnecessary is the extension of the addiction to official veterinarians, since most of the official veterinarians are also veterinary doctors in the established area, who have their own veterinary home pharmacies available, where the addictions for the anesthesiology of animals are quite present. There is also a double track with a massive administrative burden, with additional risks in the storage, which are completely unnecessary, and therefore this is also rejected by our side. We will not approve Agenda item 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6066	Mr Schalmeiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6087	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! This novel has not come as inconceivable as Mr Kaniak has done. At least she was in review. The professional representation of Mr Kaniak, namely the Chamber of Pharmacy, has, among other things, also delivered an opinion on this subject, namely the only negative. Otherwise, there have been only positive comments on this novel. That's the fact side of the whole thing. What's this about? – On the one hand, as Mr Kaniak has already correctly done, the situation in police detention centres is the same as in judicial enforcement centres. This is not only about addiction substitution, it is generally about drugs that fall within the category of addictions. So it's not only about the famous, well-known Substi, but also about the treatment of the sick. On the other hand, it is about the supply of addictions in local authorities for the control of disease of veterinary medicinal products. I think these are things that should normally be out of dispute. I suspect it's more about doing the pharmacy chamber the favor and being against it. At least that's my impression. If it's different: We are happy to discuss this, Mr Kaniak, but I believe that all the objections that have been raised by you or your group have been completely cleared by the committee at the time, otherwise not all the other parties would go along. So that's why: We agree, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6118	Mr Silvan is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6139	High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! From our point of view, the amendment relating to the Drugs Act contains useful measures and is supported by the SPÖ. We support the fact that the Ministry of the Interior and the subordinate departments for the medical care of stopped persons may directly obtain drugs containing drugs containing drugs from the search for drugs from the wholesale, as well as that territorial authorities may be entitled to obtain drugs for the control of animal diseases from the wholesale as well. We also support that a note with the signature of the substitute doctors replaces the vidation by the official doctors. We would even go that far, not to be limited to 30.6.2021, but directly to permanent law. As has been said, we support this amendment, but we do not support any requests without content that are submitted to the Health Committee. Mr Kaniak has already mentioned it: In the last Health Committee, ÖVP and Greens have submitted an empty request on covid-related financial grants to the ÖGK, which is logically on the agenda today and is to be referred back to the Health Committee. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the ÖVP, what is this? – This is a period of months around financial support for the ÖGK. For government marketing, to make the chancellor better available in the media, 200 million euros have been made available, but for the health insurance of workers, the ASVG-pensionist is no money. The EGTC is obviously to be starved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance sets conditions for the ÖGK before he wants to loosen taxpayers' money. I believe that the Minister of Finance should have set the AUA conditions rather than the ÖGK. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] The Minister of Finance should rather have provided conditions for companies that, despite state support, pay dividends and management bonuses. Workers and pensioners pay almost 80 percent of the taxes in this country in the form of wage tax and VAT. Give these people back the money so that at least their health insurance is insured! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6190	Mr Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6212	Beautiful good morning all over! Mr President! Dear Mrs Health Justice Minister! [[Cheerfulness of Federal Minister Zadić.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! After the hard lockdown, many are now rightly wondering how it goes on. Fortunately, as expected, the figures have fallen somewhat, but unfortunately still at a too high level. In addition to the proven and well-known measures, there is now a special focus on testing. It is planned to test regularly in the old and care homes, the same also applies to the hospitals. In addition, mass tests are now in all mouths. [[Call the SPÖ: In all noses!]] I'd rather call them bigger samples. They are a useful means of getting control of the Covid numbers in Austria. Why? – Because it interrupts infection chains and filters out asymptomatic virus carriers. This can delay an increase in numbers. But it certainly needs repetitions, for example in regions with higher numbers. We need staff to do this, and that is why, in addition to health professionals, members of social care professions should be authorized to perform cancellations. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to participate in the tests! Don't be unsure of the irresponsible boycott calls! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The available antigen fast tests are high-quality and you get a result in a short time. But a negative result is not a free letter, but just a snapshot. I would like to say one more word about Mr Schnedlitz and his embarrassingly positive Colatest yesterday: Please, inform yourself before if you talk about such a thing! It seems to me like in the first hour of chemistry: Learn through trial and error! Please inform yourself next time! Ladies and gentlemen, however, there is also a hope in the FPÖ: Yesterday, the FPÖ Regional Council for Infrastructure in Upper Austria has advertised a mask for all of our health in the “city tour Linz” with a mask for the mask. I ask you: Let him help you in these things! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] The topic of addiction: At present, there is hardly any area of life that is not affected by Covid, which also applies to the addictions. There are three areas concerned: One area is the prescription of substitution drugs. A novel has already been decided in April to enable a permanent prescription, especially in view of the fact that contact frequencies in the ordinations and ambulances are reduced and patients are also protected from infection. We will now extend this regulation. The second area is the above mentioned 14 police detention centres, which are responsible for repressive and custody. More than 20 000 people were admitted there in 2019. Now, an ordinary medical standard is to be established in comparison to the execution of the sentence. A third point concerns animal diseases. The African swine fever is mentioned here. This is an animal disease in wild and domestic pigs, which has been detected in many European countries. It has not yet occurred in Austria, but the risk of introduction is high. In the event of suspicion or detection of an infection, the killing of the diseased animals shall be foreseen. It is therefore about animal welfare killing, and this requires psychotropic substances, i.e. addictions, which the local authorities may now also acquire. With these three amendments to the Addictions Act, we create conditions for a better handling of the necessary addictions during the Covid crisis. Finally, I would like to appeal again: Don't forget to take part in the tests! This is important, only in this way can we bridge the time up to the vaccinations in some way. It should apply to me and to everyone else as well: Please test before the feast! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6270	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Health. [[09:21:06]] 2. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1119/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law which provides for the allocation of federal assets to cover the need to combat the Covid-19 pandemic (562 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1120/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act, the Federal Law on Hospitals and Health facilities and the Law on Sanitary Law (563 d.b.) 4. Point Report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Act on provisional measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 (COVID-19 Act) (564 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1049/A(E) by Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, colleagues on the necessary data transparency and control of the effectiveness of the covid measures to protect the population (565 d.a.) 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1091/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the prohibition of covid-19 forced testing and forced vaccination (566 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6362	We come to points 2 to 6 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Nussbaum is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6389	Good morning, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Seers and Seers! The Covid-19 Pandemic has been under our control for nine months, and from the beginning the masks will accompany us through this pandemic. From the beginning, we have heard that older people are particularly vulnerable. That's what I'm asking myself: Why does it take nine months for an application to have over 65-year-olds living in Austria to receive ten FFP2 masks? What's taking so long? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Such a measure could have prevented many infections or some deaths. It is a sensible measure, but unfortunately – like all the measures in this area – it is being whipped through here in Parliament. It will be forgotten to talk to the opposition, to talk to those affected, and I would like to stop. Why do not people belonging to the risk group receive masks? I would like to focus on people with disabilities in particular. For many of them, the scenario of suffering from Covid is a threatening scenario, but for almost every regulation that should counteract the spread of Covid, it has been forgotten to people with disabilities. The measures were only extended to these persons through laborious follow-up negotiations and pressure from the representatives of the disabled. Now, people with disabilities are being forgotten again and are being pushed out of public space more and more. All measures do not really have transparency. Today we are faced with 74 agenda items, yesterday the government tried – again without discussions in a committee without going into review – to let the police into the living room. – The uproar was great, then there was an amendment, and it was called: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! - Good. After a further stir, the text has now been amended to indicate that the police are not allowed to control in the private living room. But this measure in general is an insanity. That's unthinkable, and we won't let that happen. This is an intervention in our fundamental and freedom rights, which is not possible. And that government parties are still bringing this up on the Day of Human Rights, I find it particularly objectionable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6437	Mrs Pfurtscheller. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6459	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues and, above all, dear viewers in front of the screens! I would like to speak on Amendment No 1119/A. It is about empowering the Minister of Health to distribute FFP2 masks to people over 65 years of age. I think this is a very, very important measure and a very, very good measure, because we know that in this pandemic the age group of over 65-year-olds is particularly affected and, of course, has to be protected. In this age group, the most serious consequences of infection are reported. Therefore, the Minister of Health has now made the proposal to send ten FFP2 masks to people who are particularly vulnerable by mail, free of charge, so that they can protect themselves with these masks in special situations when they are in contact with other people, for example when shopping, in the pharmacy or at the doctor, et cetera. These masks offer greater protection than normal, they protect not only the opposite from infection, but above all also the carrier itself. That is why we can only welcome and support this proposal. And I ask all the ladies and gentlemen who are now watching to wear these masks when they get them. This is just an important contribution to reducing the risk of infection in this age group. If we are already talking about wearing the mask, then of course I will also come to the subject of tests and the subject of coronaapp. I would like to make an advertisement for the corona app here again. I downloaded it myself in spring, which is not at all complicated. Data security has long been guaranteed. You just make a valuable contribution to the health of all, because if you get infected, you can register it via the corona app. Everyone with whom one has had contact for a certain period of time at a certain distance is informed, and they then know that they should be more conscious and more sensitive to the state of their health. So please, download the app, it does not hurt and is done in 5 minutes! The same is true with the tests that are now being offered. These tests are free of charge and have already been carried out in Tirol, Salzburg and Vorarlberg last weekend; Vienna's just there. Of course, I've been tested myself. It's done in 10 minutes, 15 minutes. It does not hurt, it may be a bit unpleasant for a short moment, but after a quarter of an hour you know whether you are positive or negative. I think every individual citizen can make this contribution very well for all our health. We all want this pandemic to end quickly, that as few people as possible suffer damage, and I think it is not too much to demand that you make this contribution, which is neither a cost nor a great effort, and in which you have nothing to fear. I would like to call on all those who have not yet been tested: Go where the tests are now offered, test and even when tests are offered again – probably sometime after Christmas – test! You protect yourself, you protect others and above all you contribute to the fact that we can have a beautiful feast, a beautiful Christmas in the circle of our family, without having to suffer the consequences afterwards due to increased levels of infection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6501	Mr Kaniak is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6522	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to repeat briefly what Mr Saxinger and Mrs Pfurtscheller said: This is really not a heroic act by the Federal Government that now, almost a three-quarters of years after the crisis, for the first time for risk groups and over 65-year-old FFP2 masks are made available. This is a certificate of poverty and a failure and shows that this state planning economy, which is more reminiscent of the GDR than of a modern state, is entirely in addition to the fact that the measures are too late, are too low, but cause massive costs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] This would not be necessary at all if a reasonable cost for these medical devices, for example through existing distribution systems, through social security and public pharmacies and medical coordinations, had been handled. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Then these medical devices could have been available for months, then the risk group would be protected. Mr Saxinger, as you have said, it is intended to be tested in the old houses and to carry FFP2 masks. Please, the protection of the risk groups and the old people's homes have already been established several weeks ago by regulation! We've been calling for this since spring. As the death figures show, we also have the biggest problem there. So you're a lot too late and you're doing a drop on the hot stone, with ten masks for the next month – or how long should it last? We know a mask should be worn for a maximum of one day. So this is far too little, much too late, but at a massive cost. Now to the other laws: We now come to a very important point, namely the changes to the Epidemie Act, the Sanitary Law and the Hospital Law. This, Mr Schallmeiner, is the legislative points and changes I have criticized, namely that they have not been reviewed. There you have a lapish addiction law novel, in which nothing is in the final effect, carefully examined, but changes in the epidemic law with massive interventions into the private, fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens, while in the original drafts a right of entry for the police in the private housing areas has even been provided for in medical consideration, try to express on the shortest way and without consideration. This is the true scandal, and that is what I also criticized in my first speech. Thank God, you can only say that you have responded to the pressure that the opposition has built up. I would also like to thank colleagues from SPÖ and NEOS who have been very much opposed to these interventions with us. This abuse of the police, but also of the military for health services assistance, which is intended to go to private housing until now, must be strictly rejected. This is unacceptable and, above all, it is completely disproportionate. With what argument, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA and the Greens, do you want to decide on such rights of intervention here? In the past nine to ten months, we have brought this crisis very well even without these rights for the police and the security forces, at least enough good enough that we do not need additional restrictions of freedom. Letter You're behind your ears! We liberals will be massively opposed to any further intervention in fundamental and freedom rights. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Make sure that these delicate laws are properly reviewed, a proper parliamentary procedure, a broad public debate, and save yourself from these police interventions!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6586	Mrs Diesner-Wais is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6607	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Dear watcher in front of the televisions! Testing interrupts the infection chain, testing can save life. We now have a reinforced test strategy and prepare the vaccination strategy. This, of course, requires an extension of the staff and the rights, and with this innovation we are creating the conditions for it. Let me say a few words about the tests already under way! We can be proud of our federal army, for thousands of soldiers have managed to put the logistical handling of the test roads on their feet in a very short time. Those who have already been tested express praise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But I am also very proud of the personal responsibility of the pedagogists and the police, because many of them went to the tests voluntarily. They thus protect their colleagues and, of course, our children. [[Abg. Amesbauer: What? Protect?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, I am also very proud of our communities, because they have organized mass tests in a very short time. Many women and men – including the Red Cross, the Fire Department, the aid organizations – are volunteering in handling the tests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Thank you very much to those who were ready to work so quickly, help them to show their fellow humanity toward the others. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Mass Tests...! The mass is not taking part!]] I would like, above all, to motivate many people to report and go where the tests are available on the next weekend, just as we in Lower Austria, because we really interrupt the infection chains. Mr Kaniak, I would like to say something to you because you are bad about things and say that one is too late, the other too early. I think it's a good thing that older people over 65 years of age are now being sent ten FFP2 masks, because that's the group for which the disease can really have serious consequences that can really suffer a serious disease. That's why it's good. It is also good that they get the masks sent home, because one or the other does not come to the pharmacy, and if you have them at home, they are also used. To protect people is, I think, very important. We know that in men between 75 and 84 years of age, the mortality rate is 8.2 percent. It's our job to protect these people. Everyone has parents and for everyone it is important that they live even longer. If we can contribute in this way, we must do it. However, I would also like to say something about the FPÖ proposal, which concerns fear of forced vaccinations and forced testing. The government insists on voluntaryness. Don't try to get rid of the pandemic, because there's really a lot of damage around the world! Let us all help together – all those who are represented in Parliament – to fight this pandemic quickly in order to return to a normal life!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6669	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6690	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Diesner-Wais, what you are doing here and what Mayor Preuner has done today, namely to tell people: Go test, then you can celebrate Christmas! –, it's dangerous. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Christmas is in 14 days and until then people can still infect themselves at x other places, but you convey a sense of security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] What you're doing is really dangerous. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] Mr Kaniak is quite right: What the majority groups in the committee have served us was on the border to provocation, and 100 years ago such action was taken. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] I would also like to say that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to the risks related to exposure to exposure to the risks related to exposure to human health and to the risks related to exposure to human health and the environment. The citizens who believe that they would work in the committees must be disappointed. What you're delivering makes Parliament the fifth wheel on a government roll. There is nothing to say about other times here, but if you are concerned about democracy in this country, you have to say that in this House. [[Consistency with NEOS and FPÖ as well as with the Abg. Vogl.]] Now, in the Covid-19 Act, a change is coming that the police can keep an eye on it. In the COVID-19 Act, it is not about the police going to apartments, but that they may go to companies, unannounced to verify compliance with Covid measures. It may consult all the documents, but only those on which it is about Covid. – Yeah, well, if it's about compliance with Covid measures, you know, after you've checked them, don't you? This is a bad joke, with what arguments you make in the committee. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] The police can do everything! And if the opposition had not cried out yesterday, then the house law from 1867 would have been lifted and the police would also go into apartments. What you had under the emperor as a safe right of protection is no longer valid under short and incest! [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] Now 20 million FFP2 masks are ordered for the population over 65 years. You have to imagine this: At the price at which the Mitzi-Tant’ can order ten pieces on the Internet, it will now be delivered ten pieces! But this is not only for the Mitzi-Tant’ and not only for the Mama Sophie delivered by Colleague Pfurtscheller, but also for Vranitzky and Kussel, who do not need it because they can afford the masks themselves. [[Cheerfulness and applause with NEOS and FPÖ.]] If you really wanted to do something -- I know, it didn't happen to this government -- you would have said who would be freed from the prescription fees. is, gets ten such masks for free in the pharmacy. If you stick the e-card, you see that when someone is free, and this one gets it for free. All those who have money can buy it themselves, because they do. Then Mr Saxinger turns himself out and says that it is now planned to test regularly in the homes. – Ah, great, after nine months of covid pandemic! Very great! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] We have 4,000 dead, most of them over 80 years old, and now the ÖVP comes up with testing once in the homes. And so that you don't forget this again, I'm going to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[9:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6875	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Tanda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6900	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of the TV sets! In my short speech, I focus on the change to the law on health care. We can only return to a normal life without restrictions if we finally and definitely get hold of the pandemic. To this end, it is essential to consistently implement the corona vaccine strategy. In order to achieve this, however, access to vaccinations must be as low as possible and simple as possible in order to make it available to all those who want to have a vaccination even under the highest quality standards. There must therefore be a large number of best-trained people who will be allowed to administer protective vaccinations in the future. The extension of the powers of nurses in the Sanitary Law is thus the follow-up step in order to be able to meet the challenges in the pandemic decisively. On the one hand, a very high quality standard is guaranteed for this sensitive area, and on the other hand, only in such a way that anyone who wants to have a vaccination can get it. This authorisation, which is limited to the end of 2021, will ensure that a large number of persons are available. If you're worried now: The conditions for these enlargements of powers are absolutely clear. Corona vaccination may only be administered by nurses with at least 2 000 hours of professional experience. If you can't imagine what 2,000 hours of professional experience are: This is over a year of continuous professional experience. One year has about 1,700 hours of work. And in addition: only after appropriate theoretical and practical training by a doctor who then confirms the necessary skills. In addition, vaccination should only be carried out in adults, only on medical grounds and under the supervision of a doctor personally present. In addition, the implementation is only carried out in structured facilities, such as in vaccination roads on behalf of the National Authority. All these high requirements and conditions for empowerment ensure quality assurance and thus also patient safety. To make our life really more normal again! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6942	Mr Keck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e6963	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have five requests to deal with or decide on these agenda items. There are also amendments to the requests, an amendment to which concerns the collection of contact data. If I look at where contact data should be collected, this is in gastronomy and accommodation establishments, in non-public leisure facilities, in cultural facilities, in non-public sports facilities, in hospitals and spas, in the care of old people, in disabled homes and in organisers. There, contact data outside the living area are collected. The operator is obliged to collect these contact data, i.e. to require a card to ensure that the data that the visitor provides is correct. This data must then be collected for 28 days and must guarantee that it is not available by a third party. This effort, which is being carried out here, is sensational, but Metternich would learn something from you, for he did not do that that the data will be collected in all areas. I really really feel like I'm in a police state when that's what happens. That has nothing more to do with control of Covid-19 or anything else, ladies and gentlemen! The second is to amend the Epidemie Act to empower medicaments to carry out the tests or vaccinations now. All this will be found to be good and all right, but what we don't understand is that pharmacists and pharmacists are excluded. This is precisely the first contact point for individuals in the private sector. They go to the pharmacy to the pharmacist and to the pharmacist, but they must not be tested there, but they must take place at mass tests, where they are not guaranteed that they are really safe. If I look at the pictures, how close the people stand together and, most of the time, don't wear masks, I consider that very negligent if you exclude the pharmacists here. Thirdly, to the masks: Now every person gets ten FFP2 masks in Austria for over 65 years. I have to say that I very much appreciate my retired director-general of the Voest Alpine, but he is now also being sent to these ten masks. I know many colleagues who do not have high pensions that are 62, 63, 64 years old and they have to buy these masks, they do not get them from the government. I think that the casting pot will be poured out, there will not be seen where it is socially compatible to distribute these masks, where they are really used, because even risk patients do not get these masks. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The costs for these tests also depend on the communities again. These are really millions of people who have to pay for these tests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[9:47]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7089	I'd ask you to write the name in the signatures, it's hard to figure out if that's really five or extra accelerator. [[Abg. Belakovich: Only four more!]] I don't want to make the mistake again. I'd ask the clubs to sign the names. I can only guess that – properly introduced in all cases – that it is also sufficiently supported. That is what the motion for a resolution is about to do. Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7122	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! We are discussing a large number of different applications from the last Health Committee. Much has already been said about the masks, but this would in fact be complementary: Who's the cost? Was there a proper tender? All these are questions that are completely unanswered, just as in mass tests. There was also no proper tendering. This is the accusation that we must make to this federal government: There's a call from the top for something. I have followed this debate, and the speech by Mrs Tanda, who has come here and spoke of a vaccination strategy at a time when there has not even been a vaccination, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] To think, someday there may be vaccination, and then perhaps we're all safe again, that's an access that's no longer comprehensible. It is not surprising to me, however, that such crazy speeches are coming here today. We negotiate a law that amends the Epidemic Act, the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas and the Law on Sanitary Law. It is only about equipping the mediters with more competences, and putting the hospital law out of force. We were opposed, but it could be said that this is a law that would have been relatively unspectacular today – would be, if not suddenly in the afternoon, an amendment to this very law, namely, by Mr Schwarz of the ÖVP and Mr Schallmeiner of the Greens. It was suddenly clear that the police should be allowed to enter the private sector from now on. You don't need to shake your head, Mrs Schwarz, of course this amendment has come. And if there had not been this massive pressure from the public, especially from the opposition parties – and I would have expected you, Mrs. Justice Minister, to have a clear statement, too, because what has been said inside it must have been an insanity for you – then we would decide today. Today in the morning I had to read that the ÖVP is so generous and has turned off in the last minute, which the Greens absolutely wanted. - Well, that's exciting! Mrs Schwarz, have you, in fact, been drawn over the table by the Greens? Was that so? I mean, you're not just ordinary Members, you're even Secretary General, there's the black phone right in the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Deputy Secretary-General!]] If you have, has the Federal Chancellor actually been drawn from the Greens over the table? Is that really the case? Have you really noticed in the last minute that you've been pulled over the table by the Greens? So I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] It is significant that neither Mrs Schwarz nor any colleague of the Greens is speaking here today, but I understand this because they are ashamed of the ground and the ground because, as I believe, it was rather reversed: they have been pulled over the table. That is also the reason why You don't even trust yourself, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're experiencing now. We are experiencing the development to a police state, to a state in which the police are able to enter the private areas at any time. This is a system, that is Metternich, but that is also GDR 2.0 – they would marvel and marvel at what is possible in Austria today, in 2020, and that under the cover of democracy à la Kurz, à la Schwarz, à la Anschober.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7174	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7195	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mrs. Minister! – Dear colleague Belakovich, I am talking! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] – Well, that was clear before, but now and then - – it doesn’t matter, we come back to the facts. [[Abg. Worm: Now we're excited about what you're talking about!]] Yeah, it's true: There was a draft amendment which we sent to all the parties yesterday, and there was a corresponding passage in the explanations. You can't believe me now, or you can't believe me. I also personally thanked Mr Leichtfried yesterday, who discovered this Lappsus. We have immediately corrected and corrected this – it is. [[Cheerfulness of Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] – Well, excuse me, Mr. Worm can laugh as much as he wants, things are so. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm keeps his hand in front of his eyes.]] In the meantime, we have adjusted this and the amendment proposal has been made in the right version, in which we also note that the private housing facilities must not be entered, to all. They've gotten it distributed in the meantime. I am therefore bringing in this amendment tabled by Mrs Gabriela Schwarza and by me in favour of Amendment No 1120/A on “a federal law that amends the 1950 Epidemic Act, the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas and the Law on Sanitary Law”, in second reading. As has already been said, the amendment was in the meantime distributed here in the plenary room. He foresees that the living spaces are naturally protected, just as we have been saying this for weeks, for months and time and time again. [[Abg. Worm: We trust you!]] And if you would occasionally listen to the ministers, for example Rudi Anschober, but of course also Minister Zadić, then you knew that for us it was always clear that these premises should not be entered. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Second point: I propose another amendment. This one is so short that I read it: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is also intended to create appropriate clarity. I therefore expect approval, because we have, of course, fulfilled precisely those things which we rightly requested. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[9:55]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7712	Applications are sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7737	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Do you remember the Easter decree? That was this decree of Minister of Health Anschober, in which he wanted to destroy the inviolable domestic law that had been in force since 1867. He wanted the police to be allowed to enter and control your private home in the future; and the whole thing without search warrant, the whole thing without danger in delay, simply so. The Federal Minister has taken back this inconceivable breach of the Constitution. He even apologised for this and was in the “ZIB 2” with Armin Wolf on April 28th. Armin Wolf asked him: From when does the government intend to start controls in the private sector? – Federal Minister Anschober said – I quote literally –: I say quite frankly and honestly, I have learned from the discussion on Easter leave, and with me there will be no such controls, and I know that the Minister of the Interior also sees it this way. - Quote. Seven and a half months later, an amendment came from the Green Parliament Club yesterday, which provides that under the Epidemic Act the police may enter and control the apartment. I wonder if you can still believe the words of Federal Minister Anschhober. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Dear Austrians, either the Minister of Health has deliberately said the untruth or he is simply trying to sell you for stupid. You know, if it were going to ÖVP and greens, then tomorrow could be Or next week a police officer will call you home, you ask: God, how you doing, you got Corona? Can I see if anyone else is in your apartment? Maybe your wife or your husband also has Corona, I'd like to check if anyone is in your apartment and if that's possible. Do you know how to call it something like that? - That's called the police state. What the Greens and the ÖVP obviously want to introduce in Austria is a police state, a police state, as we otherwise only know it from authoritarian dictatorships. [[We welcome NEOS and FPÖ as well as Mr Lercher and Mr Schroll.]] That is the policy of decriminalization, that is the policy of impunity, that is the policy of surveillance, the policy of unlimited police powers. This is the policy of the black and green police state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I say something to you, Mr Schallmeiner, because you said that was a mistake: Don't tell me that was a mistake! Whoever does not want to enter the private living room does not write such a thing into a bill, he does not write such a thing into a draft either. Whoever does not want this, does not write such a thing into a law. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Neos and Mr FPÖ, as well as to the members of the SPÖ.]] You know, that's like the lockdown. I remember, there was a law presented that states that there is the possibility of making a lockdown. We've always said who doesn't want a lockdown, he doesn't write such a thing into any law. The Minister of Health has said, well, he does not want to. And what happened? – The lockdown has come. It also reminds me of the 15th century. June 1961, when Walter Ulbricht said as President of the State Council of the GDR: “No one has the intention to build a wall,” and a month later they began to build a wall in Berlin. You know, such a thing doesn't just happen to you that you write something like that into a design. That is the growth of your common authoritarian thinking and obviously the desire for this police state you want to introduce. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I say to you, fortunately, there is still an opposition in this House – a common opposition in the context – of SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS, which is against such authoritarian all-power fantasies and protects the people from it. Finally, perhaps, greens: I am already aware that this has somehow become part of your policy, that when you sit on the levers of power, you give up all of its principles and stop making green policy. That's what I'm aware of, we've been experiencing for about a year now. What I learned yesterday is a new part of your policy, from which I knew nothing until now. Obviously, it is also part of the new green policy to be humbled by the coalition partner and drawn through the nostrils at the nostrils. In view of what the “Kurier” said yesterday: ‘Police control in apartments: ÖVP blows back greens”, I'll give you a little tip. You don't have to take care of him, but maybe it's time to stop being humiliated by the coalition partner. It would really be soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7825	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7846	Good morning, Mr President. Good morning, Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, Mrs. Zadić is here bravely holding the position. Otherwise there is silence on the government bank, which shows, I believe, the Today's list of speakers; there are no clubmen or club women here either. That is, Green and ÖVP hide, hide themselves in truth at the most important point of today, and I can actually only agree to my previous speakers What you have been delivering in this Corona crisis, at present and in truth since spring, is actually to the shame of a foreigner. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[new calls to the ÖVP]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] I wonder how after Christmas, after New Year's. They have deeply failed at all levels in this crisis in Austria. As we have learned today, this withdrawaler, as far as police controls are concerned, was obviously once again a mistake of the authorities. I would like to mention one point that remains in this regulation, and you want to introduce the registration requirement in the gastronomy, although this has already been rejected by the Constitutional Court – even a small indication of where the journey is supposed to go. That is, when you go to the museum, when you go to the guest house, ÖVP and Greens want to control it constantly and completely. I can only say: We will resist until the last breath – I say that consciously. What you should say, I think, is: There are just these corona youngers of ÖVP and greens who approve of everything that has happened. In reality, however, what we are trying to do about the opposition is actually the struggle for the preservation of Austria. All we really are trying to do now is to get our Austria, because what you deliver as a government under the excuse of Corona is really a first-class funeral from Austria, as we all knew. One could now talk about the children's masquerades' obligation in schools to say a lot about this. I would just like to sum up once again the three main criticisms that we have expressed from the beginning. You have spread fear of death and panic with your policy. That was your strategy from the beginning and we have criticized it from the beginning. I can only tell you about a little example of the five-year-old daughter of a friend. This five-year-old daughter desperately asked her mother on the weekend: You Mutti, what do you think the Christian child won't have Corona? – This is a small sign of how far you have run it down to the little children, so they are afraid that the Christian child might have Corona and then not come. This is the result of nine months' policy of ÖVP and Greens! As I said, we could now talk about mass testing, we could also talk about the now over 300 000 positive tests. I would have liked to see Minister Anschober today – and I hope, of course, that he is not ill with Corona, perhaps he is just creepy, as many – but it is already a sign – look around – if you look at the most important point of this Parliament meeting, the last Parliament meeting this year. The high-pregnant Ms. Alma Zadić holds the flags high for the government – thank you! –, I’m hard to attack them because I’m always taking care of women, and high-pregnant women anyway. [[Rejoicing of Federal Minister Zadić]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] But I would have had a lot to tell today would have been the Federal Chancellor, the Vice chancellor or someone else there. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gerstl]] [[Green call for tender]] One would have been able to tell some about the failure of this government, about what you have felt to the population for months, and about civil rights. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Gerstl.]] These are just things you can't leave like that, but, as I said, you have a shield, in which case it's Mrs. Kollgegin Zadić, I'm going to take back. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pfurtscheller and Mr Disoski.]] A little note to the conclusion: Whether this government has learned something in the last nine months, including in its communication strategy, we will know relatively soon, as soon as it is January 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] I am curious now whether we are starting with counting the positive testers, infections and deaths as well as with all other diseases at zero or whether you continue your game and then keep counting the corona kills. In fact, we should start with zero in 2021, and I am already very excited about what the communication policy of this government will be. That will also be the sign of where the journey is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7967	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e7988	Mr President. High house! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! In this legislative package, with which one wanted to decide that the police are allowed to enter our private areas, apartments and houses without a reason, measures are also decided to prevent the spread of Covid-19. I would like to give three examples as one of the stakeholders who then have to implement these measures outside – in that case as mayor – and to show how absurd they are in part. Many other, many entrepreneurs, above all, are also affected by these measures. We have already had regulations this year that were unconstitutional, which have been repealed. Many regulations, however, are simply foreign to practice. Now, as a government, one has decided to give the operators of ski lifts the possibility, on 24 May. Lock on December. Obviously, however, one has not thought that there is also a need for a certain infrastructure, a ski hut in which you can go in because there is a toilet facility there. We run such a lift with us in our community: a small ski lift, where many children come. That means the children couldn't even go to the toilet. The lift is operated by us, the operator of the ski hut sells the maps for us. The ski hut operator could spend drinks there, but they should not be consumed, because under a regulation no beverages or food derived there may be consumed within 50 metres of the establishment. This is completely absurd, because if a skier comes with the backpack and brings himself a jause, he can stand in front of the ski hut. He is expected to eat this jause that was not bought there and to stay there. However, if you go into the ski hut and buy something at the inn, you have to leave 50 meters. Anyone who knows ski huts a little bit – colleagues Hörl is unfortunately not there – knows that if you get away from a ski hut 50 meters away, you can be in danger or even dead at all. You are standing in the middle of the ski slope, or you need wings because you fall into a abyss somewhere. So this 50-metre regulation is completely absurd. Second example: private households. We have a host with us in the village, and in many other villages there is also this village administrator. It is located in the middle of the village, all around it are houses. By applying this circular rule, it is noted that all the neighbours of the host fall into the regulation, so that they may not eat the food they obtain from the host in their own homes. The third example: We can now carry out mass testing as communities, you have invited us to do so. This will be done in my community tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Our municipal office is right next to the village administrator. I've been to him. for tomorrow and the day after, order a fee so that the people who carry out the tests with us, and we as a parish staff – my employees – are provided there. But we must not consume this in accordance with your law in the municipal office, because we are in the 50-metre environment. [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] So this is a completely absurd arrangement, as can be pointed out in these three examples. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm looking for They therefore simply abolish this scheme and submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8135	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at the end of the Committee on Health's agenda. [[10:09:46]] 7. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1125/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, Members and colleagues on a Federal Law on COVID-19-related financial grants to the Austrian Health Fund (ÖGK-COVID-19 Grant Act) (567 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 782/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, colleagues on package of measures on the Austrian health system according to COVID-19 (568 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 914/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in a federal law amending the Health Telecommunications Act 2012 (569 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8202	We now come to Agenda items 7 to 9, on which the debates will again be conducted under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kucher is the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8229	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know how to start now. Mrs. Federal Minister Zadić, it's a good thing you're here today as a Minister of Justice. What we are discussing here today, and if it did not happen in the middle of the largest health crisis in the Second Republic, you could actually just laugh at it, is the most embarrassing request, which, I believe, has been introduced here in Parliament in the last decades. [[Keeping an expression in height]] [[Ah-noise with the greens.]] This is a request from ÖVP and Greens, where one has said that it is in the middle of the crisis that one has not only forgotten the zeros in the budget and the signatures on the amendment request, but also that one has made the mistake of making the budget that half a billion euros are missing for the funding of the health system, for the hospitals, we have already discussed this, and for the Austrian health insurance fund. We have often warned, but you all know Gernot Blümel: He always believes he knows everything better and has not wanted to admit the mistake – that is, his personal access. Then it was said that sometime before Christmas one still has to repair it because it would be crazy to suddenly ensure the financing of the Austrian health insurance fund in the middle of the largest health crisis in the Second Republic. That would mean that there are reductions in benefits that people working in the health sector do not get the necessary money. ÖVP and Greens have then said that we can somehow fix it with each other – and then, you have to imagine, bring in an empty note in the Health Committee, on which a sentence stands. We have been discussing in the Health Committee for a long time and have said: As embarrassing as this joint request, it cannot be! – Amendment 1125/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Ralph Schallmeiner. That's a request, please print it out! This cannot be overcome by embarrassment: This is an empty note on which a sentence is on it. Then we said in the Health Committee: You can't do that crazy in the middle of a health crisis! – And then it said: We will certainly create a solution before Christmas to secure the Austrian health insurance fund! So today we stand there, have this embarrassing note in front of us, the empty note – really print it out, that's inconceivable! – and this request is withdrawn because there is no solution for the Austrian health system. In this Republic, there is money for every scramble, when it comes to Mr Kurz's large donors – we all got it – for everything there is money, but for the doctors, for ensuring the health system there is no money there – and then you don't even have respect for each other that you make the effort and make a proper request. Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger, look at this! Have you ever experienced such a embarrassing request? Sigi Maurer, you're here too. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Such a embarrassing request, an empty note! I mean, we're all getting well paid. It's our job to work out solutions with each other. Now one can be of a different opinion, but not to hack at all, to bring in an empty note, where nothing stands on it at all?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Wöginger: Should I..., all these... years?]] Werner, good you're here now. [[towards Vice-chanc Kogler]] You have to imagine that, please! Imagine that this is the most embarrassing request that has ever been discussed in Parliament, an empty request that is now being withdrawn. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wall]] The worst thing about it is: Now you could say, well, the government is already on the road in the Christmas holiday mood and you say it's just before Christmas and you haven't found time for it – but in the biggest health crisis of the Second Republic unable to ensure the financing and security of the ÖGK and health insurance in Austria, that's just crazy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] And the embarrassment is - - - - apologise, dear Gust! [[Abg. Wöger: That's...!]] Dear Gust, you are the clubman of the ÖVP and are not able to say in his own ranks that such a embarrassment is not brought in? [[Abg. Wöger: You weren't there at all!]] An empty note! An empty note! I mean, I'm sorry, we have the biggest health crisis in the Second Republic, and ÖVP and Greens bring in an empty note? Painful, embarrassing, embarrassing! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I will then be happy to pass on this note, the question is only: Is it a coincidence? – No, it’s not a coincidence because we all know, not for nothing, the ÖVP has collected 50 000 euros from private clinics and beauty clinics, and now the saving pressure comes. If the Austrian health insurance fund does not have the money, you have to save the money indirectly. That means reduction of performance, which will be easy, that is reality. This is not a coincidence at the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – Yes, then explain to us why the ÖVP has received the 50 000 euros! That's not clear to this day. [[Abg. Wöginger: Then ask the..., he has been there! It wasn't there at all!]] So saving pressure in the health sector, not funding today, but when it comes to your ads when it comes to 200 million euros, so that you can make strong advertising, already. [[Abg. Wöger: You're hiding behind your immunity...!]] If the work does not speak for itself, if you are not able to do good work, then you have to stop advertising. 200 million euros for ads, which are available but not a euro in the health field. And then you make the most embarrassing request in the history of this House. [[Keeping the term in height again]] It's really a drama just before Christmas. I'm really asking: Let's all learn about it! We're paid to do our job, but bring in an empty note, that's really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8377	The Minister of Health will be represented by Mr Vice-Chancellor, whom I warmly welcome. The honourable Member, Mr Schallmeiner, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8406	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It is always refreshing to listen to colleagues cakes, especially because he always stands out here with such an elan. The only thing that's always a little unpleasant is: He tells the same story over and over again about the alleged evil federal government, which does not want to release any money and in the end it wants to break the health care. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – So the plate hangs! I'm a record collector, and at home I know the record hangs. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In relation – something else that actually fits just as well; I took it with me today, because I knew that it will come again – you may know the film “And daily the Murmeltier” because this is exactly how the speeches of my colleague Kucher appear to me in the meantime. [[keeping a Blu-Ray disc of the respective film in height]] He tells us the same things every time and every time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Dear Philip, this is an early Christmas present for you, I took it with you. I'll give it to you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In that case it's the Blu-Ray version. I also have the DVD version for the FPÖ colleagues because, unfortunately, I have not been able to do it to God before, but always only pressure, compulsion, compulsion, compulsion; something else is obviously no longer available to you in the meantime, you see only the forced state everywhere – this record also hangs. [[keeping a DVD of the corresponding film in height]] There too I have to say: “And daily the Murmeltier greets”. For you, ladies and gentlemen, I have it on DVD. You're a little backward; you're probably better off with an old technology. Of course, she also likes to get my colleague Worm. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Nevertheless. What is it really about? – It is really a question of trying to end up with a solution to negotiate and therefore of bringing in a so-called carrier rocket, as it is so beautiful. [[Abg. Worm goes to the speaker's desk and points to the DVD that the speaker then gives him.]] [[Abg. Worm: Thank you! And something else comes in terms of content?]] – Come on, of course! Yeah, yeah, listen to me! Listen to me, you'll hear everything. You know, Mr. Worm, listen, that's always the thing. [[Abg. Worm: (on the way to his seat) I hear, yes, yes!]] We have tried to end up negotiating something that is a little more complex. Philip, ask colleagues Huss! [[towards Abg. Kucher]] Ask for what it looks like in the ÖGK! Ask how complex the whole situation is there! We would normally have just put a solution on the table, but we do not have it yet; we will submit it soon. However, there is a clear announcement – there is a clear announcement from the BMF, there is a clear announcement from the Ministry of Health – that these additional costs will be taken over, that we will take over the covid costs and that in the final effect the ÖGK will not be left alone as the largest health insurance in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] That's how it looks! You should also say that once you have been running the record all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8524	Mr Kaniak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8545	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate Members of Parliament! 60 billion euros – 60 billion euros is the sum that the Austrian Fiscal Council has declared to be a covid cost for 2020. And now I'm asking you: How much of this 60 billion euros does the Austrian Health Fund and thus all ASVG insured persons benefit directly? – Zero, because the government parties ÖVP and Greens seem to have been unable to reach an agreement to bring forward a legislative proposal that would financially secure the Austrian health insurance fund in these difficult times – a poverty certificate! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not only do the Austrian health insurance fund and the other social security funds have to be left completely in the rain during this difficult phase, but also for the hospitals and the countries which need to finance these hospitals. For weeks, in the context of the budget debates, we have pointed out that in the case of hospital financing, a minimum of 130 million euros in the budget is absolutely unbearable and exactly the opposite of what we need in this crisis. And what has the Federal Government done to this day? - Nothing. But you can all be quite calm. In internal discussions, there was the promise – and it is negotiated – that money will certainly still come. However, this does not help countries to plan and finance hospitals. This does not help our health system if it is necessary to provide patients with the best possible care at intensive care stations. This does not help us if, in this situation, we need to increase health care capacities to best deal with the infection. To do this, we need more money, and this money, dear government parties, you have to decide here in Parliament so that the countries with the money can also increase staff. That would be the procedure that would be necessary. What to do Instead, from the beginning of the crisis? – Without tendering, without reasonable price comparisons, even without appropriate quality criteria, you make overpriced purchases, started with the masks and protective equipment, which were first bought too expensive, then delivered too late and then re-examinated with quality failures, up to the overpriced acquisition of the antigen fast tests – at least by 30 to 50 percent for this quantity at that time – which one obviously will not need at all. Well, you can say that they have at least a expiry period of about two years before they become unusable. However, as will be the case with the vaccines for which we will spend 200 million euros, which can be shed away after five or six months, if not enough vaccination, no one has obviously considered this. The main thing is that the money will be poured out with both hands on the one hand, and where we would urgently need it, in our health system, for the Austrian health insurance fund, for the financing of hospitals, for a decent remuneration of the caregivers, especially in the hospitals, in the intensive medical care area, for the established doctors and pharmacists, who throughout the crisis maintain the supply in the settled area, there you have no money, there you will see nothing there. But 60 billion euros of new debt this year, 23 billion euros next year, we can decide everything loosely when it comes to you. Most importantly, you can freely distribute the money, only in the health professions, there's nothing to it. Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8587	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8608	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers and Seers! Before I come to the real issue, I would like to say one thing, and I think that I speak for a lot of women in this House: Col. Worm has a somewhat strange picture of women. That's what I really think - - Our Minister of Justice knows very well what her and her child are supposed to do, you certainly don't have to worry about it. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] She is one who knows exactly how to deal with herself and her body; like many other women, like all other women. So you can save yourself exactly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now to a few other things. I noticed that at the beginning of the pandemic there was a lot of materiality, a lot of common things in play. The sound has now become rougher, not to say, sometimes abominable. There are a lot of colleagues not only here, but also in the virtual area, who really are not worthy of this House. [[Abg. Loacker: Your work is abominable!]] Our work is what the Austrians expect of us, namely to keep the good health system in Austria running, and that is what happens. If you make yourself there now and say it was too expensive, that was too late: It was you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ who said: It's just a flu anyway, and the masks are good for nothing, because they don't use anything anyway! And now let's put it. You come here and say: It all came too late! - Are you all right?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Dear colleague Kucher, you were not involved in any negotiation between the ÖGK, the BMF and the Ministry of Health. These negotiations were conducted by our club members together with the representatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] There's probably a package with the ÖGK. There will be no burden on patients, nor will there be increases in contributions, and there will be no reduction in performance. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] The Federal Government is in favour of ensuring that the ÖGK remains fully capable and will not have any negative effects. In May there will be the final figures. And we don't abandon the hospitals either. Please Believe You don't have that nonsense! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The solidarity health system in Austria works, the only thing that threatens danger is that we are exploiting the capacities. It is still true that the high numbers of infections, the high numbers of hospitalized and those in intensive care stations are of great concern to us. What we can do about it is, on the one hand, the package of measures, and I ask everyone to comply with the measures. There will be reliefs about Christmas holidays so that it is possible to meet the family. We know it's hard. It's hard for each of us. Everyone would like to celebrate with everyone who is at your heart. Last week in the main committee, I asked colleagues Hofer if he could remember his school director at the HTL in Eisenstadt. He could do it very well. This teacher and school director has passed away from Covid, like more than 4,000 people in Austria, and I hope to express our sympathy to all of us family and friends. I hope that the figures will not continue to grow exponentially in the future and that our health system will remain so viable to protect the health of Austrians and of all the people who live here. That's my request: Look at yourself, look at all the others, stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8685	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8706	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Gaby Schwarz is the pleasant voice that still warms up your pillow on the sales trip while you are being driven into the dark by the government. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] This government just slept everything. The Covid crisis has revealed all the weaknesses that Austrian health care has had for a very long time, including the catastrophic data situation. We needed months to find out how many hospital beds there are at all and how many of them are intensive beds and how many breathing equipment we have and in which hospitals they are. It took months! In the past nine months, the Austrians have been tested a thousand times, now with antigen tests, but often also with PCR tests. Again yesterday, in a media report, we read that people have been double-counted during testing, that the statistics are not right because they do not do totally banal things because, for example, a PCR test is not recorded in Elga. If you did, such double counting would be easily avoidable. This would have another advantage: If PCR tests were detected in Elga, one also knew who has the disease behind him, who has developed an immunization. This would help to prioritize the vaccines, for whoever has this immunization does not need to be given priority in time. It is also not yet clear how the corona vaccinations work when someone has already overcome the disease and developed antibodies. What's that all about? It is therefore provisional, I would say, for the sake of caution, not to vaccinate people who have already overcome the disease. To document all of this safely, however, it would have been important to record the covid tests in Elga. We have tabled a legislative proposal on this, and we have found 100 arguments why this is not possible. The fact that laboratories are now being tested, tested, tested and transferred into parallel systems and that there are constant errors in recording, it doesn't matter. It's not about quality, it's about the government propaganda, it's about the beautiful words that my colleague Schwarz brings on the stage so well, but I'm going to get together again: PCR tests are included in Elga.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8752	Member Smolle has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8774	Mr. President! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very, very strong health system in Austria – I would say – and we also have a request to further strengthen it, and that is what is happening. There is a clear commitment that the legally binding subsidies from the federal government to the health care institutions are increased and compensated accordingly, which is part of the financial compensation negotiations. There is a clear commitment that the Austrian Health Fund will be fully compensated for the income losses it has this year, which, thanks to the many aid measures, will probably be somewhat lower than sometimes feared in the Delta, and will enable it to be proactive in the coming year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And whatever happens in another agenda item is a suspension for the doctors in the cash medical field who have had their ordination open throughout the year for our patients. I would also like to thank them very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But the most important thing we can and must do to strengthen our health system is to control the pandemic, in front of the gates of our health system. This requires joint effort and solidarity. If I allow the last months to happen, where most of the health measures have been rejected by the FPÖ in particular, or, like the masks, have been ridiculed, where every attempt at serious information about the existing risk and the risk of a second wave has been taken as a panic, I really must appeal that we now have to take a lead. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Brückl.]] Recently it was said that the second wave would be tested. Covid-19 has now become the second most common cause of death in Europe after cardiovascular disease. As a doctor and out of medical care, I now say something completely unpolitical: We are in a situation where we must act together. Take note of the reality: We have a pandemic. We still have a few difficult weeks ahead of us, and I can tell you one thing: There will then be a time when you can change your political change without endangering human life.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8846	Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified to the European Parliament and to the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e8867	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! One can, of course, respond humorously to the criticism of Mr Schallmeiner, but one can again appeal to the joint, but now quite honestly: We had five carrier missiles in the Health Committee – this is quite a political use. In the case of three carrier missiles, I say, they also brought something into the committee, but at the beginning it was clear that nothing was coming. Now we've said: Let's put them off the agenda. You have the time to do something more. It's zero time pressure behind that, you can do something now. – It was decided against what led to the embarrassment that we in the committee then discussed the fact that a false German writing is contained in these said support missiles, because you do not even know how to make contributions! That's what we've discussed, and then you've postponed it yourself. Then there is a second request, and it will not be better if one expresses it out of Parliament's correspondence – because in Parliament's correspondence the request looks that way. [[Keeping a document in height]] This is a new law, a new Covid law with a single paragraph that says: “This federal law enters into force at the end of the day of its rallying.” – And then here becomes here The appeal is now addressed to us, and we like to work together.- Oh, my God! – What are we supposed to do together? What are we to discuss? Over the 31st? Or on the question: Let's take the 31st. July? What is the basis for such a discussion? Now quite honestly: We have set ourselves rules in this House. This also concerns, among other things, the question of how we deal with the budget. We have a budget process, and we have therefore said that it needs an impact assessment. Where are all these instruments that we have given ourselves? You spend the money with the pot, so that no one knows who to pay it, and nowhere stands what you want to achieve with it! – There are rules of play in this House, which we have given each other together, and we would expect that the common rules will always be put in the foreground here, that we will also stick to these rules together! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Worm.]] Because the situation in hospitals and health care is really dramatic at the moment, I can make the following request from the SPÖ: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be necessary and a concrete step towards correcting these health consequences. There are also two other requests from the opposition, which are rejected by you, which would include quite meaningful measures. One could also go into something like that – I think that would have deserved these opposition requests. As has been said, you are not even prepared to withdraw this request at the sitting. What is happening here in plenary today is that we have to refer back to the request that you could have saved this Blamage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9026	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9050	Mr President. Dear Mr. Health Vice-Cancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Now it is said to last until there is finally the long-awaited vaccination. Until then, unfortunately, we must continue to stand on the brake. Prof. Wenisch, the well-known infectiologist, has called the vaccination a game changer. I see it that way. The pandemic will be significantly weakened by vaccination within a few months, but it also depends on how many can be vaccinated. More than 50 percent would be very good, but this is an ambitious goal. If we do, the virus runs into the dead end and the pandemic can be stopped, which we all hope for. However, we also need to prepare the next vaccinations in good communication. [[Abg. Belakovich:... PR-Budget...!]] We must inform people carefully, clearly and transparently, take the uncertainty and address their legitimate concerns and fears. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] We must also not allow the social media to leave the respondents with their partly absurd arguments. I personally see myself as a immutator. I will have myself vaccinated as soon as possible, but – for the first hundredth time –: There will be no vaccination obligation, even if some do not believe it. We'd like to convince. [[Abg. Belakovich: The head of state Stelzer...!]] The upcoming vaccines must be safe and effective, and only then will they be authorised. However, we can rely on the European Medicines Authority. I would like to say the following about side effects, because this is always mixed: The side effects must be distinguished between vaccinations and complications. Reactions may occur in all vaccinations. These include pain at the injection site, tiredness, mild fever, all for a short time for one to two days. Covid vaccines show a high level of protection, between 70 and 90 percent, i.e. these vaccines can occur and will also occur. But that only shows that the immune system is responding, and that is positive. The imprecations are in themselves harmless, and serious complications that we fear have not yet occurred in the studies. [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true! – Which studies?]] But we have a special situation at Covid-19 due to the pandemic. It would be good to immunize as many as possible as possible, and there we need doctors as well. In addition to the qualified health and care staff, a Sanitary Vaccination on a medical arrangement and under medical supervision can now also be carried out – due to a change in the law on health care. Ladies and gentlemen! We are well equipped for the upcoming vaccinations. We create conditions for as fast and broad application as possible. But what we need is cohesion and solidarity, and this is my Christmas wish on the last plenary day before Christmas. So I would like to conclude with a statement from our Federal President: “Keep on paying attention, let us stay vigilant. Let’s stay human.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9116	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9138	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to say a few words on the question of the financial security of the Austrian health insurance fund. Mr Kucher, with all appreciation: What you're doing here is the absolute uncertainty of the population. That's totally unnecessary! [[Intrusion of a document holding the height of the document. Cuckoo.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You were there at no single meeting, and you say here in front of the running camera that everything is at risk that the health insurance fund cannot be financed, so to speak, and that there are limitations on benefits. That is totally unscrupulous and simply not right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Vogl has at least so much seriousness that he goes here and says that it is not unusual for applications to be submitted, which will then be amended. We call that in the technical jargon carrier rockets. I can pick you out of your time of government – we still have it –: You can bring these into your club with the disk rest, so many of us used to have! [[New call for tender of a document to be kept up-to-date. Cuckoo.]] So don't come here to act like you've never done that before! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] And once again talk to at least ÖGK-Obmann Huss, who understands at least, he knows himself! [[Abg. Cake:... five years... peaks!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Don't stand here and tell anything! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] There will be no restriction on performance. There will be no cuts in this area. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] There will be no increase in contributions. We've confirmed this x-time. You know why we're still waiting? – Because thanks to God the financial situation at the ÖGK is much better developed than it was expected a few weeks ago. And I also tell you why the short work there secures the means and because through the lockdowns it naturally results in shifts of treatments and operations. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, because people don't get treatment anymore!]] In other words, we have secured revenue well and in many areas less expenditure. That's why the numbers are developing better. [[Deputies Hafenecker and Belakovich: People die of it!]] – Can you listen too? We listen to you too. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There is a reserve of 1.2 billion euros in the ÖGK, which is called a performance deposit. It is necessary to say that to the population: Our health system is secure, the finances are secured for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] We will look next year at what the billing actually brings; and if there are Covid-related losses, then we will compensate for them. But we do that when we have the bill we are waiting for, because the year is not yet over. All of this is guaranteed in this country anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] We are proud of our health system. – Take note of this too!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9277	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Would the rapporteurs like a final word? - That's not the case. [[10:41:40]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 9
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9301	We shall proceed to the postponement of the vote. I can ask the club members if the vote can take place. - That's the case. First, vote on the present referral request for agenda item 7. I shall vote on the request to refer Amendment No 1125/A to the Committee on Health and Social Affairs by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmein, Mr Covid-19. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up to do so in order to have a corresponding sign. – That is unanimous. The vote on the motion for a resolution itself and on the motion for a resolution tabled to that effect will be taken at the same time. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law amending the Drugs Act, together with the title and receipt in 561 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this, I ask him to set a corresponding sign. – That too is the majority. Therefore, the draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. Agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the federal law to cover the need to combat the Covid-19-Pandemie empowerment on federal assets, including title and receipt in 562 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this at third reading, I ask him to give a sign. – This too is the majority, and this draft law has also been adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kollross, colleagues and others on 'Don't let down the common position: Replacement of the costs of carrying out mass tests’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law, which amends the 1950 Epidemic Act, the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas and the Sanitary Law, into 563 of the Supplements. To this end, Members of the European Parliament have tabled an additional amendment and amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 1 to 3. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their consent to this. - That's the majority. We'll come to the third reading. Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this, I would like to ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues, on'regular COVID-19 tests in old-age, nursing homes, mobile care and teaching staff'. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft COVID-19 Act, in 564 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, tabled an amendment and amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary and amending proposals. I shall proceed in this sense. The vote on the amendment and amendment tabled by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, on paragraph 1 and the insertion of new points 2a and 3a. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the same voting behaviour; that is the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are also at the third reading to present a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. I come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on the removal of non-reality 50 metres away from establishments for the consumption of beverages and food acquired there. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 565 of the supplements. Whoever does this, may do so with a sign of faith. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Agenda item 6: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 566 of the supplements. Whoever does this, may do so with a sign of consent. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 568 of the supplements. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 569 of the supplements. Whoever does this, please do so with a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. [[10:47:11]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1022/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Markus Vogl, Peter Wurm, colleagues on Investbudget VKI (499 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment 1025/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Markus Vogl, colleagues on vouchers from airlines and tour operators due to the Covid-19 crisis (500 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9600	We now come to Agenda items 10 and 11 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified to the European Parliament and to the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9628	The first is two requests from me, both of which are rejected. One refers to the fact that the VKI has been chronically malnourished in recent years. We've managed to get some basic funding from the VKI. We also know, however, that the tasks that exist in the VKI to create the leap into modern times, into modern times, are only feasible if you provide additional investment resources. That would have meant our request, but he is unfortunately rejected by God. The second request refers to the practice that many have received vouchers from the airlines at once in spite of applicable law in the Corona crisis and now do not know exactly how to deal with them. What happened in the committee? – It was said: There is a right to do nothing at all! However, I should like to remind you that yesterday the government decided to provide insolvency protection for travel agencies, although there is also the right to do so. It is therefore seen that, in practice, it is sometimes necessary to intervene despite applicable law. We believe that for people who have received vouchers, where they do not know what their real rights are and how to deal with them, because they are not transferable and an expiry date on them, it would be good to make a Lex Corona for affected consumers. – To all those who sit at home today, watch, hold a voucher of an airline in their hands, and do not know how to handle it: We have made a proposal, but he is unfortunately rejected by God. I can also use this opportunity today to say goodbye to the House. After seven years in the House, I am allowed to give my last speech here today, as I can switch to the local policy of my hometown. It is the most beautiful city in Central Europe! Now one or the other is going to think about it because it might be two that are in question – it's Steyr. [[Call the SPÖ:Linz!]] Steyr is the most beautiful city in Central Europe, and I can switch to local politics there. Of course, it was seven very moving years that I was able to experience in different roles. I may perhaps come to the general level to speak: Democracy, as we live it here today, is something that lives by exchange. I think we have managed in the last seven years to develop this democracy. If we look at the Committee of Inquiry, which today is a minority right, we see, I believe, a meaningful development of our democratic instruments. Yesterday we were allowed to experience that MEPs now have a right to speak in this House. In this way, I believe, we are trying to strengthen the link between the European Parliament and the national parliaments. At a time when we realize that we are often very fast with national solutions, it is important to promote this cohesion. That is what has always been particularly important to me in my work here in Parliament: to promote this exchange and this discourse. [[General condolences.]] Democracy is not static, but democracy must develop. Democracy lives by this exchange that we maintain here. I wish you, I wish you, I wish we could succeed in this exchange, this discourse in the future. I also wish that the new High House – if the repatriation is in place – would support this discussing process further. I am a great admirer of the architecture of the old Parliament building because it is trying to express exactly this: this necessary cooperation, at the same time, of course, the differences that separate us. I think democracy is exactly that: that we are trying to resolve these differences that separate us from the discourse. Sometimes we can do better, sometimes we may not succeed so well. I certainly wish everyone that the discourse will succeed in the future. I wish you all every success in the sense of Austria, in the sense of the population of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9667	Mr Vogl, we wish you, you heard it in applause, all right in your new field of activity! I am glad that you return to the second most beautiful city in Central Europe – the most beautiful is my home town, right next to Steyr – you will obviously become mayor there. I've been mayor, it's a beautiful office. I would like to congratulate you and thank you for your contributions, your scored contributions, and at the end of the day, in such a way that you have been able to discuss very well and outside of official debates. It's a parliamentarian. You were certainly a very special one in this Parliament, and therefore a warm thank you and all the good for your further political life course! [[General condolences.]] Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9698	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Markus Vogl, spokesperson of the SPÖ, was the first Member to come to me at the first meeting. He said to me: If you need something about consumer protection, I'm here, and as far as VKI is concerned, we have to create something common. – I believe that we are on a good path. We have passed a VKI financing law for this year, and the budget of the VKI is about a quarter of a million euros bigger than last year. VKI goes digital: In 2018, there was the offensive to equip the VKI digitally. Then there was a black and blue deletion of this post. The VKI is currently being evaluated and we look together at what important points need to be implemented. One thing is clear: Consumer protection only works with the necessary consumer protection facilities. Without VKI, consumer protection is not imaginable. That is, if we have problems traveling, if we have problems because we don't understand any ingredients, because the small print of the Terms and Conditions somehow seems funny, then the VKI is there. In the event of an emergency, they also complain, with a success rate of 90 percent. That is, the VKI is fighting the black sheep, and that is also good. Today the subject of travel industry and vouchers was addressed. No one who booked a flight must, if he cannot take it, accept a voucher, for which there is a legal basis. But the circle closes: How should consumers know? - You know that because the VKI informs about this, and for that there are our good, recognized consulting facilities. Of course, there is a need to take control of money, and we are in the best way to ensure medium-term funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9737	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9758	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As part of the budget meeting, I was already allowed to highlight the special achievements of the VKI. The ladies and gentlemen of the VKI have been doing excellent work for years and decades. However, the VKI has always worked and acted on the brink of its own financial viability. Minister Anschober promised us for 2021 that there would be a VKI financing law that would then allow the VKI to plan over a longer period of time. That is desirable, we can join him. This financing law, however, only regulates the continuation of the VKI in its present form, i.e. the state of the state if you want to, and this also confirms the managing director of the VKI, Mr Hermann. He says: This serves to maintain, more is not inside. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really necessary to keep up to date when the state of the art is in line with the current state of the art. Many tests are bound to test equipment or can be processed accelerated by modern computer. But in recent years there has been a need for resurgence. That is why we have tabled a joint request from FPÖ and SPÖ for an investment budget for the VKI, which is to cover at least EUR 500 000 – EUR 500 000, once within two years. The project is intended to serve digitization so that the outstanding activity can be prepared and presented accordingly. Unfortunately, the government parties could not join this. That is completely incomprehensible to me! Turquoises and greens with thick weaned pants are just around when it was about getting themselves an advertising of more than 200 million euros for four years. There was a donation, there was still the motto: ‘It costs what it wants.’ However, when it comes to modernising consumer protection, they are suddenly reduced to XS slimfit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Deputies of the Government! Act on your members of your government, warn them to be economical when it comes to marketing! Shortfalls You have this inaccurately high budget for your own honor’, which applies only to self-consecration and the media’s favor! Look You don't look at yourself, but look at the citizens and support the VKI!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9802	Mrs Scheucher-Pichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9823	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! We are not looking at the citizens, Mr colleague, and we are also looking at the VKI. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The VKI, the consumer information association, has now proved, in this difficult period of the pandemic, that it is also currently responding to the situations, and we know: He advises, he informs, he helps, he tests. Once again, I would like to thank the management, all the employees, but also all the experts who are constantly being added within the VKI, on behalf of the ÖVP Group for their competent work. A big thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The 2021 budget, ladies and gentlemen, corresponds to what has been registered by the Management Board, and I know that Mr Vogl, whom I too wish well, and Mr Wurt are dedicated consumer protectionists. I know that, but the request is not necessary at the moment. You know that, too, we talked about it in committee. The Federal Minister has clearly said that he is waiting for the evaluation and will do everything he can to improve consumer protection and, of course, will ensure the corresponding budget. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Ries, this has been clearly discussed. Therefore, I think we are waiting for this evaluation! I think it is perfectly logical that we first look at what the evaluation is doing and then put in place the appropriate measures. It has already been mentioned by Mr Ries: Much is planned – a new office equipment, new computer, the customer portal is to be expanded and much more. I think we all have a common goal, an organisational reform and also an upgrade to the Consumer Information Association. I think that is what we need very urgently, and this is what the citizens also want, and we also stand by our group. This will also create new opportunities for action, for example, because we are now also integrated into the European consumer network. This too is a very important aspect that will further strengthen the VKI. I would just like to mention a few more facts to show how important the work of the VKI is. In 2019, around 59 000 initial consultations were carried out, which is a considerable number. In 70 percent of cases, a positive, rapid out-of-court solution could be achieved. 4 200 people have taken the advice from online, i.e. an instruction on self-help. Of course we will expand this, digitalization is progressing. 45 percent of the requests – a significant number of them too – concerned general consumer law, and further focus is on financial services. Above all, it is important and very positive to note that many people address the VKI before entering into a contract. That is, the preventive approach is increasing, and that is what we all want. It is particularly interesting and also very positive that 90 percent of the issues in the interests of the consumer could be dealt with positively in legal matters. I think that too is a great number. Ladies and gentlemen, we talked about food waste late at night. I should like to make one more point, because last time we discussed this in the Committee on Consumer Affairs. Although the request of the government parties did not find a majority yesterday, I have heard that all groups are really voting against food waste. I think we have to do everything we can to get more active. The VKI also registers an ever-increasing interest in sustainable food handling. It is gratifying that around three-quarters of Austrian food waste is considered a serious issue. Around 1 million tonnes of edible foods are discarded per year, which includes food production, food production and food production. Consumer consumption, gastronomy, trade, all sectors involved. So we have to do something about it. I would like to end with a positive example. Yesterday it was said that the work of the charitative organizations in the field is just a drop on the hot stone. However, it is a very important part of whether these are the Soma social markets, the tables or many regional projects where food is sold and distributed, where people spend thousands of volunteer hours to organize it all. I think this is very important. We also need to do even more in schools and kindergartens in the direction of raising awareness. I mention a positive example from my hometown of Klagenfurt, where the bakery of Taumberger has for many years provided its pastries and snacks, which it has left at 5 p.m. and will probably no longer sell, to the children's town of Klagenfurt, where they are always accepted with great pleasure. This is a great example that I call substitute for many, many others. Ladies and gentlemen, once again a great thank you to all those who are involved in the field, a thank you to the VKI! We will take the appropriate budgetary safeguards for the CCI in good time, as the Minister of State, whom I wish from this point of view, carried out in committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9907	Next speaker: Mrs Corinna Scharzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9929	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I can talk about two different requests in two minutes today. This is about 500 000 euros more for the VKI. Our goal was to secure the VKI in the long term, and we did that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Worm: One year, Mrs. Colleague! A year is not long-term!]] – Mr Wurm, with all appreciation: I am well aware that you are a very stable politician, and I am far from even trying to convert you in your opinion, from time to time you shoot around the Eizerl beyond the goal. We've secured the VKI in the long term, and that's good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second is the topic around the vouchers of the tour operators. There are two options, there are the vouchers and there is the cash, and each consumer has the free choice. Well, and you can't hold the voucher if you don't want the voucher, but the cash. I believe that it is reasonable for every powerful citizen in Austria to make this decision free of charge. The legal situation is at least undisputed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In the sense that many things have already been said, only not yet by everyone, I may close. I should also like to take the opportunity to wish you, Mr Vogl, all the necessary good in your further way of life in local policy. I can take the opportunity to wish you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the listeners at home in front of the screens a beautiful Christmas party. Stay healthy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e9983	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can come to the vote immediately. - Then I'll go like that. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 499 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 500 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. [[11:08:20]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Markus Koza, colleagues in a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the General Pension Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Self-Employed Social Insurance Act (519 d.b.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 14. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 497/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act and the Civil Health and Accidental Insurance Act (520 d.a.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1070/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (521 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 17. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1082/A(E) by Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, on the right to special care time for members of the Schwerkranken (526, e.g.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 974/A(E) by Mrs Erwin Angerer, colleagues on Second Lockdown – Making planning security for the economy (529 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e10132	We are now going to the agenda items 12 to 18, on which the debates will be held under one. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mr Josef Muchich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e10165	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak on item 12 on the amendments to pensions and luxury pensions. I remember exactly 16 days ago, on 26. In November, a pension robbery was decided here in the House by the government parties ÖVP and Greens. On the one hand, all pensions which reached 540 contribution months were taken with 2022 freedom of deduction, on the other hand, with the aliquotation of the first pension adjustment from 2020/2021, pension reductions for more than 100 000 people entering the pension were also decided by you. What you have not decided is a lid at the luxury pensions. While workers, farmers and small self-employed people have received a pension cover of 35 euros, you have clearly approved the 1.5 percent inflation tax at the luxury pensions. These pensions would have increased by 150 euros to 500 euros per month more than those covered by 35 euros. The cry and outrage were great, and yes, the opposition has rightly spoken with one voice and said: That's just unfair, people don't understand it out there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also the many addresses, the many emails you received then, have moved you to make a change, a change for which we have received an amendment that was not quite the yellow of the egg again. Once again, people with multiple pensions over 10 000 euros per month would have received twice the 35 euros. Again it was the opposition that said: You can't be serious! I am therefore particularly grateful to my club experts, especially Dr Gabi Kotzegger, who succeeded in finding a solution. So today we can decide together a cap of only 35 euros for this increase in luxury pensions. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, what is still available on other topics today in the luxury pensions of unfairness: at the discount-free pension after 45 working years, but also in the reduction of pensions due to aliquotation from 2021. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you want fair pensions across all professional groups in Austria, regardless of what types they are, then you agree to our motion for a resolution! Finally, one sentence: Markus Vogl, all right, thank you for your great work with us in the club and in the committees! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e10364	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e10389	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I am bringing in an amendment tabled by Mrs Wöginger, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Koza, Mr Schwarz, Mr Kucher, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Cot, on the draft law in the report of the Committee on Social Security and Social Security, on the application 1105/A concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the General Pension Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Self-Employed Social Insurance Act. The application has already been distributed and has also been sent to the clubs. Let me briefly make a few comments on this request: This proposal includes four measures to help us cope with the social, economic and health consequences of the Covid-19 crisis. It also includes the limitation of special or luxury pensions as required and desired by many sides and is necessary for reasons of justice. The first point: Whoever receives transitional money in an AMS education measure will no longer be charged with emergency aid. As a result, thousands of people affected will receive the increase in the number of unemployed in December. I think that this is a very important step for these groups, and it is important to ensure that a social crisis is prevented in the best possible way for these people. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wöger.]] Another point: The possibility of payment of social security contributions and interest payments for businesses should be extended if corporate liquidity is at risk. With this, we want to avoid insolvency as much as possible and give companies the opportunity to start better after the covid crisis. Previously, it was regretted that the health system was supposed to be starved – no, that is not the case! Health insurance will take over the cost of the two-part Covid-19 vaccination – an essential step in getting out of the health crisis – and the costs will be replaced by the social insurance from the COVID-19 crisis management fund. [[Congratulations with the Greens and the Deputies Wöginger and Pöttinger.]] Finally, there is still a cover for the increase in luxury pensions of 35 euros and that statutory pension increases must be charged to this amount. This is an important measure, because we want to strengthen small, low pensions in the crisis – and we do not want luxury pensions to grow up in this crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: That sounded different in the committee!]] With these changes, a practical and pragmatic solution has been found, which is actually feasible and is intended to bring what we all really want. In this sense, I would ask for as broad a consent as possible. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[11:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e10928	The amendment is distributed to all Members, it has been explained in the broad guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann August Wöginger. [[Call at the ÖVP – in the direction of the telephoning Fig. Wöginger –:Gust]] – Mr Klubobmann!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e10960	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to focus briefly on the issue of luxury pensions, which we can now solve by a broad majority here. I would also like to explain why it took some time: It is a question of administrative feasibility. This has been carried out in recent years, with a very high burden on employees at the pension insurance institution. Why? – Because pensions have to be combined, i.e. statutory pensions according to the ASVG, for farmers or traders and those coming from chambers or social security companies. 30,000 are the number, and this had to be manually brought together so that one could cover it. Especially in times like this, we did not want to do this to employees in social insurance and especially in pension insurance. That's why it took longer, that's why. We respect, appreciate and recognize what the employees are doing there and do not want to give them additional administration tasks. I would like to stress this so that this is clearly stated once. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We've found a solution now, and that wasn't that easy. The question was which is now the place in which the account of statutory pensions takes place. This is right now with the facilities that pay out these supplementary pensions. There is this lid with 35 euros, just like we did with all the other statutory pensions, and so to speak, this pension is charged. So, in total, I think that's a good, well-tolerable solution. No one has been interested in providing such a luxury board with other increases, we do not, the Greens not and actually no one here in this room – no, because we do not want it because it is unfair and because it is not necessary in this area. That is why we are going to do this now, and I would ask you to recognise a parliamentary process, as it is so often called for. This, I believe, is an example of how we bring together a good solution in this area with a lot of innovation, a lot of thought and expertise. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a request in connection with the tests. This amendment will take first, preparatory measures for vaccination. From this point of view, I would like to appeal that the people are involved in the tests that are now taking place in some federal states, because this brings a great deal of security and because it is possible to interrupt infection chains and thus prevent a lot of suffering. I appeal to the people and ask them to participate in these tests.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11008	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11030	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It is gratifying that there is now this oneness to cover also the really fat pensions, but in the Committee it has sounded very different. My group has tabled the request to draw up such a cover, which is also outside social security, and to sum up various references. Mr Koza has kept me from the green side: That's not possible, it's an incredibly high administrative burden, you can't do that. Mr Pöttinger told me that a disproportionately high effort would be involved in costing more than saving it. The savings for taxpayers amount to more than 200 million euros. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Worm.]] That this entails such an administrative burden, I can't imagine. Rather, you should consider whether you do not freeze such pensions in principle and say: If a 10 000, 15 000, 20 000 euros pension, it will no longer need an increase at all. She can stay as high as she used to be. I'm missing the ambition. It's always talking big: We would like to do something about the luxury pensions, but if it comes to it, you have to do terror, you have to see that you start a newspaper article in the “Kronen Zeitung” so that you can actually get started. If we had not made this uprising as an opposition, then the luxury pensions would have flooded through and the stakeholders would have received 200, 300 euros in addition. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to take the opportunity to thank Mr Vogl for the good cooperation we also had as a Klubordner when we met a little earlier in the morning. I wish you all the best for your new task, an exciting time and success in everything you do.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11084	Next speaker: Mrs Barbara Neßler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11108	Madam President. Estimated vice chancellor! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! On the application for the Mother Protection Act, which we also decide today: Thus we respond to the latest medical findings such as the Austrian Society of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, which say that in advanced pregnancy a covid-19 disease could be more severe, and thus take the protective measures for pregnant women. This request is also so important because many pregnant women, especially in careers with a lot of body contact, may have special concerns and fears to infect themselves with the corona virus. We must take these concerns seriously, otherwise they can lead to an emotional burden that can have a negative effect on pregnancy. Employers must first examine whether it is possible for pregnant women to engage in their work with a minimum distance and without contact with the body, for example in the home office or elsewhere. This is not possible, for example, in cosmetic women or in physiotherapists. So we have women for all from the 14th century onwards. A good solution was found for pregnancy week. We assume that about 4 500 pregnant women benefit from this scheme. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So we create a regulation that protects health, reduces stress and supports employers in addition, so everyone benefits. It is therefore all the more incomprehensible to me that NEOS was the only group in the committee to vote against. Maybe it's because: Mr Loacker, you have claimed that the time limit for the provision is 31. ==References====External links==* Official website It is only in March that a week of pregnancy will be reached, only a very short exemption will have to go back to work at the beginning of April. – Of course, that's not right. Paragraph 6 states that the scheme applies to: All of them prior to the 31st century. In March, there was a right to exemption, which continued to be valid. If you read this request again, you may be able to get through to agree to it. Finally, Mr Worm, what I would like to say, because you have referred to our Minister for Justice: Don't worry! Pregnant women are not ill, but pregnant women are simply pregnant. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, Mr. Markus. [[towards Abg. Vogl]] I wish you all the best for your further career.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11172	Mrs. Christine Aschbacher has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11193	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased with the request made by Mr Neßler, whom we have decided on the part of the Government in the Council of Ministers in advance, because it is about ensuring the highest protection for our pregnant women, for those who become mothers, especially where the distance cannot be met. The becoming mothers bring new lives into the world, and that is the highest good there is. In this respect, it is important for me, as Minister of Labour and Family, to say that there is no increased risk if the protective measures can be respected: the 1-meter distance, the hygiene measures or the wearing of the oral nose protection. However, for situations where the minimum distance cannot be met, we have taken precautions, especially due to the recent findings from the medical field, such as those of the OEGGG. As long as there is no vaccine yet, we want to act on the basis of these findings and go on track. The observations are evident in advanced pregnancy, i.e. from the third month onwards. In this respect, it is important that we allow an exemption claim for pregnant women in direct physical contact. These are hairdressers, stylists, but also physiotherapists, if they are directly involved in elementary pedagogy, for example, tattoos or masseurs. For example, if you only have to contact at the door – this may take 1 or 2 minutes – this is not possible. It is important, however, that we have made it possible to secure this area, which is why I ask for broad approval today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] How does the solution look? – The solution looks to the effect that the measure will enter into force at the end of the call and that the employee will be paid at the same time up to the maximum basis of assessment. In conclusion, perhaps: It concerns about 4,500 mothers in body-oriented occupations. The cost of the payment is around 10 million euros per month, which we invest in our future, in the safety of our young families. In this sense, I would like to thank all the mothers who are becoming, but also the fathers, that is to say, the future families that are already born with pregnancy. wishes a lot of health, good endurance and in the future a lot of joy with their children! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11247	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11272	Mrs. Minister! High house! Madam President. You were just talking about all the pregnant women you're talking about. We also know that it is no longer only about body contact when it comes to preventive protection for pregnant women in the Covid-19 crisis, but also about the latest findings – you have mentioned this yourself – that it is also about the risk of infection. We believe that it is not always possible for women in trade or in production to keep the distance that should be kept to customers. Since it takes a little longer, I would like to use one more way to make an amendment that we do not stand half way so that we really do not have these risk groups regarding Covid – pregnancy, otherwise, of course, is not a disease, that is quite clear – as secure as they belong to. We have tried this since March, at that time we had a study which we repeatedly brought to the tapet, which the Minister of Health could not or did not want to acknowledge. Now there are recent findings: In the case of advanced pregnancy – you just mentioned it – the risk of a pregnancy as a pregnant woman is increasing in the intensive care unit. However, it must also be possible for a trader or for women in industry to be protected in a preventive way. I therefore propose an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] It would only complete that preventive protection of pregnant women will be extended to all groups that have contact with people. You have now talked very intensively about pregnancy, also about what the beautiful means: We have on our side a truly happy Minister of Justice who works here until the last day. This should also apply to women who are traded in production. [[Abg. Loacker:...not that she works!]] I believe it is very important that the ban on employment in this crisis should be applied to all mothers becoming mothers, not just a group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11382	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11415	Madam President. Dear Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Yes, the pandemic is omnipresent and, of course, this virus presents us with new challenges. The fact is that at the beginning of this crisis, of course, we did not really know about many things and that we always learn to do so. So was the situation of pregnant women. There are more recent findings now, and the government is now also improving accordingly that it is possible to grant exemption. The Minister has already done so, and I ask the Members of the House to agree with it accordingly. However, I would like to comment briefly on two other requests. This is the application 1083/A by the colleague Heinisch-Hosek regarding contract-law adjustment law. This is a special care law when schools provide care due to closures. Mr Hosek, you know that we have a social partners agreement in this area, which we have already decided on 20 November in the National Council. The content of this social security scheme is known to us all, and in reality you disagree with your request for this social partners agreement. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... this is quite different...!]] That is why we have and will therefore also reject this request. It is similar in application 1082/A, with regard to the special care claim for members of the common household of pedigrees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] - Right! The fact is that we have a right to special care time when a disability facility is closed or the care of a person with disabilities is voluntary at home or the care and care of a person in need of care or the personal assistance of people with disabilities is lacking. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... relatives! ... seriously ill people!]] For the care of family members regardless of Covid-19, the care exemption is already provided for in § 16 of the Holiday Law or the Care Care Care Carence according to § 14c contract law-Adaptation Act and § 21c Bundespflegegeldsgesetz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That is why we also reject this request. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a personal word to Mr Vogl. I don't think he's here right now – ah, yeah. Mr Vogl, you were a really good colleague in the Committee. I know and I always appreciated your contributions, they were scored and were mainly carried by material depth. To wish you were to experience all the best in your further activity as mayor is clear, but I also say one thing: You're gonna be missing here!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11475	Next speaker: Mrs Fiona Vierde. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11496	Madam President. High house! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! This last Social and Health Committee, as Mr Kaniak mentioned at the beginning of this sitting, has nothing to do with parliamentaryism. The Health Committee and the Committee have been used as a wink for black and green husk-push applications. The applications were lifted into the committees by means of carrier missiles and then whipped through comprehensive amendments without proper review. At the ÖVP I am no longer surprised by this anti-parliamentary approach, but I have honestly expected more from the Greens. For example, by means of spontaneous amendment, pregnant women in certain occupational groups will be forced to leave the job without voting rights six months before birth. In fact, it is not an extended protection of mothers, but simply a ban on employment from the 14th century onwards. Pregnancy week. The obsolete role image of the ÖVP appears again. Colleagues Schwarz has just said that a woman needs no instruction, she can listen to her body and know what she needs. But write pregnancies They're not allowed to go to work anymore. Perhaps it is well meant, but this is an absolute step back. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] At this point, I would like to return to the Committee on Health, Public Health, in which Mr Anschhober has shown himself from his most hesitant side. In concrete terms, it is about non-discrimination, because homosexual men are still seen as a risk group. After the Minister of Health promised to accept the subject in October, there was an expert hearing in the last Health Committee, officially to facilitate the Ministry's decision. The Red Cross expert, Head of the Blood Donation Centre, said that interventions in the existing scheme would also lead to a risk to the existing high level of safety. A self-risk assessment is very unreliable from his point of view and does not produce the same result. Risk groups had been established a long time ago and an important basis for assessment and safety – “a long time ago,” said the expert. Excuse me, but “a long time ago” is no longer viable, and every donation is checked for HIV, syphilis and hepatitis anyway. It is ridiculous to make the self-declaration of the criterion. Everyone could say he's heterosexual. It is therefore exclusively about discrimination without paying attention to the facts. The Greens know that they have already submitted applications and requests on this subject in 2015 and 2017. It is now being watched to what extent this request by the ÖVP is being re-adjourned and re-adjourned. Usually, expert opinions are used to reject or accept a topic. In this case it was postponed for the third time this year. But we are not willing to let this subject disappear under the carpet. We need a non-discrimination-free blood donation! Dear Green, dear ÖVP, dear Mrs Minister, make you a contemporary policy on the subject of blood donation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11560	Next speaker: Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11585	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin with a thank you, thanks to the ÖGK, for the professional and good cooperation in the framework of the support package. [[Abg. Belakovich: Now comes back: Thanks to the Federal Chancellor, thanks to the...!]] It is important for our economy, it is important for our jobs, and it is also particularly nice that we have found a similarity with the Ministry of Finance and that further reliefs are possible to enable the farms to survive. I would point out that the January and February contributions can also be extended. The package includes the support possibility until the end of March, and then you can request to pay the amount in instalments by mid-2022; and for all those who need 36 months in total, there is also a good solution until mid-2024. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The opposition is always uncertain. That's what I'd like to say: My contacts with the ÖGK are very, very good and I know that the health system is absolutely secure. I also rely on the government and we as Members of Parliament to ensure this. The figures are absolutely not such that it is terrifying, and we stand there better than that is always presented by the opposition. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because the operations did not happen!]] Ladies and gentlemen, to the pensions: Yes, what Mr Loacker said is true, he just forgot a little byword from me. In the Committee, I said that we still have to look at this with the pension cover, so the administrative burden is so high. If Mr Loacker had been careful: Mr Klubobmann Wöginger has explained this very precisely. There is a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kucher, comrades and comrades to enable these 80 per cent for the other health professions, not only for the doctors. We'll take a look at this. We'll take a look at the bills. Today we do not join this, but there is a possibility that this will still be done afterwards. In this sense, I can wish you a blessed Christmas, despite this difficult time, and above all: Stay healthy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11640	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11665	Madam President. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Once again, because Mrs. Schwarz and Mrs. Neßler somehow told me that I had a false picture of women because I gave Mrs. Zadić a special protection status: In my female image, women generally have a higher priority and pregnant women even more. That is why we are discussing this law today, in which you want to have a special status for pregnant women. Then, suddenly, the ÖVP and the Greens are there, that is, we are putting it into practice that pregnant women need special protection. Madam Minister, perhaps you can Briefly replicate: According to my knowledge, local and national staff are excluded from this protection scheme. Maybe you can explain this briefly. That is, child gardeners or caregivers in Altenheim do not benefit from this scheme. It'd be nice if you could explain that. – That’s the start. Now on the main topic – Mr Loacker has explained it very beautifully – to the luxury pensions: It was in the Committee on Showreif when the EIA and, above all, the Greens in flowering terms explained why the increase in estimated 40 000 luxury pensions cannot be covered. There were greens and ÖVP very imaginative. Interestingly, the government would then, because the “Kronen Zeitung” is otherwise very stately, because of the article in the “Kronen Zeitung” – one has then noticed that the Volksseele cooks – has turned over and finally introduces this lid to the luxury pensions. That makes sense, it's right and it's good. However, I would like to point out once again: For years, together with NEOS, we have been trying to get rid of these luxury pensions in general, because, apart from an increase of a few hundred euros per year, we can no longer explain today why pensioners receive 15 000, 17 000, 18 000 euros per month. I am excited to see if we still find a majority beyond NEOS and FPÖ to put an end to the final end and to draw a cap on ASVG levels so that this sad theme of luxury pensions is final history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11701	Next speaker: Mr Philip Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11725	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree that it is a question of respect and recognition for the use that we guarantee our doctors at least 80 percent of the previous year's fees. Unfortunately, we have forgotten many health professions and – Mr. Pöttinger has mentioned them – many, many people in the health field, from midwife to physiotherapist, from dentist to ergotherapist at one time have not supported. I think it would be important to find a solution with each other. I therefore have the opportunity to make the following request, as Mr President has always said: [[Quoted print version removed]] The health system is strong when all health professions work together well. That is why it is important that we also support all non-medical health professions, and I can really ask all parties to agree to this proposal together and to find a solution for each other. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11820	This motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. No one has been reported in this debate. She's closed with that. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on Agenda items 12 to 23 and continue to complete the agenda. [[11:49:09]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 1090/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the prohibition of covid-19 forced vaccinations and forced vaccinations (522 d.a.) 20. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1098/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Hauser, colleagues in respect of compensation for damage under the Epidemic Law on the management of the COVID-19 crisis (523 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11877	We now come to the points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11904	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! We will return thematically to the subject of health, namely testing and vaccination. We as SPÖ have been calling for a strategy and a coordinated approach to testing since spring. There are mass tests now, but a strategy is still missing. What is the goal of these mass tests? – They offer a unique snapshot, which is good and can be interrupted with the infection chains, but in the long run, this unique mass testing does nothing at all, which is actually a pure waste of resources. There is still a lack of comprehensive testing in old and care homes, including the workers there – we know that there are the highest number of infections and the highest number of deaths there. It's still missing. My colleague Rendi-Wagner asked for two self-tests per week for home only last week. This would be a strategy to monitor and monitor the infection in the long term and also to relieve contact tracking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I fear that the same chaos is coming to us in the vaccinations. Only two days ago, the Corona vaccination strategy was put online. This strategy comes from considering that there is a need for vaccination from January – always on condition that the vaccine is there – again in the last moment. However, the preparation period is August to December. That's where I ask myself again: Why is this strategy not being discussed in Parliament? Why is everything presented again in the last moment? The lack of a strategy is also reflected in the compensation for entrepreneurs. There is chaos in the various applications for support and compensation. These support measures will permanently change our economy. We fear that small businesses will be further weakened and their deaths accelerated. What is the Federal Government doing to support regional enterprises? – It builds around 700 000 euros a digital dealer directory. This is how the Federal Government's economic policy looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11951	Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e11975	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to wish colleagues Vogl all the best for the future: The Steyress and Steyrers can be pleased that you will return even if we will have the better candidate in the next election. Ruth Pohlhammer is already looking forward to the election campaign with you, it will certainly be exciting. Everything good in this sense – but not too good, because we want to get a bit better, that understands itself. But that's what I'm saying. at this point. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Vogl and the Greens.]] On the real topic: I mentioned it earlier: Forced, forced, forced – I always hear force at the FPÖ. In everything that is currently taking place in connection with Covid, the FPÖ always sees an immediate forced measure. She's fading forced vaccinations, she's fading forced testing. Of course, all of this is always accompanied by some chaos activities and so on. That political change is being beaten is such a transparent thing, that is – I have already said it today – in the final effect like a hanging plate. To the tests: The surface screenings are in implementation, even this weekend again, I myself will help to capture these screenings on Sunday six hours. I think the story is very good. There will probably be a repetition in January, at least today's state of play. At the same time, however, one must say that there are test capacities especially for the old and care homes. They should be used up. Of the three million tests available, 530 000 have been collected to date. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] That's where we have to say: Okay, dear countries, dear SVs et cetera, you are also in duty. I've said that several times at this point, that's the thing. You can't go here and just move the Federal Government to the Black Peter. Last but not least – because it just came –: The fact that the vaccinations were never said to have been discussed is not true, colleague Nussbaumer. We have had the subject at least twice in committee. It has been reported by the Minister at least twice about the state of affairs in the vaccination strategy. In the last committee, the vaccination strategy has also been set out quite precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12032	Next speaker: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12054	Before I come to the real topic, I would like to thank Klubobmann Wöginger – unfortunately he is not here – because he has made a surprisingly honest speech here today. He said that the financing of the ÖGK, the Austrian Health Fund, is not so bad because treatments and operations were not carried out. That means in the clear text: It is saved at the expense of health. Because we're not doing any treatments! – This was an honest announcement of the ÖVP today. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA and also of the Greens, that is the wrong way. There must not be saved! This is a revelation that you have given today. You have been eager to save at the expense of the health of the insurance payers, ladies and gentlemen. It's bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12084	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be moderate in your expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12099	Yes, Madam President. Now I come to the vaccination strategy and the test strategy of the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now been presented with a vaccination strategy. Whatever happens within the framework of this vaccination strategy, we really do not know. There is also an Austrian test strategy – the test strategy of the health resort – that everyone can read online – which clearly has to say who is to be tested, namely symptomatic patients, patients within the framework of a screening program, but never all Austrians. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! These strange mass tests, which are not only extremely faulty, have no power to say, because they are a snapshot of the moment that has cost a lot, we only have because the Chancellor of the Federal Republic was a bit in the backlog and had to come up with something new in the "press hour". Not even the Minister of Health was informed about the chancellor's idea when he already announced it on TV, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. That's the truth. The fact that only one third of the citizens are going now is anything but a success, that is a huge failure. You've just done this so you can see how you're bringing the citizens. That was the test passage for mass vaccinations for you. It turns one ÖVP member here after another and makes propaganda for a vaccination that doesn't even really exist yet. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schwarz: Can you tell us if the ÖVP owns stock packages in the pharmaceutical industry? – You get the impression of the propaganda you're doing here.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12136	Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12160	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners in front of the screens at home! Among the slogans of the FPÖ are: dangerous mass testing, forced vaccination and forced testing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] I'm a little depressed today. On December 2nd my family met, my uncle and aunt are sick of Covid. My aunt came to the hospital this afternoon at 2:00 p.m. is my aunt's funeral. My uncle said to me on the phone yesterday: I can promise you one thing: I'm 78 years old and I want to live on. I had a full life, my wife's going to leave, but the first thing I do: I'm going to get vaccinated. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Propaganda makes the FPÖ if she thinks you should not be tested, otherwise you may not have a Christmas party. – One thousand infected people have been found who have been able to break through the chain, and I am very grateful for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Each individual can help to combat and deal with this pandemic, with the strategy of the FPÖ and its way, but we will certainly not overcome this crisis. – Stay healthy and good!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12212	Next speaker: Mr Ragger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12233	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[In the direction of Abg. Kirchbaumer:]] Also from the FPÖ our deepest condolences! Every dead person who died in the course of this pandemic is a Too much dead. On the other hand, however, it is also clear that the strategies that have been set up so far by the ÖVP and the Greens go completely empty. If you don't believe us, get a little bit, continue and look into Switzerland! Switzerland has calculated this, has tried to carry out mass testing. This has resulted in an effort of 32 million tests for four million Swiss to be tested. That would probably have been the right, correct way. They stand out here and say we are against it. – Do not treat the Austrians like half-pregnants, but carry out the tests! Have the courage to go through the vaccinations! Do that, the legal requirements are given in the Epidemic Law! But if you continue to follow your propaganda policy and get out of here regularly and say: Only the FPÖ is to blame, because it is against the fact that we want to introduce mass testing, and to ward off the vaccinations!, then that is the wrong approach, then polarize, and that is decisive to reject. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point – which must be quite clear to you – is that there is a right to physical integrity. Has anyone in this house become aware someday that we are throwing all our rights overboard from 1848? We have needed 200 years to get rid of our Habsburgs, and now you are coming and want to abolish each one by means of intervention, for example in property law. Physical integrity, human rights convention – you don't care. If you do not insist that we ultimately have to act proportionately, then we will fail here in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why I make a clear appeal to you: Either you introduce a reasonable vaccination strategy and structure, or you will have to reject a vaccination obligation quite clearly with the argumentation of the legal requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12290	Next speaker: Mr Franz Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12315	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! I am speaking today about the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Gerald Hauser, colleagues in respect of compensation for damage under the Epidemic Act; Mr. Hauser is stuck in East Tyrol because there was a lot of snow there. I quote from the motion for a resolution: “It therefore needs a red and white-red shield for the domestic economy, which really keeps it, to act immediately and to be able to rely on it, regardless of whether it is workers or entrepreneurs.” You are right, we need that, and that is exactly what we have done in recent months to a great extent, always accompanied by your criticism, of your permanence. Over the past few months, the Federal Government and the Länder have created over 170 different measures to support all concerned. At the Wirtschaftsbund in Tirol, a whole team of specialists under Patrick Taxacher answers daily questions about the promotions. I recommend to anyone who still claims today that he does not have his money, that his promotion is not done: Go to the Chamber of Commerce, go to the Economics Association and get advice there! A few numbers: The International Monetary Fund reports that Austria, with regard to the level of fiscal measures, i.e. additional expenditure and tax relief, in response to the Covid-19 crisis, 9.5% of GDP is one in the EU. The average value is 5 percent. The Federal Government is responding to the crisis in the short and medium term with economic aid. Nearly 27 billion euros were granted or paid out to economic aid. I could call you a whole series of numbers here: Financial management: 6 billion euros, total guarantee: 3 billion euros, Covid-19 guarantees: 3.6 billion euros, sales revenue 80 percent: 0.4 in work, 1.4 billion euros paid out, and so on. I quote further from Your motion for a resolution: “We have already shown the shortcomings in the decision-making of the COVID-19 Act in the course of the NR session on 15 March 2020 [...] that the abolition of the applicability of the 1950 Epidemic Act was a serious mistake of this federal government which has to be immediately repaired.” Make You are actually aware that you are constantly pretending to be the solution of the Epidemic Law and of the resulting, as strict claims for compensation? This law, which was developed in the 1950s, only gives the officially blocked establishments a legal claim. That means: In mid-March, the following operations were closed at the district headquarters: Cable cars, ski buses, innhouses and hotels. These closures were made in the countries according to different paragraphs, and by the way, today it is claimed that they would not even be entitled to compensation. But what would have happened to the bakers, the butchers, the vegetable suppliers, the grocery stores, the brewery and the countless crafts and suppliers? - Everyone would have gone out empty. However, with our support, with the support that the Federal Government has provided, which we have decided here, they have also been used accordingly. It is a mental error of yours, stop with the declaration of this epidemic law! It would not have brought in far-reaching areas what you promise, and you know that very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12379	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I will also refer this vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on Agenda items 12 to 23. [[12:06:03]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (466, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Law on compulsory training (524, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12412	We thus reach the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Bettina Zopf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12443	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Love to see and see at home in front of the TV screens! Taking advantage of opportunities, making money – with the training requirement up to 18 will ensure that all young people in Austria up to their 18th. You can go to school or do a lesson and start your professional life as well. All young people have the right to complete education, only in this way can they make their further life independent and thus be an active part of a functioning society. The training requirement is a safety net for young people in our country, because those who have an education are more likely to get a job. Without training, you become unemployed faster or you earn less – and this for a lifetime. School, teaching, retraining, there are many ways of fulfilling the training obligation. We see the welfare state of Austria as an overall concept. With the training requirement and the early starter bonus, we attract the teaching, which mainly affects the shortage of skilled workers. In this way, the pension system can be stabilised in the long term. We do not let these concepts go bad either, because especially in times like this, it is important that all generations stick together and make their contribution to the system. With this amendment of the Education Obligation Act, we create a bureaucratic discharge; on more than three dates in the future, the schools report to the school leavers. This technical adjustment helps us especially now in the turbulent times of the pandemic. All possibilities are right and beautiful, but the most important thing is that we offer our young people a perspective and show them their possibilities. All parents want a good life for their children. Our youth is our future. We have the political mission to create the necessary framework conditions, and we do so according to best knowledge and conscience. I am confident that our young people will master this, and now close with a quote from Pearl S. Buck: “Youth should go its own ways, but a few signposts cannot harm.”
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12488	Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12509	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The Education Obligation Act, which is now being negotiated under this item on the agenda, was created in 2016. It was created by the SPÖ and the ÖVP precisely because after the end of the general school obligation the training of young people and apprentices until the 18. The aim is to ensure the year of life by which a network was created in principle. This net is particularly necessary for the so-called Needs, and this has proved true in recent years. In fact, I would have thought, after the federal proposal, in which the objective of integrating young people into the labour market and reducing youth unemployment is particularly in Covid times, that we are talking much more about these issues today. Today, we have topics that bring simplification, such as the previous one, that a debureaucratisation is taking place, that reporting dates are changed by the schools and apprenticeships from four to three – this is timely, it is also very likely to be a relief for schools, but there are small steps. It is also a small step if you look at the fact that a debureaucratisation takes place in general with this new law. But what is important to me – and that is what I say, Mrs Bundesminister – is that data protection is taken into account, that the social security numbers of young people are no longer passed on and reported, but that an encrypted number of persons is now used and this message is then passed on by schools and apprenticeships. This is an improvement in data protection, otherwise I see in general only small ways, small steps. Maybe one more point: You have also taken into your hands the list of so-called training courses awarded to these young people – there is a clear competence. They are now responsible for making this list known, published and also changed. I would ask you, in the interest of young people, to modify this list over and over again. But let's think about it: This problem of youth unemployment and the integration of young people is a priority. I would ask that we hear more about this law in the next few months, and also that you take further steps in the final effect. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12549	There is now no mention of this. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I put the vote at the end of the debate on agenda items 12 to 23. [[12:12:20]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 994/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the introduction of a full-time bonus (528 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12585	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mrs Fiona Fiona Fiedler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12612	Madam President. High house! Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the beginning of the Corona crisis, short-time work was certainly an essential and good measure to mitigate the economic impact. But it is just a bridge aid, so we need to develop alternatives to these measures, which are also useful in the long term. The longer the short work takes, the greater the share of supported jobs, which were already problematic and endangered even without a corona crisis. Similarly, over the course of time, the share of farms that survive because of public transfer funds is increasing, thus making economically healthy competitors competitive and weakening their market position. Therefore, short work should be limited to the economically meaningful and necessary level. It should not only be used for the preservation of critical sectors of the economy, but also for the creation of new areas. A recent report in the “Presse” shows that in Austria we host around 50,000 zombie companies, who have not produced a positive result for at least three years. Not all these companies should have locked up in the crisis, but there should have been at least twice as many insolvencys as have been requested so far. Workers who have lost their job due to the corona crisis or are in short-time work often bring skills that are needed in other areas or industries. A similar position is also represented by the Board of Directors of the AMS, Johannes Kopf. He emphasises that short-term work has the disadvantage of holding workers in weakening companies with 20 or 30 percent working time, while they would be needed in other companies. It would therefore be appropriate to reform the 450 euro single payment to unemployed persons towards a full-time bonus. The aim of this full-time bonus is to provide an incentive for workers to change to a full-time job. However, a change would have the advantage of eliminating the shortage of skilled workers in certain sectors, but would also provide an incentive for companies not to hold their employees in short-time work for an unnecessary period of time – many workers have been in short-time work since the beginning of the crisis. This gives rise to the following advantages: a better chance of a full-time job with full-time income for workers, and employers no longer hold workers in short-time jobs as necessary because they could lose them more easily. The short work is one of the most expensive measures of the Federal Government. In addition to labour market benefits, a full-time bonus would also have a huge impact on the Community of taxpayers, better contribution from more full-time workers, better and more efficient job creation and the saving of short-time work money, which would not harm our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12658	Next speaker: Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it is positive for someone to think about how to improve the situation in the labour market. All I have to say is that this request by NEOS goes beyond the goal and could possibly even be counterproductive, because in the end, the contracts decide whether there is work for the person concerned or not, whether someone is in short work or not, and if these contracts are not there, short work is a very important means of keeping these workers. It may be noted at NEOS, however, that the influence of the Socialists in Vienna is already very strong, because in this direction the application goes. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: I don't have to be told by a peasant socialist!]] . Well, Mr Loacker, I know that you and colleague Scherak do not think much of the farmers that you appreciate them very little, but they are nevertheless a very, very important professional group in Austria. [[Abg. Loacker: Agro-sozi!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since NEOS does not actually take any positive measures to deal with the crisis, I would have a whole list of several pages which I could read to you now, of what the government and the government parties in Parliament have already decided and implemented this year. Unfortunately, I don't have the time for that, so I call only a few: Tax reduction income tax level one, consideration of workers who do not pay taxes, tax-free employee premiums, corona short-term work model, apprentice bonus, children's bonus, family crisis fund, increase in emergency aid, corona aid funds, forest package, community package, increase in compensation allowance, increase in the amount of earnings, profit and loss distribution, fixed-cost allowance, tax reductions, guarantee payments, degressive depreciation, investment premium, reduction in turnover tax and, and, and. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] – I could give much more such examples, unfortunately God’s speaking time is limited. [[new call to the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you see the government is doing something for the people in our country. However, we want to take appropriate measures. The NEOS proposal is not suitable, so we will reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12757	Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12792	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Franz Eßl, at the beginning of your speech, I believed that I really must agree to you today, because we also believe that this request by NEOS is wrong. But as you have said, Gerald Loacker now has rather social democratic roots, since the coalition in Vienna, I have thought: [[irradiated]] No, that can't be true! I really can't agree with you anymore, because that really doesn't apply. I don't mean that when I say that, because he himself knows what that is. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to the press, this year in Austria we have the highest level of unemployment since 1946. At present, we have 460 000 unemployed and 340 000 people in short-term work, together, the 800 000 people who are in an economic situation because of this cod-pandemic, which is unbearable for them because they have income losses. If I look at Mr Loacker's request, I have to say that it would have been important to see that measures are being taken to get unemployed into employment, and not to promote deductions by other companies with a government bonus of 450 euros, which is paid when someone changes the company from short-time work, so to go to another company in full-time employment. This is a massive rejection of workers, which we are sure we will not agree to, but we are submitting the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is what we see as measures to support financially people who are in no fault of their own. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:21]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12925	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12949	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to make it clear again: What is short work? – It is always said that short-time work is the precursor of unemployment, and the people who are in short-time work would certainly long to change their job. Whoever is in short work can change the job if he or she wants to change the job. But: Short-term work is a temporary measure if a company is in a difficult economic situation which wants to keep employees, which is also desired by social policy and labour market policy, and which makes sense, above all, for the company itself, because, in reality, it means that for every employee who has to be cancelled, new ones may need to be recruited later on. It is the wonderful opportunity to keep these employees happy, to be able to keep in operation, and then, after the crisis, to continue. So why, in times of short-time work, which is a temporary measure, incentives people to switch from one job to another are not at all understandable to me, nor does it make any sense at all. These are usually people who are full-time employed, which are usually not people who do not have a full-time job, but just work shorter at this stage. That is why we naturally reject this request. Much more sensible are measures that actually lead to a fairer distribution of work, instead of any measures that lead to people who are in short work to push other people out of the labour market under the circumstances of being forced to change jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e12986	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I put the vote to the item on the agenda 23 to which we are now due. [[12:23:05]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motions for motions 90/A and 90/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 11 December 1885 was adopted. May 1921 on the contract of employment of private employees (Employees Act) is amended (530 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13022	We are now coming to Agenda item 23. There was no oral reporting. Mr Gerald Loacker, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13049	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In six months, the workers' notices will be made to those of the employees. the differences between workers and employees, then everything is the same: The payment in case of sickness is the same, the notice period is the same. They are essentially the same to treat, there remain some microscopic differences in the reasons for dismissal, but otherwise they are the same. Now it would be high time to remove this status difference between workers and employees and to let the same apply to all to make a law for all workers. We have therefore all been incorporated into the employee's law so that the status difference is once gone. It doesn't need it anymore, because from 1st century onwards. July 2021 everything will be aligned. This request was rejected by a majority because SPÖ members of Stäger, for example, said: “The equal treatment of all workers must be the goal, however, of a conceptual equation [...] would not promote it.” – I did not understand; perhaps you understood it? Parliamentary Koza of the Greens has justified his rejection of the request by saying “that it also has a substantial and, above all, negative impact on the representation of interests.” – Yes, clearly, the union is divided into workers’ union and employee union. There is, of course, an organizational salad if there are no more workers and employees. There are posts and pussies gone, there is no longer the President of this one and the President of that one, because it no longer needs it! We now maintain the legal difference between workers and employees, because the union wants to keep its structure – and the government is playing with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13095	Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13119	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! I refer to your request, Mr Loacker. As an employee representative, I know how many different collective agreements, business agreements and even service contracts there are in Austria in which you would intervene with this request. It's all right and beautiful when you say: Harmony, this is about the same thing as gender: Let's get in the I-I! – Yes, but that is why there is no gender equality either. It's just like this: Just because they say workers and employees, we're doing a package, so they're not the same anyway; they're going to stay workers and employees. There are grown structures that cannot be changed from today to tomorrow, which simply have to go through a process. There is also a need for social partnership agreement, as there are works council agreements. I understand, of course, I think you only had employees in your area, because of course you have a different perspective. As has been said, we are in favour of social partnership agreement in these areas, and there is a need for some discussions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For 2021, I would like to give you a little more suggestions, Mr Loacker: Copy less and learn more! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Vogl! Since you are from my constituency, I would like to wish you all the best for your further journey. Of course, I'm very excited about who follows: Will it be another union man or the chosen woman? So, and finally a short verse from me before Christmas: Christmas, the feast of feasts, this evening with fewer guests. Celebrate carefully and yet beautiful, so that we will look healthy and boldly again in 2021!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13179	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13201	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A typical Loacker proposal, not so bad in itself, namely to remove the status difference between workers and employees, not to make a difference. But if you look closely, the devil is in detail. The employee law has been made for people sitting in the office who were a little bit the bosses in the companies – and so is it. Dear Gerald Loacker, there are also people who do not work in the office, but in the workshop, on the construction site, on the roof or in the camp. And precisely for these people, the employee law is a bit too inaccurate, for example, when it comes to competition clauses when it comes to Conventional Penalty – you yourself have addressed the issue of reasons for dismissal that they do not fit – and that is not the right way. I believe that the right path is the one that the trade union PRO-GE has begun to take, namely in collective treaty negotiations, to take the right measures, taking into account the working world of the working people, namely the manual working people. If one wants to do something for the workers, dear Gerald, then it would be better not to change § 1 employee law, but to say that people can retire after 45 years of work. Then you do something for the hackers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That would be important for them; I would be glad if it were going in this direction. I can promise that social democracy and, above all, I in the PRO-GE trade union will always fight for the improvement of their living conditions for the working and manual people, and that they will not be made to have any apparent equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13244	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13265	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already significant that, when it comes to the question of representation of interests, Mr Loacker is concerned with the question of democratically elected staff representatives in the company, especially the question of pussies and functions in the trade union. – No, that’s what it’s all about and nephews. It is simply a matter of people being able to perceive their own interests, to choose for themselves their own representatives who know their problems and their concerns and their realities. In the future, it will also need something like worker and employee works councils, because simply the realities of life and working realities are very different. A look at collective agreements and labour regulations at this level and in business agreements is sufficient to know and understand this. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is a question of respect, a question of democracy and a question of co-determination in the enterprises, whether one wants to strengthen works councils or whether one sees works councils as annoying evil by saying: It is simply put together by unifying the employee concept. – No, works councils belong specifically in times such as these strengthened, works councils belong solidified. They are an essential part of social democracy, economic democracy. From this point of view, too, because it is not natural and we celebrated the day of human rights yesterday, and because the freedom of coalition, the right to establish representations of interests, is an essential human right, sends solidarity greetings to the Veloce workforce. At Veloce, parts of the workforce want to set up a works council, and the employer, as unfortunately already at the beginning of the 2000s, obviously has no interest in a first-class representative and does pretty much everything to prevent a works council from being elected there. I would therefore like from this point of view to send greetings to the staff and to the Vida trade union, which will help the workforce to set up and elect a works council. In the end, it will not be stopped because democracy is not to be stopped. But democracy is to be fought again every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13311	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I put the vote to the end of this vote. I would like to ask the political groups whether we can start with the vote immediately or whether we wish to interrupt the sitting. Can we continue? - Good. Then I'll go like that. [[12:33:01]] Vote on agenda items 12 to 23
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13341	We shall proceed to the votes. Vote on agenda item 12: Draft concerning a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and other laws into 519 of the Supplements. Mr Wöginger, Mr Muchich, Mr Koza, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I will therefore vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Since the present supplementary or amendment proposal contains a constitutional provision, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Wöginger, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Koza, Mr Koza, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the title and Articles 1 to 3 and Article 5. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. This means, of course, that the two-thirds majority required by constitution is also explicitly established. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. I also expressly note the two-thirds majority in unanimity. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, ladies and gentlemen, on'remaining the refund-free pension after 45 years of contribution and withdrawing the reduction in pensions by the aliquotation of the first adjustment'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, colleagues on 'non-medical health professions'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on agenda item 13: Draft Federal Act amending the Parent Protection Act 1979 in 527 of the Supplements. Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, tabled an amendment on paragraph 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 520 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of this report? – This has been noted by a majority. Agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 521 of the supplements. Who's for taking note? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 525 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 526 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 529 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 522 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 20 vote Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 523 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Draft federal law, which amends the Education Obligation Act, together with the title and receipt in 466 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. This leads us to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 528 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the increase in benefits from unemployment insurance. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 530 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. [[12:40:07]] 24. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (461, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Servants Act 1948, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Laws and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade in the Law on the Law on the Law in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Novelle salary law, the law of law, the Federal Budget Act 2013 and the Audit Tax Act (Novelle 2020 Service Law) (506 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13635	This leads us to the 24th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. At this item on the agenda, the first speaker is Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13663	Madam President. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Dear citizens! If I am an employee or a worker in the private sector and want to engage in a private activity, I do so naturally in my free time, then I take vacation for it, even if I contest an election campaign, engage politically or exercise my political mandate, for example as a councillor. This is quite different for a group of people in Austria, namely for employees in the public service. They can simply leave the job out of service or leave it out of service, and that is not all right. This is a privilege of municipal councillors, it is a privilege of parliamentarians, it is a privilege of national councils, especially the major parties, and for their privileges fight here and throughout the country for years and days especially the ÖVP. Dear politicians in the public service, you have here in the House a strong lobby, which is committed to making it always better for you, and which with the Greens on the Nosenring will do something to help again today!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13684	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be moderate in terms of expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13705	Thank you, Madam President. Dear workers, dear employees, dear entrepreneurs, while you are in short work, while you have massive difficulties in self-employment or perhaps even face the ruins of your existence, ÖVP and Greens increase the privileges for the only group that doesn't have to worry economically at all! The home office regulations have not worked, the economic aid has not worked for a long time, the school education in the lockdown has often not worked well, and the budget has also been a trap. [[Abg. Steinacker:... make such effort!]] But when it comes to privileges for itself, the ÖVP is fixed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Talk to the teachers once...!]] It is said in the middle of the biggest educational crisis for teachers: Council instead of teaching! For the exercise of a political mandate at municipal level, teachers can now be exempted up to 90 lessons per semester. I do not have to tell anyone that this can have a negative impact on the quality of education, and that this is completely wrong in the educational crisis, even the EIA has to stop. - That's the one thing. The other thing is: A higher density of public servants than in Parliaments is at all only available in the offices themselves and amplified by such privileges You continue this overrepresentation. And that can only be done by one party, namely the ODP official party. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In addition, this is a second aspect that I would like to take out, judges should be able to reduce their service time by a quarter from 55 years of age. The government parties, in their request, believe in the reasoning that it is necessary to counteract over-examination and loss of motivation. First of all: In the private sector, one can only dream of such a thing. And second: How do you get the idea that older judges are less taxable? – On the contrary, these are fully-fledged professionals, they are routines, they are experienced lawyers, and we need them to ensure that justice works well and fluently, because there is still a lack of personnel. Thus, while companies, workers and workers are buying a number of restrictions in the economy, Turquoise-Grün is expanding the already massive preference of the public service. This means that politics is further removed from that part of the population, which only finances the public service. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, it is absolutely not all right now to make improvements for public servants. That is the absolutely wrong signal at the absolutely wrong time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13770	Next speaker: Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13792	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Maybe before that: What are the central contents of the service law novels? – On the one hand, it is about implementing the salary statement, but it is also about rules for the calculation of pre-service periods due to a ECJ judgment, as regards equivalent or useful professional activity. And yes, Mr Eypeltauer, there are also rules that have already existed and that concern the exemption for mayors, because the Republic of Austria is a concern that people are committed to exercising the office of mayor or councillor. There are fewer and fewer people taking on this responsible activity – this is what we see now in the organization of mass testing for the coming weekend. The rules on judges are also a win-win situation for both, because they do not have to reduce their service time. These public service regulations, these changes in public service law, are rules expressing the appreciation of the service provider. This is clearly not what everyone sees, because an article on this Novelle of Service Law appeared in the “Kurier” last Wednesday, in which Mr Loacker, as now also colleague Eypeltauer, has weathered in his usual way against the public service and these improvements. He complains of the tombs between public service and private sector, while he himself stands in this tomb and digs the tombs more and more deep with a spade. It is always the same reflections that are served there, ladies and gentlemen: Public servants are paid by the private sector's tax resources. [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, it is! Who else?]] – Yes, but the question is: What does that mean? Does that mean that they get the money for nothing or that their performance is not worth anything? – I guess it can't be! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] That's just in times like this when we're experiencing a health crisis, a chuzpe, and if you want to know what that is, ask at -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13826	I would also ask you, Mr President, to be moderate. If you don't know what I mean: “Chuzpe” has not lost anything here.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13842	It was explained yesterday what that means.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13860	Not under my chairmanship.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13875	I take note of it, thank you very much. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] There are some Members who negate the corona virus and its effects and also torpedo measures. They stage in the style of "Science Busters" quite bizarre episodes by presenting the impact of Cola on Coronatests, and so on. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, just the public staff are fighting this corona pandemic, from nurses in hospitals to doctors to teachers who do great things in distance teaching. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eypeltauer, who shakes his head.]] Not to be forgotten are also the officials of the district authorities who are trying to interrupt exactly those infection chains, and go to the limit of their loadability to fight against what some here negate: that there is a corona virus that can be transmitted unnoticed. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, driving a rope between the public service and the private sector to play these groups against each other does not bring us any further! Both need each other and do not contradict each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also know that over 80 percent of the population are satisfied with our health system, which we now need so much. In Austria, we enjoy an above-average satisfaction of life in Europe, and this is due to good administration. Austria and its administration – it consists of public servants – work, and of course it is financed by tax money. But this investment, ladies and gentlemen, is all paying off. I think it is particularly appropriate in the present situation to express a warm thanks to all those who work in the public service and fight against this Corona crisis. And yes, if the public service with tax money – of course with Tax money – is paid, this is an investment in all our senses. It is an investment that at least makes itself paid and pays off! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13942	Next speaker: Mrs Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e13963	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Dear Seers! At this point, I would like to thank the officials, the officials of the public service very much, for their commitment – especially in the crisis – to do great things. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I must say, Mr Eypeltauer, with great regret: Learn story! or maybe I should say: Learn democracy! – The public service, the administration in this country keeps democracy in motion, maintains the rule of law, ensures our safety, ensures our health, provides for our education, and I also expect a NEOS member to be more recognized for these professional groups. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] I also do not believe that this is a party's inclusion, so I agree with democratic commitment to all officials in the public service. However, I do not want to go into it any longer, but I would like to point out that we very much appreciate and very much welcome the improvements that have been made for this professional group, for the public service, and that we, of course, as a social-democratic group, will also contribute to this. There are, of course, because of the current crisis - those who have participated in the Constitutional Committee - some of the groups concerned, including the police, i.e. the executive service, in which covid measures have even made disadvantages, and I think that the public service has a role to play in the private sector, namely, there also equality and equality. I would therefore very much like to take up a suggestion from the police union of the Socialist Group and make two proposals here. First of all, I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is therefore intended to compensate for disadvantages here. I would also like to make the motion for a resolution -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e14061	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two more lines you need to read. According to the text, “keep out of consideration”.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e14077	Thank you, Madam President. ‘Fall periods after Z 1, 2, 3 or 4 in a absence within the meaning of the first sentence, the monthly period shall be extended or the rest period shall be reduced to the corresponding extent.’; I would also like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that at this point I can only thank all the public officials on behalf of the Socialist Group for their efforts, especially during these difficult times. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:53]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e14253	The amendment has been properly tabled, as has the motion for a resolution, and therefore both are under negotiation. Mr Christian Lausch, you are the next to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e14280	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we, too, of the liberals, will vote in favour of this Novelle 2020 Service Law, which includes the implementation of the salary statement. What happened to me at the NEOS: the lunch break paid and the rest. I don't quite understand what came here. I also think that in times like this it is not targeting to play out workers, employees, officials, federal officials against each other. I don't think that's up to date, that doesn't fit either. In addition, you also need to know that this Service Law Novelle 2020 – either you have not read it carefully or you have not understood it exactly – is of course not the big throw. This is not about millions, it is about billions, it is actually about small things. Once again, the great throw is not this Novelle Service Law – we criticise this on this Novelle Service Law – but it would have been appropriate for a long time. But if the NEOS here say that all this is so excessive, the workers and employees are in short-time work and they don't have it all, you must not forget that over the past few years and decades you've been trying more and more to adapt the public service to the ASVG system. That's gonna melt more and more anyway, and I think I've never heard officials complain that when they retire, they won't get a deal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] I think everyone has its advantages and also its disadvantages. I mean, the merger's already advanced, and I think it's good. [[New call of the abg. Double farmer.]] To address the Novelle Service Law: I don't think that's the big throw again. Yes, well, the papal month is extended from four weeks to 31 days, which, of course, is an improvement, but now it is not dramaticly expensive. I don't see an extreme improvement. This applies equally to the fact that pregnant public servants are charged and paid the additional fees and overtime. This is also not the case now that I have to say that this is an extreme improvement. You will, I believe, have nothing against the fact that children with special needs beyond the twelfth year of life have a second week's care allowance. I think that's good, too, that's why we're going to agree, but it's not necessarily what millions are costing, how this is always presented by NEOS in the most dramatic way – I don't actually understand that. What I still lack, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Civil Service, is especially the executive right. They know the public service is very multi-layered – teachers, administrative officials, executive officials – and for years and decades the executive has been fighting for its own right of service. This is almost finished in the drawer by the previous government, by Turquoise-Blue, and the question is why you do not continue to pursue and implement it. This would be an important thing for the executive, for the police, for the judicial officers, for the federal army, because the executive service is a public service other than the administrative service. The administrative service is also important, but the services differ, so they should also be distinguished in the law of the service. What would have been overdue for a long time now, what I'm talking about and what I believe I've heard about at the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Staff This is why I put this motion for a resolution tabled by my group: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this respect, I would also like to thank all the public officials, the executives, the administrative officials, the teachers for the work they have done now, in this difficult corona period, and will also do beyond this difficult time, that they are there for our children, that they will also do the public administration well in the offices and that they will ensure the safety of Austrians in the executive area, for our people. – Thank you very much for that. I think in times like this one can be glad that Austria has such a good, functioning public service. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e14442	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Eva Blimlinger, you are the next speaker to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e14466	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Before I go into detail: Madam President, I do not understand why someone is being cheated about the concept of Chuzpe. Chuzpe is a very normal term from the Jiddic. I don't understand now, I have to say that honestly. We also had the concept of Chuzpe in the debate yesterday, as he was not challenged – only shortly in advance. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Today, as I do, we will be deciding on a comprehensive service law novelle. We are talking about a lot of general changes, most of which have already been mentioned. I don't quite understand why you're so upset about NEOS. They have a different position to the state than most here, and there is every small thing like a lunch break enough to get excited about it. We will never agree on the understanding of state, officials and officials. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, I am bringing to the Novelle Service Law amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Eva Blimlinger, Mag. Friedrich Ofenauer, colleagues, on the report of the Constitutional Committee in 506 of the supplements: Service law Novelle 2020, 461 of the Supplements. They all thanked the public officials. I said last year, I think, too: It is also up to the officers to ensure that this good work is rewarded. They know the system of premiums and rewards for contract staff and officials. It would be nice if the colleagues would find some reward or premium on their salary account because they did great work in times of the Corona crisis. By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[13:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36182	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly filed and under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Christian Drobits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36210	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This Service Law Novelle 2020, also called Fall-Novelle, gives positive signals to employees. In my opinion, it is modernisations that have already been mentioned by my previous speakers. I would like to deal explicitly with three points. The first is: A judgment of the European Court of Justice has been implemented by the fact that there are no longer any restrictions on pre-service accounting when it comes to private service providers. I believe that this is an important point, because that has not been complied with so far; I do not think these restrictions have been fair either. This regulation is now being implemented and is also in line with the case law of the European courts. A second point: They now know that I am in favour of the most socially vulnerable, these are for me children with disabilities, strongly committed, and I can say that there is an improvement, modernisation in this area, by now adding a second care-free week, regardless of the age of the child, to diseases of children who are disabled and seriously ill. I think this is a contemporary appearance, especially in times like this, and I think that it is, in future, also a better creation for the servants. A third point: I constantly experience that there are provisional suspensions, while the reference is relatively limited. I think this is also fair and timely, that until the assessment of the suspension of the reference is made, and not a subject arises afterwards. One could now say that there is this one group that has a good union, the others have a less good one. I believe that if part of the trade union, the public service trade union, creates this, then the other trade unions are certainly interested in bringing the other groups up too. I'd think it's not a play-out, it's a match. In connection with the Covid crisis, I would like to mention another disadvantage for a group, namely the police. I have heard from many about the importance of police officers in this house, but I have found that due to the ban on this group's holidays, it has been necessary to cancel holidays. The interested party was told: You'll get these cancellations replaced! It wasn't like that. This was not so because these benefits were treated as taxable wages and so these cancellation costs were not reimbursed. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, Mr Vice-Chancellor. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:05]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36333	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and under negotiation. Mr Vice-Chanceller Mag, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, spoke. Werner Kogler. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36360	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few points: What has not been addressed is the determined increase in salary. I am going to do this quite offensively, and then I can give my best consciences a thanks to the many groups in the public service. Today, it has been relatively quiet, but I have been in the Committee on this debate, because we already have a record that we want to complete with 1.45 percent and are – this has been so agreed with the Ministry of Finance – heard intermediate sounds of this kind: They are so privileged anyway, why do they need that, why doesn't there actually be a zero wage round?, and at all. I would like to say that it will probably be true that, although not all, but most of the public servants, whether in the Federal Service, in the country, in the municipalities, it is also the downstream and outsourced units, rather regularly in the Austrian real constitution, if you want so, affected by the diplomas we are doing here, because most are actually following – everything so far, so right. It is true, however, that, for example, in societies, in municipal enterprises, because of the difficult economic situation, it is not even excluded that there will be reductions in staff levels. So not even the argument would have voted, but I'm talking about something else. The public servants, be it those in hospitals, in nursing homes, doctors, nursing staff, the police, the teachers, the kindergartens, the kindergartens, the staff in the Ministry of Defense, also in the Federal Army itself and so on, are currently doing outstanding things, I think, doing outstanding things. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] And many of those who were sung and mocked from March are public servants, so it is! I would therefore have had little understanding of this – I understand for every debate and at many different times, but not on this – that the argument is made, because there is a special job security anyway. Yes, that may seem to be a certain difference to those employed in the private sector, I do not want to deny that at all, but you have to weigh everything together, and so, I think, it was a smart decision, actually a great merit of all those involved, including the public service trade union – thanks also to the negotiating partner in these salary negotiations – that we have agreed in quite a very short time on what is the simplest and the most comprehensible thing at this point, namely, almost to the hundredth point of the percentage point of inflation shown in the last twelve months – just as it has always been – and in this difficult and challenging time not to make any spressanadles and to turn any rounds of honour, but to some in short, scarcely and quickly aim-safely. I believe that this negotiation is a value in itself in this difficult situation. As I said, I would otherwise lack any understanding, except now that most of the public servants, if you like, are fighting on this front, which we all have been able to observe for ten months, and sometimes also with all the difficulties. - That's what I'm talking about. And I can only confirm my thanks to all these groups. On this occasion: You can stand to these mass tests as you want, but I think they are perfectly organized from the preparation. There are also many public servants there – but also volunteers and voluntary organisations, and I am not at this point, because we also have responsibilities in this area, to express my respect and my thanks. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There are many thousands who help in every federal state, and of course I join this appeal to say: Please, people, dear people you get this opportunity to test, let's test! It's bringing something, just before Christmas. No one will be interested in not knowing whether he is infected or not, and therefore in risk of infecting his relatives, his loved ones, especially when they are older. The pre-Christmas season and the Christmas season are the times when the majority of people have the most common contact with their older relatives – that is simply the case, so we live here in Austria. That is also good, and it should be possible to do a lot in the direction of Christmas holidays. All the more important it is to be tested in order to reduce the risks to vulnerable and especially older groups and to our next relatives. I can only say that once again, if you want to do so, with a warm appeal. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In the matter itself: It is true that many points are included in this Novelle 2020 service law. That is why it is not that small a throw – I agree with Mr Blimlinger – and I just want to take two points, because they should not stand that way, out of the debates. One was that was assembled or was mistakenly claimed that the Federal Government or the government groups felt that judges were on the right track from 55 onwards. No longer would have seen their year of life grow. This is, of course, a total nonsense. It is true, however, that we are creating the possibility of reducing the corresponding service times. This is not an obligation, but a possibility, and I think it is intelligent, because not everyone has the same living situation and the same professional situation, and if it helps someone, it is good if there is this possibility. Teurer's not gonna be anything. Of course, time must also be replaced, but usually there will be, if They want to follow disciples and disciples to the train, which is not the worst either. And I think that because otherwise it is always complained that in public service everything is so inflexible – which is not true anyway – that this creates more flexibility for the benefit of several sides – so we use it! But what I really wanted to say is: It is a possibility and not a duty. It's not supposed to be wrong here. As a previous one: It was addressed by Mr Lausch as a special service right. Yes, of course I also know that this is a longer debate, a longer one. There are at least as many contrasts as Pros. [[Call the FPÖ:No, no - -!]] -Let me do this! – It is also true that there are special regulations in the existing regulations. That makes sense. We only need to look at the service schedules. There we have quite different for teachers than for other groups in the public service. This means that some differentiation is necessary now, but the danger that we would create with ever-increasing special service rights within the public service is that it will make it difficult to change if there are completely individual regulations out of its own normative structure everywhere – and we do not want to do so, because we want to create more flexibility and facilitate change. Nevertheless, Mr Lausch is right to say: It is true that I often follow his arguments and am not always clear to myself either what he means or if I have understood everything. It sounds quite appealing – I think, even because it comes from practice – at first. That is why we agreed that we should make our own debate on this. [[Abg. It's okay. It's okay, it's okay.]] I want to emphasize this here, because it is important to me – contrary to many considerations I have heard more recently in relation to the Federal Government, that we would not be ready for communication or exchange. So we're gonna do this. So, and one last point: Mr Eypeltauer, well, one can say a lot, but that the economic aid – and here I also see myself as a representative of the Federal Government – would not work or would not arrive, as once claimed in the third sentence, I can only reject that, first of all, and secondly I would really recommend to you – even if this argument, as I know, goes to your nerves – to make a comparison. You can really compare this with all the countries in Europe when you look at the revenue replacement, how quickly the company landed, or the support from the non-profit organization support fund, or the ones from the hardening fund – yes, with initial difficulties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eypeltauer]] It's not always easy either. If you want to be goal-proof, it's a little more complex in setting up and finishing. If you can get across faster, like in the case of revenue replacement, then the damage that is given here, of course, is not accurate on the euro, but that is a little bit tighter, for this it is immediately with the companies. That's where the comparison makes us really sure. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Germany has announced this week earlier, and they still don't have it. They haven't even completed the IT, but we've been paying for four weeks! – So take You can also keep an eye on this! I am very sensitive to criticism anyway, and we ourselves, and that was the reason, always made improvements, because if you put it all away from March and from April, there are, of course, intimidating, perhaps even errors inside. However, they will be corrected, and in so far as I reject the claim that these economic aids do not work or do not arrive, they will certainly go back. You can say they're wrong, you can say they're too much – what you're doing anyway. At first it was too little for you, now it's too much for you. Deal with yourself once!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36443	Mr Angerer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36467	Mr. Kogler, in his speech, has just claimed that the economic promotions made by this Federal Government in the course of the Covid crisis arrive at the companies. I'm actually correcting: I have here a letter from a concerned entrepreneur – I mentioned it in my speech yesterday – who personally addressed the Ministry of Economic Affairs last week, [[Keeping a document in height]] The Minister of Economic Affairs has informed her that it will be dealt with in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It was also treated. The answer is: She's not getting anything. – The economic promotions do not arrive, Mr Vice-Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36510	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the report of the Constitutional Committee. Before entering the voting process, I ask: Do the clubs want a session break? - No, that's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 506 of the supplements. There is an additional request from the honourable Member, Mag. Mr Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, as well as an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Blimlinger, Mag. Of course, I think it is a good thing to be able to do so. I am therefore going to vote first on the supplementary proposal mentioned, then on the parts covered by the supplementary or amendment referred to above, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Yildirim, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 7a into Article 2. Those ladies and gentlemen who are for this, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies Mag. Blimlinger, Mag. Ovenauer, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment to Articles 1 to 5 and 7 and 8. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Steinacker: This is not unanimous!]] - Excuse me! This is largely accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Selma Yildirim, colleagues on “Increasing the attractiveness of police training”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Lausch, colleagues on 'Fairness in Teachings and Reminders'. § 109 para. 2 BDG’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Selma Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, on the “correction of further disadvantages in the law of the service, which became visible due to the situation of COVID-19”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:20:43]] 25. Point Report of the Sports Committee on the Government Template (482 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Federal Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports (Anti-Doping Federal Law 2021 – ADBG 2021) and the Federal Law on the Promotion of Sports (Bundes-Sportförderungsgesetz 2017 – BSFG 2017) (533 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36591	Now we come to the 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag has been reported to speak. Agnes Sirkka-Prammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36619	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! The athletes have a right to a fair competition. If they face each other, we want to see who has the best technique, the best fitness, the greatest mental strength, the most cleverness or the best nerves. In sport, it is supposed to be fair competitions. And the opposite is doping. Because Doping is a global problem and sportsmen compete against each other in international competitions, it is also necessary to fight it worldwide. Since the World Antidoping Authority, the Wada, has further concreteized its World Anti-Doping Code, we can also implement it accordingly in Austria, thus making the fight against doping even more intense and effective. Not least in response to large-scale and systematic doping actions carried out in Russia and controlled by state actors, special rules have been introduced to require other people than trainers or supervisors to comply with anti-doping rules if they support athletes, athletes in their performance. Furthermore, those persons are also infringing the anti-doping regulations that pressure Whistleblowers to keep or take back their taxing statements. It is therefore an essential step against organized doping. At this point I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] But we have gone even further with this law than just to implement the innovations of the Wada. So far, the disbursement of subsidies has been linked to compliance with the provisions of the anti-doping federal law. In my view, this is also a matter of course. What we have done now is that the independent doping control unit must inform the promoter or the promoter if there is an antidoping infringement. This is a simple, but quite, very important addition to significantly increasing the effectiveness of this measure. A focus has also been placed on prevention. The law now contains rules on how to clarify the dangers of doping; and the circle of those who are obliged to clarify has been significantly expanded. The piece of cream on this law, which is already very good anyway: For all Commissions to be set up under the law, a women's rate of at least 50 percent is foreseen. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[13:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36732	The amendment is sufficiently supported, it is properly submitted and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Ing. May. Volker Tireberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36759	Mr President. Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Sports! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! The opinions on sports go far apart and range from: Live the sport!, till: Sports is murder! I'd like to say that I represent the former. But one thing is undisputed: Sports allows a lot. Sports allows competition, sports promotes ambition, sports is healthy, sports creates friendship, belonging and passion. Unfortunately, the sport also has opponents. These include those who, through illegal doping, gain an advantage over other athletes unfairly. We all know that sport lives on fairness – and doping is a form of fraud. Doping is simply unsportable. For example, the Tour de France shows us that this sets an unstoppable downward spiral in motion, that all the other athletes are drawn into it once one athlete starts doping, because then the others are no longer competitive. Especially in international sports, for example at Olympic Games, we can well see what doping can do. Countries like China, but also Russia are sending husked athletes to the race, against which our local athletes, who are clean in the mass, often only look old. The Austrian athletes, however, are not always innocent, as we unfortunately had to admit painfully in the past. But there is the Nada, the Austrian National Anti-Doping Agency, to thank for the excellent work being done. We liberals stand for a fair and honest competition; and in order to do so, we today adopt a new, adapted anti-doping law, which represents the logical implementation of the world anti-doping code. We expressly welcome this draft law because it simply brings improvements and refinements in many areas. I would like to highlight some examples. Firstly, an incentive is being created to admit an anti-doping infringement because it involves a process acceleration on the one hand and, on the other, a barrier reduction. Secondly, we welcome the fact that there are special regulations for recreational athletes and particularly protected persons, such as young people. It may, for example, be waived of publication of the decision, and it may also lead to shorter blockages in this area. Finally, incentives for voluntary addiction treatment in substances with abuse potential, drugs, and much more are created. We definitely agree with the new law. We wish ourselves a fair sport in the future – both in Austria and from our local athletes in international competitions abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36808	Mr Christoph Zarits is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36832	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree here in the House that we must do everything we can to avoid manipulation and, of course, doping in sports. Thank you very much to my previous speakers: I can sign everything that has been said here. Doping is a fraud against all fair athletes and to a great extent harmful to health. We pursue two main objectives with the present anti-doping federal law. For the first time, we implement the World Anti-Doping Code 2021 and, secondly, we are implementing the experiences of recent years as regards the implementation of the Anti-Doping Federal Law of 2007. There is an international agreement against doping in sport. Contracting States shall undertake to comply with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code, to take appropriate measures and also to comply with the obligations. The focus of the new law, as mentioned earlier, includes dealing with the concept of a leisure sportsman. I believe that this is very important that the directive allows recreational athletes and top athletes to be treated differently in the event of violations. New acts have also been taken up. For example, intimidation and threats aimed at ensuring that information and information on infringements are not transmitted to appropriate bodies are sanctioned. Harmonization of prevention work: The associations and associations will implement measures; compulsory training will take place before major sporting events. I think that is very crucial and important. There are also new rules and restructuring procedures concerning the composition of the various independent anti-doping legal committees and subcommittees. It shall ensure that the procedures are independent and that there are no conflicts of interest in anti-doping work. The requirements for the government and the sports associations as well as for anti-doping agencies are deepened and concreteised. There is also an extension of the national test pool and the team pool. We're not supposed to give a place to doping in sport. – Thank you for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36865	Mr Mag, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats, Democrats, Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke on behalf of the Group of the Werner Koglerzu word reported. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36890	Some points – not all of them – have already been mentioned this really almost historical novel, as has been quantified here in the series. I'm not counting the rest. I am concerned about something else: that we can make a classification of this law-making and of this law-making work here. Yes, of course it is that the international level with the World Anti-Doping Code makes a requirement, that is true. In Austria, however, we are well ahead of the anti-doping measures; therefore, we also thank the Nad. The managing director, who is always an excellent consultant, is behind me today. I wanted to add to the classification: In our society, competition plays a very important role, whether in the economy or elsewhere – whether this is always good – is another question, I let it put it down – especially, of course, in Performance and top-notch sports. This one also has an important social function, one can trace it back to ancient times. But if it is true that this has a much greater significance for the masses of the population than many of us admit – it is important in a democracy to look at it – then it has to be fair there too! If competition – and competition – in the case of top-ranking sport is indeed a definition – then as fair as possible as possible, as correct as possible and not in the sense of such laws almost criminal methods in order to gain an unfair advantage. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] These are the fundamental intensions of this law. You can't estimate that we're always behind this – or in that case you're a legislator. Sometimes we're a little behind – that's the last point I want to do – because of course it's the case that the methods are always improving, but at least you have to look at it. Doping control must be checked with the technical means that change. It also changes the method of doping control. It aims much more at systematic fast-pacing processes and less at the individual substance in the individual body of a single athlete. You have to recognize what's behind it, because the methods also change. Propos methods: Of course, it is very useful that Whistleblowers are explicitly protected – we know this from the fight against fraud and similar practices – and that the discredit and disadvantage of Whistleblowers and the attacks on Whistleblowers become their own crime. That would be an addition that I would have done now, but I will leave it because the law is very, very comprehensive and some points have been mentioned. I would like to congratulate the Sports Committee and all those who have contributed to it that this law will become as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36938	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Sports Committee and continue to complete the agenda. [[13:33:48]] 26. Point Report by the Sports Committee on Amendment 1038/A(E) by Mr Christoph Zarits, Mr Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, colleagues on #comebackstronger – Action programme for Austrian sport after the COVID-19 crisis (534 d.b.) 27. Point Report by the Sports Committee on Amendment 917/A(E) by Mr Maximilian Köllner, Mr MA, colleagues, on the extension of financial support measures in sport (535 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e36990	We now come to points 26 and 27 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Maximilian Köllner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37020	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the very first thing, I would like to give people at home in front of the screens a little insight into what the government parties understand by the concept of wide shoulder closure so often stressed by them in this crisis. Since the beginning of this crisis, we have been involved in many decisions that have convinced us that they are correct and necessary, and that we have often called for ourselves. Not all that the government coalition wants to decide is automatically bad, as it would like to say; but vice versa, you do not have to reject everything from home just because it comes from the ranks of the opposition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The truth is that at committee meetings, where the viewers cannot be present, you are advocating or rejecting the opposition's requests with sound arguments such as the flow band. [[Complementary and intermediate call to the SPÖ.]] That is your interpretation of honest cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens! Most of the time, you are even so bold and take our requests and base your own on them. [[Abg. Steger: That would be nice if...!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You have made a request in which you ask yourselves to work. An example from the last Sports Committee, which was at the same time the first: Request from us regarding the extension of support measures in sport – rejected by ÖVP and Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] I've actually believed that's where we're going. You then filed a request containing it. And please, Mr Zarits, I see this coming: Now don't come with any alibi talk or with any hair in the soup! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty.]] Since March, we have called on the SPÖ to ensure that the sport, the clubs do not stay on the track. For us it was and it is still important that the sports clubs get planning security, as well as the economy and other areas. We have agreed because our demand for aid payments for sport is included in the request, although without concrete measures, guidelines or time-limits – that is to say – and although much of the remaining part of the request with the sounding hashtag #comebackstronger is more like phrases and word aids. But do you know what a comeback of sports and clubs would be really helpful and necessary? – A real support for the hundreds of thousands of volunteer officials would be, for example, if you do not make a zero-eight-fifth certificate award, of which the officials have nothing. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Shetty]] Give them an additional free day for their voluntary commitment or take over at least costs for their training! That would be a real appreciation of the honorary office. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what are you doing? – You quadruple the budget for government PR in the middle of this crisis: 200 million euros of taxpayers only for agencies, PR employees and advertising circuits! With this money, for example, the daily turn hour, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, could be realized throughout Austria's schools. That would make sense. Another current example: The government has shortened the pensions of 45 or more hard-working people in Austria in order to afford a bold advertising budget. [[Abg. Steger: Shame!]] - Right, Mrs. Steger! Finally, because we are already on the subject of work and fairness: Mr Zarits is also guilty of employee representatives; you abolished the hacker scheme about two weeks ago. If you really have something left for the service providers in Austria, look at your home country Burgenland: The minimum wage of EUR 1 700 net in 2021 will also be rolled out on the municipalities with yesterday's Landtag decision without the votes of your ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] As you would like to explain this to the employees of your home community as a former vice-bourgeois master, I would like to know!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37137	Mrs Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37161	Now I don't understand something that much. We now have the rare opportunity to talk about sports at the prime time. [[Abg. Steger: And whose fault is that? Why did you... set up a sports committee?]] Once we discuss the sports topics, the sports day-to-day points in the middle of the transfer time, and I didn't exactly stop it, but I think of this 3 minutes speaking time it was about half a minute around the sport – but well. Sport is one of the areas particularly affected by this crisis. The crisis has been caused by a disease that is transmitted from human beings to humans through physical contact. The longer and the closer you get together, the greater the risk. Because there are a lot of events in sport – trainings, competitions, but also club festivals and other events – the contact restrictions there have been massively affected. Clubs could no longer offer training to members, athletes could no longer compete, spectators and spectators could no longer fire their teams, and last but not least, the normally associated revenue could not be achieved. In short: The clubs have difficulty keeping the members to whom they can no longer offer. You will no longer find sponsors, because especially small and medium-sized enterprises themselves suffer massively from the crisis. People, especially children and young people, stay away, they lack the regular movement, and also regular meetings are no longer taking place. This is the reason why we want to link this package of measures to a package of different measures that are used in different levers. It is intended to secure the financing and reach out to those who secure this funding, and it is intended to bring in the curtain and reward its achievements, which have maintained and kept the clubs and the club life alive, who have remained active and have fought with creative ideas for their associations. We want to thank them, and we want to support them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will overcome the crisis. We will all overcome the crisis, and organized sports will also overcome the crisis. The aim of this package of measures is not only to get through the crisis, but to provide greater security after the crisis. Running sports in the club should be more attractive than ever. When athletes fight back after injury, they post their successes under #comebackstronger. That's exactly what we want to make Austrian sport possible: a come-back-stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37202	Mrs Petra Steger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37228	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not normally the defender of the SPÖ, but honestly I find it almost cynical, Mrs Prammer, that you are here as a sports committee chairman and are excited about the colleague of the SPÖ that he is not supposed to have talked enough about sports. You are the one who has refused any sports committee since the start of government education and has not taken a meeting. Excuse me, it's more than absurd if you get upset right now! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] What prevented you from setting up a sports committee? We could have talked about sports here often. It was your sole responsibility, the responsibility of the Greens and the Vice-Chancellors, that we have not yet had the opportunity. However, let us come to your request and to this item on the agenda: What is the point of this proposal? The two government parties, ÖVP and Greens, once again ask themselves to finally take action and to develop a package of measures for sport. All of this has the incredibly strong title #comebackstronger. Unfortunately, the creativity in this title already ceases again – strong headline and nothing behind it. Fine and good, we will nevertheless agree, as it needs a comprehensive package of measures to help sport get back on track, and we also do not want to be kept by you that we have somehow spoken against a package of measures. Please explain to me why you are constantly asking yourself to be active and not just to be active yourself! Explain to me why you only now – nine months after the start of the crisis – because many athletes, many clubs, are faced with the absolute nothing after you have been tormenting the clubs that athletes have always had with new regulations, measures and shutdowns, perhaps once a package of measures for sports, ladies and gentlemen! They're not asking for this until now. What does that mean? – That you haven't done anything yet. If you start now, when will this be done? Can you answer that? Will this be done in two months, three months, half a year, in a year? I mean, you must be careful, ladies and gentlemen from the Greens and Mr Vice-Chancellors, that the ÖVP has not thrown you out of the government for a long time until you finally come to present a package of measures. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] The only thing you have done up to now or what you have come to do up to now is the NPO support fund, which has already come too late and, of course, is the minimum for the survival of the clubs in Austria. If this would not exist and if you do not make sure that the clubs continue to receive the necessary financial resources, then you are responsible for the biggest club death of all time. Apart from this NPO fund, however, nothing has come of it for months. In a classic green manner you always hear: Prohibitions, bans and more bans! For example, if you ban spectators or torture the clubs with more and more and different restrictions on spectators and thus ensure planning chaos instead of once setting a percentage of the capacity, you should consider whether there are no alternatives, such as an initiative for enhanced transmission possibilities both on television and online streaming. Women's sport in particular would greatly benefit from such an initiative, ladies and gentlemen. Women's sport seems to you anyway There is no question of being concerned at all, because you do not even know how many of the aids actually benefit women in sports. Mr Minister, do something, for example, to finally deal with the strong loss of sponsors! Dam him off! Many companies can no longer afford to give associations sponsoring because the advertising value also fails because there are no television broadcasts and no spectators. I have already mentioned this on several occasions. In the Committee on Budgets, you rated this initiative and my request as very good and welcomed it positively. It is therefore absolutely incomprehensible to me why you have rejected him in the next committee with some dubious arguments. Explain to me why! Explain the reason! I'll give you another chance to do the right thing for sports. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, that would be a useful initiative once! Your whole application seems almost as if after a year of pressure and refusal of the sports committee, you should have made a quick appearance of some alibi request, so that it doesn't look like you're not doing anything at all. In this proposal, for example, you cite some issues, sometime out of the past, from the black and blue government programme, things that you have even decided with us at that time. I also did not know that we already have to decide on a number of occasions in Parliament so that they can be implemented once. Overall, however, it is not a really helpful request. I hope that, at least in the future, you will actually deliver a package of measures as quickly as possible. Overall, as I said, it's too little. The opposition has brought in many useful initiatives, measures and applications. Stop thinking so party-politically! Finally wake up, the sport urgently needs our help! Mr. Minister, what you have delivered so far is clearly too little. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37367	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. Mr Yannick Shetty has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37395	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear sisters, dear Seeher! As far as the Greens are concerned, I am a little ambivalent at the moment. Yesterday, I think, for the first time I didn't get upset about the greens, but I just felt sorry for them. I believe that being treated by the coalition partner in such a way as to be humiliated in the public has not deserved a party. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At such moments, however, remembering how the Greens took over the style of the ÖVP in all the committees last year, with regard to parliamentary use, all over the world – this also concerns the Sports Committee. Then the pity also turns away from anger and disappointment. We are discussing proposals from the Sports Committee here. Perhaps at the beginning, let me say something basic to the Sports Committee – it has already been mentioned by the FPÖ colleague –: The first Sport Committee of the ==References====External links== November 2020, i.e. more than a year after the Angelobung. – More than a year after the fishing observation – this has not been done in this form in the last decades – especially this year, when we needed a sports committee so urgently during the Corona crisis, there would have been such an urgent need to discuss measures for sport! As an opposition, we called for a meeting of the Sports Committee to be convened in summer together. The government has not complied with this, and that under a green Minister of Sports and under a green presidency a sports committee was only called up so late, I really think it is a witness of poverty. [[Complementary of the Abg. Steger.]] The Committee then postponed or rejected eight applications from eight of the opposition’s applications, i.e. all of them. I call such a refusal to work. I know, for many longer-serving Members here, it is already obvious that we are dealing with this – but I would like to tell you that I find this really appalling. We all here really get a lot of money for this activity, each and every one of us more than 9 000 euros per month – for hacking and not for serving as a government postponement machine! Now on the requests which are being raised here and are being discussed: We have been in this health crisis for almost a year, and sport is one of the areas most affected by the closures, which has already been said several times today. For many people, sport is their profession, whether it be for professional sportsmen or for sports courses providers. For many, it is an important fixture and compensation for working life, for others a social meeting point. Others, in turn, simply depend on regular physical exercise for health reasons. It is all the more unfortunate for all of us to have to endure the severe cuts in the course of the Corona crisis, because sports would be a good balance to the lockdown and the restrictions we have to endure. We have carried the restrictions in sport because we considered them necessary, both in the first lockdown and in the second. But what was not necessary, Mr Federal Minister – and I must say that to you – was the planlessness and the lack of preparation with which you started in the autumn. Planning security has been missing for a long time, health ministry and sports ministry have communicated differently. The summer has fallen asleep instead of working on safety concepts and developing tailor-made measures according to the different types of infection. I would just like to say something about the next item on the agenda because I am not going to talk about it. We welcome both the request for the current item on the agenda and the initiative on the e-sport – even if we think it is a bit strange that you ask yourself to something if you are yourself in the government and you, Minister, can implement it. Finally, a short while to Corona: As an opposition from the beginning, we have seen improvements and specifically identified problems – concerning the federal gardens, the sports venues, the sports studios. Now we are again in the situation that the sport is subject to a total lockdown, probably until 7. January 2021. Mr Kogler, I would like to ask you: Create Now you plan planning security, plan for the time after the second week of January and don't communicate again on 6th. - Yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37464	The next speaker is Mr Christoph Zarits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37488	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The last weeks and months were certainly not easy in the sports sector – and I say that the next weeks and months will certainly be a challenging time for the sports sector. Just as the infection numbers currently look, it will certainly not be easy. But I think it has been shown in recent weeks and months that it is worth working for sport and giving sport a perspective. That is exactly what we are doing, we have taken a lot of measures in recent weeks and months, especially in the field of sports. We are undoubtedly always in a field of tension between responsible health prevention on the one hand and the understandable desire of many athletes for versatile movement on the other. I believe that in recent months, in the time of the crisis, we have made many important decisions in the field of sport: Decisions that have always been agreed between the policies and the associations. The most important thing is to order as many restrictions as necessary and to allow as much movement as possible. Now, of course, the protection and health of athletes is a priority. My request to all athletes: Please take the opportunity in the federal states to be tested free of charge to make such a contribution to reducing the number of infections – that would be my great request! The more people from the sport participate, the sooner we can start with the relaxations in the sport. We all wish that we could go back to the sports ground again, that we could perform sports again. I'm glad when I can go to the sports field at home and I hope my guys can get back to three points. This is what we are working on, and I hope that the year 2021 will be a good year for sport. I am convinced that we are also taking the right measures. It will not be decisive what Mr Köllner, Mrs Steger and Mr Shetty say at the end of the crisis, how many clubs we save and how many children and young people we have made to play sports, that is what you can measure us at the end of the crisis. We have taken very, very many measures, I have already said that. [[Abg. Steger: to prevent sports!]] The NPO Fund has already been referred to by Mr Vice-Chancellor, so we have helped quickly and unbureaucratically. The feedback from the clubs, the athletes and the associations shows that this works very well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] We have also ensured that money is available for next year: We have transferred 115 million euros from 2020 to 2021, and there are 250 million euros in addition. If you can count together, you can see that this is a total of 365 million euros available for the NPO and for the sports sector. It's about giving the clubs and the associations security. [[Abg. Steger: You said a lot of measures – that was one now!]] We will take further action, because, of course, the crisis has an impact on sport. [[Abg. Steger: What are the other measures now?]] As far as the future is concerned, together with the sports sector, we have created a package of measures under the title #comebackstronger to strengthen the honorary office as well. [[Abg. Steger: You order to create one – you did not create one!]] Some 580,000 volunteers are involved in the clubs, a warm thank you! They have shown a lot of initiative in the crisis, have done a great job and put prevention concepts on their feet, which have enabled sports in summer and autumn. As far as the voluntary is concerned, we want to create incentives in the tax field and in the tax field, which is very important to us. [[Abg. Steger: That's what we've discussed last time!]] For example – we responded quickly in the Corona crisis – we extended the flat-rate travel compensation for the trainers and provided them to the active. I think that was very important and crucial. We need to see that we don't lose a generation of young athletes, so we need targeted promotions. With this motion for a resolution we shall ensure that. I am convinced that, together with the associations and sports organisations, we will have a good package for a positive future in the sports sector. I'm sure of that. We want to give safety to clubs and sports – in contrast to the opposition, which only scatters falsehoods and insecurity. The sports organizations and sports in Austria can rely on this government, they can rely on our sports ministers. We also need support for the cancelled sporting events, as we will also put in place measures. We will come out of this crisis strengthened, I am convinced of it, and with this package of measures, with our proposal we are setting out the right measures. We want to be there for the clubs, for the associations, for sports in Austria in a difficult time, that's what it's all about. – Thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37584	Member Alexander Melchior has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37609	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree here: The year 2020 is a huge setback. No one would have thought that the year would come this way and that way, with all the consequences. Everyone here in the room and everyone at home will have experienced such setbacks, after which there has been a comeback. I am convinced that we too will be strengthened in this crisis, and now we need to take steps here in order to achieve this as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In no other area than sports there are such comebacks. We all remember – perhaps not all, but some – Niki Lauda and his serious accident – after that he became world champion! After a serious traffic accident, Thomas has trained – we can remember these pictures – and what happened afterwards? – He was the first Austrian to score the number one of the world’s tennis rankings! For me, the story of Hermann Maier, this devastating fall at the Nagano Olympics, was also quite impressive. For minutes was even Nothing, then he got up, won. Everyone thought everything was over now – three days later he took gold! These are stories that always inspire us: in the professional, in the private, but also in the sports sector. We know such experiences also in the hobby sports area: that you go far beyond your borders when it comes to winning a competition when it comes to holding together and building up the whole. This area of sport has so much to do and therefore also deserves our full support, so I am extremely grateful for it and I am glad that in these difficult times it has also helped with the support services, sales revenue at sports venues or gyms. With the NPO fund – and we have heard it before – the clubs and sports venues will continue to be available 365 million euros in the future to ensure that after the crisis, sports in the form we know, love and appreciate it can continue. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that is an inconceivable tough time now. My previous speaker, Christoph Zarits, has already said this, and I also look forward to standing back at the football court when we can do sports again when we can see how all these competitions are going, and we can enjoy them. That's why: Keep them all together now! Soon we'll experience this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37666	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I shall also, as agreed, put to the vote at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Sports Committee and continue to complete the agenda. [[14:01:38]] 28. Point Report by the Sports Committee on motion 1037/A(E) for a resolution by Mr Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, Christoph Zarits, colleagues on the examination of the legal framework for e-sport (536 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37705	This means that we are in the 28th century. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Our colleague Süleyman Zorba is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37736	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I am pleased that we can now devote ourselves to the e-sport with this proposal, a subject which could not be more up-to-date. What's this about? – Simply put, e-sport is a modern form of sporty competition. E-sporters usually play against each other as teams or as individuals in different disciplines. The rules of the competition are laid down by the game as well as by a set of rules drawn up by the competition organizer. In particular among young people, the e-sport is becoming increasingly popular, so that in recent years there has been an enormous increase in public interest in the subject. There are also some internationally very successful e-sporters from Austria. Like football games, e-sport events now also fill large halls in Europe and are also being persecuted millions of times at home in live broadcasts in front of the screens. However, this great interest is in strong contrast to recognition and to the legal framework currently facing e-sports. The rank as officially recognized sport has been banned from the E-sport in Austria for years. In more than 60 countries, the situation is already different. I am thinking, for example, of the Asian region where e-sports have been recognized as sports for a long time, or of some European countries such as Sweden, the Netherlands, Bulgaria or France. So why the delay? – Arguments against recognition are often referred to as the often changing games that would prevent the establishment of disciplines. In addition, it is said that e-sport is not enough physical. However, both reasons do not stand for a more detailed review and comparison with other sports. To change disciplines, it must be stated that this is predictable and therefore also planned. Disciplinaries will have a certain life cycle, and as soon as it is exhausted, other disciplines will replace them. The decision to do so, for example, can be made quite unproblematically by e-sport associations. The lack of physicality in turn is not a criterion for other sports. You only think of chess, which is officially recognized as sports, but only requires the movements of chess figures. It is clear that the recognition of e-sports as a sport raises a number of questions that can only be answered by drawing up a legal framework. These are regulations relating to the protection of young people, labour law, tax matters, cross-border affairs and much more. In order to draw up concrete proposals for solutions to all these questions, the working group referred to in the request will therefore be set up, which will also include key stakeholders in this area. In addition to the e-sport, there are other things in the area of gaming that the working group should deal with, for example, the controversial topic of lootboxes. In short, the lootboxes are surprise boxes that you can buy in a game for real money. It is based on a random principle of game content. In some EU countries, these mechanisms are already valued as gambling and are regulated accordingly. So we see that there are many open questions in the field of e-sport, which we should answer as soon as possible. Today we are dealing with the subject with a first important request, which will ensure greater clarity in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37787	Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37811	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Did you know that the Austrian football champion in the Bundesliga is called Red Bull Salzburg? - You probably knew that. But there is also an e-Bundesliga, and there too the Austrian master Red Bull Salzburg, on playstation at Fifa 20. This is probably only a small part of the Austrian population. This title was brought by two e-sporters serving Red Bull at the final tournament in January to Austria. Unfortunately, the real sports world cannot be persecuted with physical presence to the detriment of the clubs at the moment. Through the lockdown, however, the numbers went up in the user area, in virtual space. The frequency of use and duration have increased, and young people in particular use these offers. This has naturally increased the sales and stock prices of gaming companies. 5.3 million Austrians occasionally play video games. But 50 000 also participate in competitions, some of which pay high prizes. So there is now the desire from many sides and the demand to recognise e-sport as an official sport in Austria, as – my previous speaker has already said – that is already the case in over 60 countries. Whether this is possible at all is one of the most important questions, because there are sports games, strategy games, shooter games, Battle-Royale games and so on, and there is still a clear border between gaming and sports. In my opinion, shooting games that are about violence have nothing to do with sports. The Austrian Olympic Committee sees this as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Important areas to be highlighted in this working group are, in any case, youth protection, labour law, tax issues – as has already been mentioned, because taxation is currently very unclear in Austria –, event law, professionalization, betting and gambling, manipulation, but also anti-doping regulation. Thus, in a first step, a working group together with stakeholders needs to be set up in order to draw a clear line between gaming and sport and to establish the legal framework. We will support that, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37857	Mrs Petra Steger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37881	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! For the spectator at home in front of the screens: What is the point of this item on the agenda? . This is a request from the government parties on e-sports, and once again you mandate yourself and your own minister to set up a working group to clarify the legal framework for e-sports. Apart from the fact that this request is again included in a long series of applications with which you are mandated to set up some working group which may not, for months, years or even longer, come out and happen, instead of finally providing a few proposals on which we could also discuss, and apart from the fact that it is perhaps not the most important of all issues in the Covid crisis, it is, of course, a subject, a great social trend, which is becoming increasingly popular and for which, of course, also belongs to the legal framework. In Austria, there are now about 40,000 registered players, and there are many millions worldwide. It is without a doubt also a big business in which a lot of money lies and which gains more and more popularity. As a former sportswoman, I have to say that it almost hurts me a little bit to call it sports, especially at a time when we are trying very hard to get the Getting children away from the computer and mobile phones and getting them to move more. This means whether it should be recognised as a sport or not and what the chances, risks and risks are, is certainly discussed and analysed with experts on a broad basis. It is also discussed whether it is really worthy of funding, since there are certainly many legitimate and appropriate concerns. Be it as it may be: We will vote in favour of your working group, but as a result we expect to see concrete proposals on which we will seriously discuss them so that we can come to a real outcome in the future on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37923	Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e37945	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned: Today we are allowed to adopt a resolution on e-sport. I am very pleased with the broad agreement here in the House. The subject is a bit strange for one or another, because you may not be at home in this reality of life or because you do not play yourself, or strange, because you often read a lot of wrong about gaming. However, an insignificant number of people in Austria is a major concern that we create legal framework conditions to enable gaming, but above all e-sport. I would also like to clear up with a prejudice: They are not only many young people, but also many older people who like to practice this as a pastime, as a hobby, but also in a professional way and thus enjoy the competitive games of computer and video games. In other countries there are already seniors who start from 35 years of age, so we are not far away from being able to participate. I myself would also call myself a bit of a gamer, far away of course from a professional practice, but with a lot of joy. 62 percent of Austrians also play at least several times a month and practice it with great joy. Parents have especially used the time in the lockdown to play together with their children. Many young people have also used the time to play video games to get together with friends, which was physically impossible, but about online games. This is, of course, a good thing to do as a pastime or even to get away after a stressful day. The step from hobby to professional e-sport, however, requires a lot of endurance, a lot of work on matter, a lot of training and, of course, participation in competitions. Those who know such competitions know how huge these can be, how many thousand people watch and how high the prizes can be. In Austria we are still a little further away, but nevertheless we have been able to build and develop an active e-sport scene in the last few years in Austria. In addition to professional gamers, there are competitions, there are streaming offers, there are TV transfers to be supported an emerging gaming industry with 90 Austrian game studios that have an annual turnover of 24 million euros – that is, considerable and worth of course. Today we want to create the legal basis for e-sports, e-sporters and e-sporters, and officially start a discussion process. Mrs Steger, yes, we are starting with an official motion for a resolution, but discussions – that is, the exchange of sides of the ministry and many places from our side, for example, with the Austrian e-sport association representing over 50,000 e-sporters – are already running. There is a lot of regulatory need, as colleagues have already said: The field of youth protection is an issue, on the one hand, when it comes to the classification of video games, or on the other hand, when it comes to the outings of minors who may participate in competitions. It is about labour law issues, because rarely do such competitions take place from Monday to Friday between 8 a.m. and 4.30 p.m., but on weekends or later evening hours. It is about independence, and it is also about the taxation of prizes. It would, of course, be desirable if we were to be able to adapt to the rules that apply to the traditional sport – under quotation marks. It's about event rights, it's about possibilities of sports venues. What you can see there, too: It is not only a federal matter, but of course also a country competence. That is why I ask, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Sport Minister: Bring all the groups to a table, especially the representatives of the e-sport sector, but of course also the ministries responsible for work, business, youth protection, and build a bridge to the countries, because there too important regulations can be made that stimulate the Austrian e-sport. This enables us to create current conditions. – Thank you for your approval!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38000	The next speaker is Mr Lukas Brandweiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38024	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! I can start my speech today with a headline from the previous year. World Championship: ‘17-year-old Carinthian gets title and becomes millionaire’. – Which sports fan in Austria does not wish for such a headline about an Austrian success? But what kind of sport has it actually been? Maybe tennis? – There are, of course, high prizes in tennis, for example at the US Open, the winner receives more than 2.5 million euros. But that's not it. Maybe it's skiing? – In Austria we have many good skiers, and fortunately we have also been able to cheer many world champions and world champions, but there the prize money does not quite fit. The winner in Kitzbühel on the street gets about 100 000 euros. This headline is about e-sport, and it was the Fortnite World Championship in the USA, in which the young Austrian, together with his Norwegian team partner, played the title and thus over 2.5 million euros. At this and similar events, large halls are filled, where thousands of fans rejoice and, of course, many spectators come from home. However, in the E-sport there are not only professionals, but also hobby players. In total, there are over 5.3 million people in Austria who use various computer games on the mobile phone, on a game console or on the PC. I myself, if it allows time, like to play Fifa – I have to admit, not as well as I always say, and maybe there are others there, maybe you can test this with colleagues once. It makes crazy joy, and so it should be. The computer game industry is now a billion worldwide business. Fortnite, which I have addressed, counts with an estimated 250 million users among the most played games, which is an impressive number. That is why it is also high time that we create legal framework for e-sports, of course starting from youth protection, but it also concerns labour law in e-sports, tax issues, event law, TV broadcasts, bets and gambling. Of course, the handling of ego shooters and sustainability in the sense of the model function of sport will also be discussed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues for this request. I am already looking forward to the results of the working groups, I am already looking forward to the discussions with our Minister for Sport and I am sure that we can achieve a lot of good.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38070	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Sports Committee and proceed in the completion of the agenda. [[14:19:30]] 29. Point Report by the Sports Committee on Amendment 179/A(E) by Mrs Petra Steger, Members and colleagues on the creation of a sports centre coordinating body (537 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38106	We'll get to the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Petra Steger is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38136	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In this admittedly already somewhat older request – but this happens if there is no sports committee for two years – I call for the establishment of a sports venue coordination body, a body in the ministry to be responsible not only for covering sports venues in Austria, but also for communicating to the clubs. It should be a central point of contact for athletes, clubs and associations. So all of them should be simplified the search. They should be helped until a suitable sports centre is found. The contact point is intended to communicate between the various bodies, to put pressure on them and to enforce that the sporting facilities financed by public funds are actually accessible. It is not rare for you to get access – just because the sports centre is located in a community where the wrong party rules, or because you are a member of the wrong umbrella association. Above all, it would also have the enormous advantage that there would be a central point in which all the information would come together and where there could be a need to clarify where to invest in the future. I am absolutely incomprehensible that you did not agree to this request in committee, and you will not agree to it today. This is my particular concern. That is why it is absolutely incomprehensible because it was just us two, ÖVP and FPÖ, who even negotiated it for the government programme at the time. Mr Haubner – he is not here now – colleague Graf: We made that up at the time. You were excited at the time, so I do not understand why you do not want to agree, ladies and gentlemen. I can only explain it to myself that you have no idea at all of the reality of sports clubs in Austria, that you have no idea what it is like to be a professional sportswoman in Austria – emphasis on “in”, because for women it is still more difficult than for men – in a club looking for a suitable sports venue. They do not seem to know what this is like if, after some state championship titles, you really want to play internationally, in the European Cup and do not have the necessary and suitable hall for that. You don't seem to know what conditions there are on them as an association if you want to play internationally. Everything is given to you, from the dress over the bottle to the presentation up to the length of the socks. Above all, there are enormous conditions regarding the sports venues. There is a thick book about how the sports centre looks, from the capacity to the number of viewers to the lines on the ground. Find You once have a hall in Austria, which for example only has basketball lines! Most have much more lines on the ground. This goes on over display panels up to wardrobes and many, much more. At the time, for example, we tried to find a suitable hall for a European Cup game in Vienna, and I can tell you how many halls there are in Vienna that are suitable for this: There was exactly one at the time, and that was the city hall. And now you can imagine how difficult it is for an association with an annual budget of about 100 000 euros to afford the city hall for a European Cup game. I can tell you: It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, why you do not agree that precisely these associations are being helped in their ambitions to play internationally, to represent Austria, why you do not want to agree that with a simple job in the ministry these clubs are being helped, is absolutely inexplicable to me. It can only be explained by that you have no idea of sports at all. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Rethink You're still doing this thing! Achievements in sports are closely linked to the presence of suitable sports venues. Only with a suitable infrastructure is a top performance possible. That is precisely why I tabled this request. Listen to someone like me who has suffered for years as a sportswoman under these terrible conditions in Austria! At least the next generations will allow you to access ordinary sports venues and thus the realization of the dream of an international career!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38195	Mrs Mag.a Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38219	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, from the principle that this idea of a sports venue coordination point is not bad, I have said that before. This would be a kind of mediation agency that has a portfolio of sporting venues available, and if a sportswoman, a sportsman or a club comes and says: I needed a sports venue for this or that sport, for this or that event!, then it can be mediated. This is, as I said, okay from the principle, but not thought through to the end. The fact is that most sports venues do not belong to the federal government and that the federal government is not entitled to do so in most sports venues. The problem is that it cannot be prescribed to the countries, communities, clubs or associations to which these sports venues belong, whom they have to leave when, in what manner and under what conditions. That is why we have agreed in the government programme to introduce a sports venue in which sports venues are listed, with their characteristics, with their offers, with all the information on what they have to offer and how they are equipped. Seekers will be able to contact this sports venue atlas. These data will be available online, in the ministry is already working on it. It will also be completed, and this will provide athletes, athletes and clubs with an opportunity to achieve this in a simple and transparent way, without someone sitting in the ministry, making phone calls, mufflers and pressure.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38251	The next speaker is Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38276	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Oh, my God! The application submitted by the FPÖ to the sports venue coordination body is certainly well meant. Mrs Steger, you are talking from experience about the difficulties the individual sportsman has, and I fully understand that. But a coordinating body established by the federal government at sports venues, most of which belong to the countries and communities – this is not so easy. Countries and municipalities may now have and finance sports facilities belonging to and financed by them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Of course, the demand of the associations and athletes to get help in this regard is important and good, but that is not feasible because the federal government is not the owner. [[Abg. Steger: You have seen this in a different way in the previous government!]] Therefore, it is much easier and more unbureaucratic when the individual athletes request at the individual sports venues. For these reasons, we cannot accept this request. However, we support our communities very much, for example with the KIP, the municipal investment programme, which enables, among other things, the establishment and renovation of sports facilities. Thus the communities make a big contribution for the athletes and for the sports in the municipality. We also contribute to the support of our associations, namely the NPO Support Fund. This makes it easy and unbureaucratic to get money, and it goes relatively fast, as many clubs have confirmed to me. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to extend the funding of this fund for this year. Mr Federal Minister, since the next year too will be a difficult one, I think it is important that we continue to do so. That would be an important thing. In this sense I would like to send all the sporty and happy Christmas greetings and wish you all good and good health for the new year!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38320	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – He doesn't wish for that. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Sports Committee. [[14:28:40]] Vote on agenda items 25 to 29
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38348	We are also coming to the debate on the reports of the Committee on Sports, which I will take separately on each item on the agenda. The clubs don't want a break, do I suppose? - That's the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Draft federal law, which lays down a federal law to prevent doping in sport and amends the federal law on the promotion of sport, including title and entry into 533 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled an amendment to Mr Christoph Zarits, Mr Mag.a Prammer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Christoph Zarits, Mr Mag.a Prammer, colleagues, tabled an amendment on Rule 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 26, the resolution on "#comebackstronger – Action Programme for Austrian Sport after the COVID-19 crisis" attached to the Committee's report 534. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[122/E]] We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Steger, colleagues, on the "taxability of sports sponsorship and donations". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Proposal from the Sports Committee to take note of its report 535 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 28, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 536 of the Supplements on 'The examination of the legal framework for e-sports'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[123/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Sports Committee to take note of its report 537 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:31:49]] 30. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on motion for a resolution (Doc. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law whereby the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Fund for the Promotion of the Contributions of the Independent Artists to the Legal Social Insurance (K-SVFG), the Federal Law of 9 July 1989 (K-SVFG). On December 25, 1981, the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Fund for Bridge Financing for Independent Artists, the Federal Law of 25 December 1981 on the contribution of art promotion (Kunstförderungsförderungsgesetz 1981). Feber 1988 on the promotion of art from federal funds (Art Funding Act) and the Federal Law on the Protection of Art, Culture and Sports Life from further effects of the COVID-19-Pandemy (Art, Cultural and Sports Assurance Act – KuKuSpoSiG) (540 d.b.) 31. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1020/A(E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Drozda, colleagues with regard to repair of sales in the lockdown (541 d.b.) 32. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 919/A(E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Drozda, colleagues on the repair of the NPO fund (542 d.b.) 33. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 920/A(E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Drozda, colleagues on the establishment of a one-stop shop in the Ministry of Culture to support the cultural industry (543 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38547	We now come to points 30 to 33 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Thomas Drozda. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38579	Mr President. Minister of Culture! Mrs. State Secretary! [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker’s desk, on which an organigram is shown under the heading “Light at the end of the jungle?”.]] First of all, I brought you something like this: It represents the transport landscape and is not overlaid with “light at the end of the tunnel”, but with “light at the end of the jungle”. This is a very good illustration of the fact that there are really approaches to addressing and solving the problems of art and culture from many sides, especially from the Secretary of State, but also from Eva Blimlinger. But if you look at exactly how this chart is built, you have to realize that there are still problems that are not solved. In particular, there are two problems that have not been solved. Problem number one is the so-called free artist. For the so-called free artists, for example, there is the solution in Sweden that they are paid 100 percent of the promised Gagen. For example, in France, we have a solution that ensures that in case events are not held and postponed, 30 percent, and in case events are completely cancelled, 100 percent are paid. With us these artists are still looking through our fingers. For these so-called free artists – they are mainly free because they are free of any income – there is no adequate solution. After me, some speakers will come and speak again of Boni. I would really urge that the word bonus in connection with the alms that you forgive for the artists is not taken into your mouth. It's a cynical and false term. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another problem, which can also be addressed in this context, is the fact that, if the artists don't get any money, which of course also means that the agencies don't get any money. The agencies live by the artists. If one had created a solution that provided the artists with funds, then the agencies would have received their money. I met representatives of agencies yesterday. The 30, 40 major agencies are all argued by the bank. This has the charm for the organizers that they do not have to argue with the agency about the gags for the free artists, because the agencies that are pleading do not engage in this discussion with the organizers with whom they want to do business with sometime again. Problem number two is the so-called subcontractors. It was spoken of by funds and liability shields. The fact is that the sound engineer, the sound engineer, the light technician, the light technician still have no way to get to her money. The fact is, the large cultural institutions now get their 80 percent – that's all right. The subsidies will continue to be paid – that is all right too. However, what is not assured is that subsidies and revenue received by the cultural institutions actually flow to the cultural operators. I have 3 minutes left now, because the clock is obviously not running here, but I come back to the point that we will support much of what is on the agenda today – like the many extensions. But there are also some points that we see critically, which is why we have also tabled a request for separate vote. Finally, I would like to say something about the way in which Parliamentary questions are dealt with – a thank you to colleagues who have clearly explained how the system of requests works with us –: There will be 67 million. Euro and the threat of the existence of cultural institutions; then, within three days, everyone has to go out, the Bundestheater-Holding has to express, the state opera has to express itself. The management of the State Opera says: It's not that bad, they're all old amounts! But why are all these old amounts? – Because it has become a habit for the government not to answer questions when the answers are complete, but to leave them for six weeks and then to provide us with completely wrong and broken figures. That's the way to deal with us. To be honest, this is more than embarrassing.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38643	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38667	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I'll allow myself to give away the Advent calendar. [[The speaker took the floor from the speaker's desk and put it down.]] We're in a pre-Christmas time, and that looks a bit like Advent calendar. But the great gate of the 24th is missing. December, because in the end, everything comes together and hence the funding that is available from all these art-promoting institutions. Yes, this may be an unwarranted objection that there are different instruments, but even these different instruments do not prevent there are still areas and certain groups that are difficult to group. The opposition will bring the argument and say: If we had a lifeguard, everyone would have gotten something! - Please don't! There are, of course, such different situations and groups, so that it is extremely difficult to identify the actual need for funding and to set a level of funding, or to put it in such a way that we actually promote what we want to promote, namely the loss of income in this pandemic. It is precisely because of this law that we will decide to amend the Art Promotion Act in order to cover all the individual areas that often concern only 15, 20 people or institutions. In this artistic-cultural area, there are very diversified organizational structures, and that is also good. That is why an instrument is being created again. Now you can say that it will be even more inconspicuous – it may be, but better inconspicuous with money than clear without money. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The free artists: Yes, they get 1,000 euros a month and there is a bonus. [[Call the SPÖ:Bonus!]] I don't understand at all what this term bonus is a problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Bonus is good, and that's good, it's good. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's not a legal claim, it's just good that the artists get it. They are free, not because they are free from income, but because they have so chosen. I would also like to point out that it is a situation in art that you decide whether you are a free artist or a free artist or whether you are an artist who has a contract, for example, in a theatre. That's a free decision, and just because she's so liked to say now, the free people are the ones that don't get anything, I find a little difficult. So: We do our best, we also do something for the organizers, we also do something to ensure that those in the downstream areas, such as artist agencies, receive a replacement for the loss of turnover, which refers to the previous year when they still had a turnover. In this sense, I still seek broad approval, for it is in the interest of artists, art and culture. By the way, I am in favour of the change to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne's Windisch-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38725	The next speaker was Mr Ing. May. Volker Tireberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38749	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! Once again, the government fractions do not make it easy for us to agree to this request because five laws are put together in a collective law. This could have been put into individual applications, which would have been more appropriate, which is why we will also call for a separate vote. In this collective law there are many quite positive points, so I am honest, but there is also a lot of critical to note. The first point would be that this draft was reintroduced by the government groups once again without consideration. Even if I had an understanding of the time pressure now in times of Corona, it would have been possible to provide at least a brief review without any delay. The second criticism is the voucher solution, which has already been unhappy from home and is now being extended again. Mrs State Secretary, have you ever talked to card offices about how to deal with this voucher solution? Customers don't want any compulsory vouchers. Customers may want to buy vouchers voluntarily, which is something quite different, but they don't want it as a compulsion. And it is also not fair to take the risk of insolvency to the customers accordingly. The card offices are left out at all. As they do not belong to trade, they do not receive revenue either. However, they have a crazy effort due to the permanent cancellations and partial sales losses of up to 95 percent. The third criticism is the Art Promotion Act. The intention behind this law is in itself a good one, I agree, but it will continue to create a new fund, and again today we do not have a draft directive on which we have insight. That means we are once again forced to buy the proverbial cat in the bag. As has been said, however, because of the majority of good points, we will vote in third reading for the entire legislative package. Now to the three requests made by Mr Drozda from the SPÖ: We can all support these requests in full. While it is good that there is a turnover replacement during the lockdown also in the cultural sector, this revenue replacement was pussed accordingly because the free art and culture creators and the suppliers were forgotten. It would only be appropriate if a theatre that receives a turnover replacement also required the gagen to independent actors and dancers It would have to pass on that the cancelled events would otherwise be empty. There is a total shale in the arts and culture sector, which is another sign of the German government's diletantic activity in this corona crisis. The repair of the NPO fund is also a reasonable requirement of the SPÖ. Instead of allowing an uncomplicated resolution through the financial offices, we have a variety of funds. The establishment of a one-stop shop in the Ministry of Culture for the support of the cultural industry would also be an important step in a cultural nation. It is a pity that the government groups refuse to approve these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38807	Mrs Maria Großbauer came to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38832	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Today I also brought something to the production of pop music from Austria, the new CD from the Schick Sisters. [[The speaker put the above-mentioned CD on the speaker's desk.]] Who else is looking for a Christmas gift: I very much recommend it. We now have December, i.e. we have this crisis for nine long months. For nine long months art and culture have been hard hit. However, I would like to assure you again today that this Federal Government, in particular our State Secretary for Art and Culture Andrea Mayer, is working tirelessly and stubbornly – and also here in Parliament – to support and bring through this difficult time you, very much valued in art and culture. That is why this collection oeuvre is on the agenda here in Parliament today. Five points are: Three existing support measures will be extended or increased, a law will be adapted and a new special promotion pot will be created. Detail: The SPS bridging financing will be increased from EUR 90 million to EUR 110 million, the payment will continue in 2021, and the State Secretary has just recently increased the special payment from EUR 1 300 to EUR 2 000. The art, cultural and sports security law, which offers this voucher solution for tickets, is therefore important because many events have been relocated, moved to 2021. There is a lot in circulation, and we also want the organizers to continue to exist, so it is important that we support them. The KSVF, an important institution, houses the Covid 19 funds, which has also been doubled to 20 million euros. The disbursement was also increased by 500 euros by the State Secretary – today she has announced it – for this year. The KSVF needs to be adapted at all, made up-to-date, so there is also this change in law so that it can still be fed with money in the future. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The Federal Government has so far taken over more than 220 million euros for art and culture, and if you look at the whole thing, you can see that I want to hold on to it: Austria – which the IMF, the International Monetary Fund – has calculated – is number one in the EU as regards support payments, with an amount of 9.5% of GDP. There we are the number one in the EU, so you can't say that nothing happens – we're quite, very forward. But what do we want? – We want you to be able to perform again as soon as possible, so at the end of my call to you, dear artists, dear audience, dear hobby musicians, choir singers and choir singers, dear volunteers and volunteers: Please also go to the test now, call your friends, family and colleagues to do so, because we need to find undiscovered infections and interrupt infection chains now! At this point already a great thanks to the Austrian Blasmusikverband and the Blasmusikjugend, who today call on their members to go to the test in a broadcast. We want you to appear again, we want to be back there again, we need the live experience back so urgently, because we need the emotional exchange because we are people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38895	Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38919	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Inputs: The reason why we are probably not going to go along with Mr Drozda's request is that we are also in principle representing the position of loss compensation, and that would affect all those involved and not just those organizers who get an 80 percent replacement. I have to say, first of all, that cooperation with the Secretary of State feels very good. There is also a good feeling that there are constructive conversations that you also get concrete answers. That's not always so good. What we, the opposition, are experiencing in the committees as a whole – we have already discussed this with Vice-Chancellor Kogler regarding the Sports Committee today – is that the delay culture has simply established itself to the excess and that everything else is being shown as constructiveness. That's actually the subject. Last time we talked about a fable: A partridge comes into a chicken stall to show another view, another direction, perhaps another idea, and is simply played down by the chickens. It then places itself in the corner and observes the whole thing with equity, there is almost on it. This reminds me of the opposition parties in the Cultural Committee. One thing you have to say: This is not worthy of the Committee on Culture. I would like to give you a few examples of what we take with equality. Previously, a quote from Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach, who said: “We usually learn to wait if we have nothing more to expect.” – I think this is also the case with the artists: They have almost nothing to expect. I ask you why these absolutely meaningful requests, such as those of Mr Reifenberger, who calls for a cost-benefit analysis as the basis for the decision on a common internal revision of the Federal Museums have been postponed. Why has the application been postponed – also by colleagues Reifenberger – with regard to increasing the base fee for the Federal Museums and the Federal Theatre? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blimlinger.]] Why is all this being postponed? Why can't we get into the discourse? “Who would choose the suit?” – You have advertised it, they have advertised for propriety, for parliamentary discourse in democracy. They have inhaled this delay culture of the ÖVP just as much. Why Make You do? Why can't we discuss this here in plenary? - Because you don't want it. Why do you delay, although the Secretary of State says: Yes, the satellite account for art and culture is important!Unknown term type: "%s".? Why do you delay? Why don't we discuss this here? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blimlinger.]] Isn't that embarrassing? Why has the application for office for contemporarys been postponed? I'd rather see it like this: The Art and Culture Committee could now be the quickboat for help. We could start the requests, and we could not only discuss them, but also decide that we should not delay them. I find this embarrassing for the Greens; with the Blacks we know how it is going. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] It's been running like this for 30 years – and it was sausaged. The blues have moved along, the reds have done this before. That the blacks do this, we know – but what did you say? “Who would choose the suit?” [[Abg. Blimlinger: Certainly not the NEOS!]] Who would choose democracy? Who is for the parliamentary discourse? Why did you delay the request regarding “restitution of African cultural goods ”? Why don't we discuss this today? This is to the detriment of those who create culture, to the detriment of cultural policy. I'd be glad if we put it into practice. It's like Matthias Strolz once said: Politics is the “Competition of the Best Ideas”. We should discuss these best ideas here, it should not immediately show a black or a greener in the next sentence and say: We're not ready yet, we'd like to delay! – just so we don't discuss him here. This is to the detriment of all those who create culture. I wish that this would be completely changed.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e38978	Ms Mag.a Andrea Mayer spoke on an opinion. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39003	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today we talk about a collection oven with which we do one thing, above all: We create the basis for that we can continue to facilitate artists in Austria next year through this crisis. But maybe in a row: Let me start with the art promotion law! This regulation is, as it were, a transitional solution, and I am open to it and, of course, has to do with the pandemic. For those who don't know exactly what it's all about, I can sum it up briefly: The Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds, an institution that supports artists in paying their social security contributions, is financed, among other things, by charges that are abolished by cable operators and owners of satellite receivers. These contributions have been reduced for a few years and will remain this with this small change for another year. This is good for all those who normally make these contributions, and it is no problem for the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfund. The money will in any case be sufficient to carry out the tasks of the Fund. As the second point of this novel, I would like to highlight the so-called art, cultural and sports security law, the so-called voucher solution. I know there is still a lot of criticism about this solution. I can also understand this criticism in part, but the continuation of this regulation is not alternative. Of all the events that had to be postponed because of Corona in 2020, a major one is Most of the tickets were not returned but still valid for new dates. If we were to abandon the voucher arrangement now, it would most likely mean the financial outlay for many organizers; we cannot and do not want to afford it. The collection oven includes three more changes. From my point of view, these are the most important in the current phase: With this novel, we extend the two most important tools for artists during the pandemic into the new year – the bridge financing that is located at the SVS, and the Covid-19 Fund of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds. Both pots are being increased by this change, by more means, so that we can continue to support where it is necessary. Only to give a brief insight into how important these funds are and how well they are adopted: From the bridge financing at the SVS we paid almost 57 million euros today, of which 51 million euros for bridging financing in itself and another 6 million euros on top for the lockdown bonus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] Mr Drozda, I know that you are eating this word. However, like Mrs Blimlinger, I would like to say once again that this expression is nothing bad. Bonus means good, and that's nothing cynical. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Drozda.]] - No, no, no! It became cynical because this word has been misused by some industries for greed, but since this word fits, it means good, it means an addition to something else. [[Calls and calls between Mr Drozda and Mr Blimlinger]] There is nothing objectionable about this, but – on the contrary – it helps many people to survive, to fight their livelihood. And because the word alms has fallen: On the other hand, I would also like to keep my mind firmly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If freelance artists are tax-free for November and December due to the lockdown, this is not a alms, it is a payment that you can do well through these two months. [[Calls and calls between Mr Drozda and Mr Blimlinger]] We have so far paid around 7 million euros from the Covid-19 fund of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds. This pot helps people in the lower income segment who have no access to the other tools. Artists could apply for a single payment of 3 000 euros, which has so far been used by more than 4,000 people – of over 4,000 people! So we are really trying to help all those who work in the arts and culture industry and are now in need. We will continue to do so. With today's day, this group of people will receive another 500 euros due to the lockdown, and we will continue to help. In the first quarter of 2021, there will be another tranche of 1,500 euros for this referee group. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Finally, with this collection oven, we create an opportunity to support me personally, which is also a great concern, through a change in the art promotion law. In recent weeks and months, as you know, we have set up a series of support tools that have solved different problems in the arts and culture sector, and I am convinced that this system works. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, we have also seen that art and culture in particular is very heterogeneous and cannot always be forced into corsets by broad-ranging assistance measures. We have different legal forms, different business constellations, irregular income from different sources, public utility, commercial activity and so on. It will never be possible to formulate and press all these possibilities in guidelines. And that's exactly where this new funding option comes into play. We are creating an innovative instrument which will in individual cases compensate for what the other instruments, for whatever reason, cannot cover. We are closing the last gaps and will catch up with companies and organisations that are so important for the art and cultural landscape of Austria that would otherwise be in the ruins, although they have exploited all the other possibilities, and hopefully also positively guided by this crisis. I am confident that we will succeed with these 10 million euros. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] All in all, this is a great, another enormously important package for the art and cultural landscape in Austria, and I can very warmly ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for as broad a consent as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39123	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39144	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! In the arts and culture sector, help is urgently needed, help is needed, help is paid – a funding landscape that works. Just because there are many jobs that work on it, that doesn't mean that the quality doesn't fit. There are structures that work – whether that is the artist's social insurance fund, whether that is the SVS, whether it is located directly in the Federal Ministry, all places allow for help and, above all, quick help. As an example, I call the NPO funds for clubs. An example from Tyrol: a small club, applied for on the 29th of November, with filling aids over the Internet, completed in a short time. Without support from tax advisors, this is possible for everyone, within three days the commitment for the promotion and on the fourth, fifth day the money already comes to the account. That's quick, unbureaucratic help. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Second example, the artist social insurance fund phase two, a very important phase: More than 4 063 applications were made, processed and only 62 were rejected, all the others were decided positively. The advisory board has done this 127 times. Every day, the employees are in use and are trying to deal with these applications. – That’s quality! There is no need for centralization in a new place, because existing places work with high pressure. Finally, I would like to thank all the staff and make an appeal: that we take even more account of those behind the scenes, such as lighting, technicians, all those who work behind the scenes in the background, especially those in the event industry and those who work in the service sector, because they also need our support. I know there is already a lot of support so that we can reopen the 2020/21 cultural event together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39193	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39214	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! In general, we know how to deal with applications. There are nuances in democracy: There are requests from the government, where one knows that one will never be able to assume that one wants to position oneself as an opposition, and there are also applications for which one knows that one agrees, but one still wants to collect points in the political debate of course. We have the great happiness – even climate, I say – in the Cultural Committee that we find each other again and again. The previous speakers have already pointed out that we may only be dissociating about nuances, that there are, however, fundamental things also in the cultural policy that are established for us: on the one hand – it has already been established – free artists are free artists, they have chosen to be free themselves, they are not state artists, are not employed, and on the other hand – which is also a bit strange to us – we do not live in a full-casco society, ladies and gentlemen. We are trying to help, and these aids that we have developed are really diverse. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the context of applications for which consensus exists anyway, please speak to my friend and colleague Andreas Kollrosszur yesterday, in support of the Lower Austrian communities, the parish packages: If of 573 Lower Austrian communities, 448 have a mayor of the ÖVP, dear Andreas, you will not assume that this federal government will abandon the communities – will you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] In this respect, we do not need any additional requests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As regards the SPÖ requests in detail, the requests concerning “Repair of revenue in the lockdown”, “Repair of the NPO fund”, establishment of a one-stop shop, are our reasons why we do not agree, and the content that we could agree on that we could address has already been mentioned. In principle, I believe that this is in order. What I don't think is right, and I say that as one who has worked for 20 years in the ÖGB headquarters, as a pro-black – I can say so, because of the excess-participality in the ÖGB – and because education and culture belong closely together: I have to note that under FSG management, the ÖGB bookstore will close in mid 2021. I find this very, very sad, because especially the educational area within the working-class culture was very, very high. I'm not squatting this side-by-side remark either: Fits into the picture of Bawag, consumption, ÖGB villages, “Worker news” and “Forward”, ladies and gentlemen! Johann Wolfgang von Goethe once meant: “You should at least hear a little song every day, read a good poem, see a beautiful painting and, if you can, speak some reasonable words.” – I wish you so, I wish you all. Blessed Christmas, a healthy and happy new year – and I wish you what you wish me.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39272	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Do the rapporteurs wish to conclude? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Culture. [[15:09:26]] 34. Point Report of the Committee on Culture on the Government template (350 d.e._Other Organiser Convention of the Council of Europe on the Community production of cinematographic films (revised) (538, e.g.) 35. Point Report of the Committee on Culture on the Government template (413 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Israel on the use of reproductions of certain archivals (539 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39318	We come to points 34 and 35 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39345	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! We are now dealing with two topics: the Council of Europe Convention on Community production of cinematographic films and, on the other hand, the State Treaty on the Exchange of Digitalizations from the Austrian State Archives and Yad Vashem. Maybe a short word about the movie: The Convention of the Council of Europe on the Community production of cinematographic films is to include in the future – I think this is particularly necessary – those countries that are not members of the Council of Europe, especially in the field of film. That means you can make coproductions on a much wider basis. I may mention three of the last few days: “Little Joe” by Jessica Hausner, who at this point I can congratulate very warmly on the professorship at the University of Music and Performing Arts Vienna, “evil games” by Ulrich Seidl and “Corsage” by Marie Kreutzer. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Meinl-Reisinger]] These have been created as co-production of Europe and have been financed by them. The second area is the exchange of archives and the exchange of digitalizations of archives between the Austrian State Archives and Yad Vashem. Such a one has already begun in the 2000s during the activity of the Historical Commission of the Republic of Austria. There was already a rain exchange. At that time, the exchange of archives gradually began – at that time only partially digitalized – and I must say that it took quite a long time for this to be regulated, namely in about 20 years. The background to this contract is mainly data protection and archival issues. It will be so that in both archives, i.e. in Yad Vashem and in the Austrian State Archives, these digitalizations – but of course not only these but also many documents, which now support very popular own family or biographical research – are made accessible to scientists and scientists. This will also be available as a name, because, as it were, data protection law is clarified how these digitalizations can be used. In the end, what better than to say that I am in fact in favour of the Windisch-Kaserne being renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39393	Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39415	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a new agreement between Austria and Israel. This new agreement is based on a common ground, but a very, very sad community, on the Holocaust, on the experience of the Shoah, on the worst experiences of National Socialism. This is a common ground that naturally combines Austria, Germany and Israel in a terrible way. It is about the use of archival data, the Austrian State Archive and the Mauthausen Memorial on the one hand and Yad Vashem on the other. Often the victim-cult research that exists in Yad Vashem is known, but there is also another exciting story: On this dark, in this dark sky of common history there are also lights, and one of the lights is that in Yad Vashem of course also those heroes who were helpers, but not helpers of National Socialism – of which there have been very many – are also thought of, but helpers of the persecuted Jews, the righteous among the peoples. This is something that our own history also has some hope that there has been not only the co-runners and the fellow perpetrators, but also those Austrians and those people in other countries who have helped Jews under the threat of their own lives. It was strictly forbidden and imposed high punishment to hide Jews at home as so-called submarines. That is to say, at the same time, there will be a maximum of four Israeli researchers working in Austria and four Austrian researchers in Israel to digitize and make archive materials available together. However, I would like to say that it is not only about archive materials, but also about people. There are still survivors of the Holocaust, which is the dying generation of contemporary witnesses. The Republic of Austria is doing a great job that needs our support. Especially in times of Corona, people who haven't seen daylight in National Socialism for up to four years are trapped and suffering especially. That is to say, it is important to pay attention to those survivors and persecuted to help these people who, of course, are also threatened by Corona – these are very well-known people – accordingly. In this area too, Austria has a high commitment which the National Fund of the Republic of Austria fulfils in a wonderful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39452	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39473	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In brief, the Council of Europe Convention on the Community production of cinematographic films: Yes, we will agree. In fact, we find it very good when Community productions are made the films can be cheaper, there are higher budgets and at the same time free choice of parties. It is also described in this agreement with the Council of Europe that non-member states of the Council of Europe can be involved, and we also see that this only brings benefits and no disadvantages. We also very much welcome the second agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Israel. This was already started under Turquoise-Blue, since there were already 8th. May 2019 by the Federal Minister other than Karin Kneissel, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, a Council of Ministers lecture, in which the agreement was presented more or less already, and now it is finally implemented. We also very much welcome this. Mr Deur, my previous speaker, has already said that there is nothing more to be completed. In this sense, we welcome this agreement and this agreement and will give it our approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39510	Member Smodics-Neumann has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39531	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I can also dedicate my speech to the subject of the Council of Europe Convention on the Community production of cinematographic films, because I think that is a very important story, perhaps a matter of course, Mrs State Secretary, but I believe it is also up to us to raise awareness, so perhaps one or two words about what that means at all. In principle, the Convention regulates cooperation. Why is it important to regulate this? – Because different nations work together. Whoever has ever worked with a kumpan or compagnon, who may come from another culture or from another country with another national rule, knows how important it is that the whole can be based on a common basis. It is about property rights, which are regulated to ensure the balance of investments, and then also about access to this wonderfully created final product. This agreement already existed in 1994, and we can all imagine what has happened technologically since then in the film sector, and this revised law also takes account of it. It is very important that this co-production, i.e. official international Community production, is equivalent to national productions, because there is also the possibility of access to national funding instruments. Coproduction, of course, also has a much larger market where these films can then run. Now one might believe at the first moment, if Austria is involved, it is only about the German-speaking region, but Mrs Blimlinger has already mentioned some examples; it is exciting that these are not co-productions with Germany, but with France, with Luxembourg, with Great Britain and so on. Why is this so important for the film industry in Austria? – Because we know that the Austrian film industry has to copy about a third, otherwise the productions would simply be too expensive. The Austrian film industry employs no less than 8 100 employees. It is 2 500 companies operating in this sector, providing approximately EUR 1.4 billion of value added, of which EUR 350 million alone in sub- and downstream sectors – we are talking about tourism, of the advertising industry. Not included is what needs to be bought in addition to services and products for a production. I always mention it: The carpenter can be there, there the costume designer can be there, there the Visagistin can be there and many more. That is why this is a very important instrument to be able to operate internationally. Maybe to also create a little awareness for the scope: If you watch a movie again the next time – hopefully soon – in the cinemas or also on TV and you have the opportunity to watch the aftertaste, read how many people and how many industries are actually involved so that we can enjoy an hour and a half! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39582	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39604	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Tür has already mentioned that there is actually much more behind this lapidar term of the agreement on the use of reproductions of certain archivals: It is precisely this common, dark history behind it, there are contributions from the Republic of Austria for Yad Vashem, for the commemorative work behind it, whose number has gladly increased in recent years. Austria has also made a substantial contribution to the construction of the new archive building in Yad Vashem, which is now under construction. In principle, one should perhaps also lose a word about Yad Vashem, the central memorial of the Holocaust, the Jewish people, where we have on the one hand a museum and on the other hand a very, very strongly growing archive. Yad Vashem in the translation is the monument and name – Yad is the monument, Vashem name. It is indeed the only monument and naming for many victims of the Holocaust who do not even have a tomb that does not even have a tombstone. In order to perhaps say it again a little more personally: My grandparents fatherly side, eight uncles and aunts, and actually an almost inconceivable number of cousins and cousins first and second degrees are immortalized only there. I think that this has a special meaning for many people. It is all the more important that we as the Republic also make our contribution to this. I also do not want to say a word of recognition towards the FPÖ: You supported this at the time when the agreement was signed and also announced in the committee – and now in your speech – that you want to support it. [[towards Abg. Smart]] I think that's also an extra recognition. But I also say: I personally wish I could hear and see more such signs from you. To everyone else: Thank you very much for deciding unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39644	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. As agreed, I shall refer the vote to the end of the negotiations on the agenda items of the Committee on Culture. [[15:24:34]] 36. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on Amendment 823/A(E) by Mr Henrike Brandstötter, colleagues on Gender Reports Art and Culture (544 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39679	We're now going to 36. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Rosa Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39707	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! In 2006, the average equivalent income of art and culture workers was around 1 000 euros per month. This meant that at the time 37 percent of art and culture workers lived below the poverty limit: 46 percent were women at the time, 52 percent in performing art, and 26 percent in music. There has certainly not been much improvement in income, although there are no current figures available to us. Many cultural institutions are under the responsibility of the federal government, as property or also distributed, and this means that there is still a lot to do in the area of fair pay and precarious employment. It is also important to us in this context that scholarships and funding are granted transparently insofar as they are public funding. Yes, a comprehensive survey of evidence-based facts will now be carried out in report form every five years and this report will be published. I think it will come to the conclusion that in the art world – just as in life – there exists a large gender paygap among women: because of childcare, because of re-entry into the profession, because of many well-known reasons which we have often discussed here in other contexts. Low incomes are reflected in pensions. Artists must be present to receive orders. This is often not so easy for women because of their family situation. That does not excuse the situation, but it is also a fact. It means that we are not allowed to have high expectations here, because one must be aware of: Reports do not yet create equality. And especially for freelance artists, there are no equal opportunities plans as in companies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39740	Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39761	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to dedicate this item on the agenda to Mr Schellhorn – I hope he listens to me; does he listen to me? – who has previously expressly wished for a competition of the best ideas to take place here and that we should take up ideas that are good. [[Rejoicing of the speaker]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Why do you delay it?]] That is exactly what we are doing here with this proposal. The NEOS were in the Cultural Committee and brought in the great idea, but regularly commissioned a Gender Report, for all areas in art and culture. Yes, great idea, and I believe that the Secretary of State will take this ball with great joy and do exactly that. Why is that important? – The explanation is obvious and has just been mentioned by Mr Ecker: because we have a wrong situation between the sexes. And if we have learned from the 150-year history of feminism of one, then that waiting does not help, but the only thing that helps is: to tell exactly what networks, which dependencies exist in a sector, which benefits, how decisions fall, how the posts are occupied, and, of course, where the money and resources go. That is exactly what we will do regularly for all areas of art and culture. A few words to the film industry, where this has been done in recent years, where one knows that this is a very man-dominated industry; but how much, one only noticed this at the moment when one really counted with the amazing result that 80 percent of the resources in the film go to men, and in the TV series – a particularly public segment in this industry – it is even 92 percent. That may be nice people for the most part, but still: This relationship determines what is defined as important, how topics are decided, how stories are developed, how characters and roles are described, and, of course, this affects our view of the world and our appearance on the world. That's why it's so important to narrate, that's why: Thank you, NEOS, for this initiative. I'm looking forward to the result. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39804	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39825	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Many Austrian artists are world famous and art-making women, no matter in which branch – fine art, filmmaking, cinema, theatre, music – are perceived in the public. Of course, it is not due to performance, but art also has a financial dimension. Art is part of the economy and, of course, it looks different – as in most businesses. Let us remain in the field of film – my colleague has explained this before, and it has also been very detailed in the request -: Only one in five films receives a production promotion in favour of women, four out of five promotions go to men. The same relationship is of course also found in the decision-making bodies of the Austrian Film Institute: only on each fifth chair is a woman sitting on the four other armchairs men. The fact that these circumstances come to light is, of course, due to this report, the movie Gender Report. Whether this is better or worse in the Austrian film than in other areas, we do not know, we only know that there is transparency. For us as SPÖ, it is important that we have an insight into the positions. Women should be equal in all areas of art and culture and above all be able to pursue their profession free of discrimination and discrimination. Therefore, this Gender Report is important, whether it is made every two years or every five years, as requested in the request. The report is a good basis for future action, but I would like to expressly say that nothing has yet to be done with the report alone. In the field of environment, it is in itself the case that it is specifically about the consumption of land to be used in concrete constructions, about constructions with houses, and to direct this, there is the Austrian architectural report specifically as an aid to the government. This is also noted in the Labour Convention, but nothing has happened in concrete terms until now. There are 13 hectares a day or, if you express it differently, 20 football fields to be used. Therefore: Yes to this gender report, combined with the hope that the Federal Government will do more in this respect than in environmental and climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39865	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Totter, for - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39886	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen at home! The Austrian art and cultural landscape is lively and extremely diverse. We owe this fact primarily to the many artists, but also to the great people who create and make art and culture possible. Of course, culturalists need the right framework conditions. They need a wise use of the necessary financial resources to make sense. The art and culture industry is particularly hard hit by the Corona crisis. Many direct and indirect support measures have fortunately been launched. I am particularly pleased that today the fund's disbursement of revenue losses is increased from 10 to 20 million euros due to Corona. The amendment of the Art Promotion Act also provides for the creation of a special funding fund in connection with Covid-19 of EUR 10 million, where certain sectors of the arts and culture sector are existentally at risk despite the exhaustion of other support measures to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. It is good that this has been successful and can thus provide further support to the cultural creators. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weratschig.]] Now to the present draft law: In addition to gender funding, in the field of culture, bodies have been properly occupied in a parity in recent times and art and culture reports have been designed in a gender perspective. Hardly a report is as detailed and transparent as the art and cultural report. For example, the gender distribution is mentioned at every Federal Museum. Thus, it is always clear how many artists have designed at a particular exhibition, or the number of curators is also mentioned. There is therefore a lot of data on gender distribution, but there is no gender report so far. We therefore consider regular gender reports to be an important basis in order to be able to implement evidence-based and effective measures. Gender policy is also concerned with fairness aspects, and all these fairness aspects are the subject of the new Fairness Working Group, which was set up together with the federal states. The focus is on fair pay, which also includes closing gender pay gaps. This is very important to us and also included in our government programme. The goals of the fair pay process were defined among other things: elaboration of concrete measures for fairer payment or social security of artists. As mentioned above, the report on art and culture is a very detailed report, in which the gender distribution is very precise. I would like to thank you very much for this work, i.e. for the writing of the report. I am pleased that a request has been made to ensure that a gender report is written and submitted by the Federal Government every five years. I hope that this proposal can now be accepted by all the political groups. Personally, I am of course pleased when art and cultural events can be visited again. I wish all art and culture creators much strength and, in particular, sustainability and I am sure that we will be able to cope with this crisis together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39940	Mrs Mag. State Secretary has been reported to speak. Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e39962	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am pleased that we can take another step towards gender equality in the field of culture with this item on the agenda. It is an issue that has been my concern for many, many years. In my section, we already have a very detailed gender report on film – Mrs Hamann has already explained – and I am pleased that we now have a multi-party proposal that will result in us having such a report every five years for the entire cultural area. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In principle, I am allowed to report on what has happened in my house in many ways in the cultural field over the past few years: We already have half-half of individual support, which means that the funding goes to exactly the same proportions of men and women. According to government programme, the implementation of gender budgeting in film promotion is in final planning and shortly before implementation. And also in our fairness process, which we have recently established together with the federal states and the IGs, this aspect will, of course, play a crucial role. The gender reports you will decide today, ladies and gentlemen, will provide a good basis for all these efforts. I thank you for this support, for this initiative and look forward to the implementation. Because today, as I believe, this is my last visit to the House today, I thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for the good cooperation, for the many dedicated discussions. Even in the House this difficult year, overhuman things were certainly done very often. I wish you happy Christmas, stay healthy and confident! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40005	Mrs Brandstötter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40026	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I will not be repetitive now and repeat what my colleagues have already said. I'm very glad it's us. has succeeded in bringing together a good application to ensure that the data situation on gender issues in the arts and culture sector will definitely improve. It is important to know who is shown in the film, in the theatre, in literature and in all further art and cultural sectors as often and above all as is shown. Today we have heard a lot about the data situation, Sibylle Hamann mentioned that only 20 percent of all cinema and television production promotions go to female directors, 80 percent go to men. I would also like to say at this point that the ORF itself also grants support. It is still GIS-funded and financed or co-financed also TV series. According to rumors – unfortunately, we cannot ask for it or look for it – even as most funding goes to men. Today we nominated a fantastic female Foundation Councillor. Anita Zielina is a very modern, experienced media manager and gives us great reason to hope that in the future we can continue to ensure more gender equality and a modern attitude in the ORF. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As already mentioned, we need the data situation on gender discrimination or how money is distributed in order to obtain evidence, in order to further develop instructions for action in order to take the right political action. To do this, we need detailed studies of how they already exist in the movie Gender Report. I am very pleased that we have succeeded, and I hope that we will work together to launch further initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40072	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[15:42:25]] Vote on agenda items 30 to 36
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40096	We shall now proceed to the votes. We shall come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Culture, which we shall, in turn, make separately. I ask the political groups: Can we vote? - Yes. Then we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 30: Draft federal law which amends the Federal Law on the establishment of a fund for the promotion of the contributions of the independent artists to the statutory social security, the Federal Law on the contribution of art promotion, the Federal Law on the establishment of a fund for bridging financing for self-employed artists, the Federal Law on the promotion of art from federal funds and the Federal Law on the safeguarding of art, cultural and sports life against further consequences of the COVID-19-Pandemie, including title and receipt in 540 of the supplements. There is a request for a separate vote by Mr Drozda and a request for a separate vote by Mr Reifenberger. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. We are therefore voting on Article 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this part of the bill to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I apologise and correct myself: accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule 5 as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking the approval of those members of the House who give this part of the bill an important sign. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign of approval. – That should now be unanimous. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen, who would also like to give their approval to this draft law at third reading, for a sign on this point. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on Agenda item 31: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 541 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 542 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. Agenda item 33: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 543 of the supplements. In turn, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – Same voting behaviour, accepted in a multi-vocal manner. We shall vote on agenda item 34: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention of the Council of Europe on the Community production of cinematographic films (revised) in 350 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on agenda item 35: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the State of Israel on the use of certain archival reproductions in 413 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who is for this, please give him a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. Agenda item 36: Opinion on the request by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 544 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 823/A(E). Whoever does that, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. Furthermore, the vote on the resolution on the Gender Report on Art and Culture annexed to the Committee's report 544 of the Supplements. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. [[124/E]] [[15:46:55]] 37. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1065/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Tashner, Mag. Sibylle Hamann, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the School Organisation Act, the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses, the Agricultural and Forestry Federal School Act, the Higher Education Act 2005, the Federal Sports Academies Act and IQS Law (570 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40270	We shall now proceed to item 37. There was no oral reporting. Mr Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40298	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard from the Health Committee today that there has been an application without content. Now we are dealing with a request from the teaching committee, which is so packed that he has awakened in me childhood memories of my grandmother's vegetable garden: herb and beet next to each other, herb and beet intertwined. High house! This request deals, among other things, with the transfer of school tests to the general school system. So there is something that is actually of no significance, because it is actually being carried out at our schools. One notes something that is already being carried out, i.e. salopp, the use of computers in our schools by our students. We might as well agree with this clarification or writing. The second point brings about changes in the settlement of grants to students for study stays abroad. This too is something that one might well support, there is only the question to ask: Is the university aware of what effort is actually involved in it? In the third point – and this becomes more difficult for us – it is about the Matura. This year's experience in the course of the Matura in Corona times is now expected to take part in the regular education system. We can all remember that this Matura has not done everything quite perfectly, for example, that students have given empty papers. I would like to read in this context, precisely because this is a change, a reform of the Matura, a press release of the AHS directors who have written in the title – I may quote – “Notamputation of the Matura”. They fear a “lister concerto” with a “matura without oral elements”. – We also have this fear that this will come back. A matura without oral elements is unthinkable for us, and everything has to be done to ensure that it does not happen: that precisely these oral partial examinations do not fall away. – Mr Federal Minister, you have promised to do so in committee. I ask you to try to keep it. The knowledge that our students, our students have acquired in the course of their training, want to present, and they want to be able to present it. We must give them and offer them, because this is also an important preparation for both study and later career. Finally, the fourth point, Hohes Haus, the so-called Nost, concerns the new upper level. Salopp said this is about ascending with not enough in the witness, in fact this Nost, this new upper level, but an old-fashioned construction site. Already in 2013 there was the first trial run, in 2017 it should have entered into force – in fact, it has been postponed several times, and today we are moving it again in principle. Mr Federal Minister, Take off this nost instead of continuing to work and hold on at this construction site! It doesn't work when we put a backpack on our children, so to speak, and put a load on them for years and, unfortunately, at the end of the way, find that they are standing without Matura. The abolition of the nost would be in the sense of our children, and it is therefore absolutely necessary from our point of view that you bring the nost away. Mr Federal Minister, there is still a question to be addressed to you at the end of the day. The “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” wrote yesterday evening in their online issue: ‘No longer Christmas holidays; Ministry of Education confirms: Holidays are neither preferred nor extended’. – Today I read on the online platform of an Austrian daily newspaper: ‘Prior Christmas holidays for Corona; Do school holidays come a week earlier?" – I would ask you to clarify this and also to say quite clearly how the situation is now, because it is not possible for us – I also tell you – that holidays are changed, that they are preferable or that they are extended.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40349	I should like to welcome the Federal Minister for Education quite cordially to our ranks. Mr Tashner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40373	Mr President. High house! Mr Brückl, I should like to thank you for actually presenting the contents very well, as well as the possible differences that exist. So this has actually been taken away from me, so I'm really connected to you for that. Maybe I can add a few footnotes. One concerns the semestered upper level – that's what you call the nost. Name is sound and smoke, but it is important that there are various ways in the upper level to design the teaching. There is also the possibility to shape it as it has been classic – so we have achieved something we always wanted: We have an autonomy, i.e. an autonomous decision on how school can be designed. So I see only advantages and no disadvantages. Whatever will remain is of course that in the end the knowledge will be checked as we want it to have. This is the Matura you just considered to be the second point. Well, it's not that bad with the Matura, I think we've actually introduced great improvements. You know, the Matura has started with much idealism as a central matura under Minister Schmied, and there have been more and more stumbling stones that have been cleared out more and more. Now, I think the stumbling stones are even so well cleared out that you can almost speak of a highway to the university at the Matura – in any case, this is the case in mathematics. I know that the efforts made by professional mathematicians in particular are extremely valuable. The examples are now set in such a way that one can no longer say with Seneca: No vitae, sed scholae discimus!, he said: Not for life, but for school we learn! - I can only tell you: Seneca even said: In supervacuum diffundimus, so: We disintegrate in a super vacuum, in a complete emptiness, in school. But we don't do all of this, but we're really doing the school now, so we can bring out wise people. The semestered upper level and also the improvements in the Matura are really very good projects – and on the other projects, Mr. Brügl, you said you could go along. So we would be pleased if you would go fully in terms of our children, our students and also in terms of the future of Austria. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40416	Mrs Hammerschmid is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40437	Mr President. Minister of Education! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, the diversity of things contained in this draft law has already been addressed. I would now like to focus only on the reform, on the innovation of the new upper level. With regard to the new upper level, there was a lot of criticism – some rightly, much wrong, as I mean. A problem was the already mentioned and mentioned parking tests that could be dragged along for a long time and then became a stumbling stone. That's now adjusted in this novel, and that's good that I'd mean. Similarly, some of the other things from the evaluation have been incorporated into the revision of this law, into these novels, and I very much welcome that. I would be pleased if this could happen in other areas, namely that scientific findings, evaluations and practice would be included in innovation, for example in the German classes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] - But that's a different story now. At any rate, I am glad that the semestered upper level, as it is now called, is getting a new chance, and I know – I look very specifically in this direction – that I must be very, very strongly connected to the Greens that this approach can continue to live on new upper-level/semestrated upper-level and get a new chance. To let them run out – and this has been in space for a long time – would have been really fatal, because it is a school that many children and young people really dream of: a school that supports students along their personal talents, their interests, their preferences, because they can choose modules because it is theme-oriented learning because it is project-oriented learning that is at the heart of it because each semester will be able to re-elect training priorities and much more. Students are accompanied by Coaches, individual instructional accompaniment is offered. Promotion of gift – often demanded, also by the liberals! – can take place. I can do tests at my speed: I can skip, I can learn faster when I'm better, but I can also need more time. This is not a fiction, it is living reality, ladies and gentlemen, at some schools in my own environment in 23. District. It is the Ursulins who do this – and for a long time – the high school in the Drashstraße does this, which is highly professional and really good. These are simply schools that have recognized the opportunity of innovative, modern, timely teaching and which have always taken advantage of these opportunities. That is how I imagine modern school: one that really promotes the talents and potentials of our young people. What we need is to get these school models to the fore. It just happened again: The liberals talk them badly, others are hesitant, and that's exactly the problem! This model would be so forward-looking, and we must manage to see what good can happen about peer learning, learning from directors to directors, from teachers to teachers. – I believe that only in this way can we get to the breadth, and I very much hope that we can succeed in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40488	Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40510	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Brückl called this a full package. That's quite right: There are some things inside, different things, good, important things, necessary things that we are now getting in the way. – A few keywords have already fallen. First point: We are creating a legal basis for e-learning, which has forced Corona to do. We did not necessarily choose that, but it was useful, and it will remain. Second point: Facilitation at Erasmus plus. This increases the mobility of students and students, even in the short term; we must wait for us to travel again. Tag Matura: That too is a point which has almost forced us to do and where Corona has accelerated developments. It is a sensible and good new regulation that we now have the achievements of the 8. Involved in class. This is a rule that will remain because it has proved itself. I would like to calm down Mr Brückl: I think that's not an amputation, but rather a wellness cure for the Matura. Tag Nost: I am very pleased that I share the enthusiasm of Mr Hammerschmid. We cleaned up a little at a construction site that had passed for a long time. I would also like to draw attention to an important detail which, like my colleague Hammerschmid, is particularly pleased with: We are actually opening the door to a real modularization and individualization next year; at this point I would like to expressly greet the Novi schools in this country, who have done important pioneering work for many years. This school experiment is now being transferred to the regular system and will hopefully be taken over by many other schools in the future, so that many young people can experience similar exciting experiences as they have done in these schools so far. In so far as: Your joy is entirely my joy, and I believe it is also the joy of the Federal Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40561	Mr Fässmann is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40582	Mr President. High house! Mrs Hamann, it is, in fact, my pleasure. I would also highlight the three points relating to this legislative matter. One is the transfer of ICT-based teaching to school law. We have learned to deal with ICT-based teaching and, I believe, the inclusion in school law is very useful. Even if we hope to have survived this pandemic sometime, the useful parts of Distancelearning will be used and carried on with certainty. The second thing I would like to stress is the further development of the final examinations, says Matura exams. Mr Brückl, there is no mention at all of the absence of oral examination. I am most likely as you think that for young people it is not only an experience, a challenge, but also a need to present themselves and their own ideas, the learner in front of an examination commission. This, I think, is a valuable component of the proof of maturity, of maturity at the end of the secondary level. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What we have changed in the final examination is the Audit Committee, the Matura Commission: It has been reduced and fewer external chairmen are needed. This has also proved to be useful, and we will take it over. The third is the partial right of schools to participate in the Erasmus programme themselves. This is a requirement of the European Commission, and we are doing so. And the last one, Mr. Brückl: Not everything in newspapers you always have to believe, a pre-reposition of the vacation is not the talk. In contrast to the German Leopoldina paper, to Germany, where schools were all in operation and they said: If we finish a little earlier!, we have experienced a lockdown in the school area for 14 days. I don't see any need to present the holidays. Thank you very much, and I ask for your approval of this matter of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40632	Mag. Fäsmann. I'm correcting myself: Mrs Mag. Salzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40653	Mr President. – I’ve wondered about the name, but You corrected it. Mr. Fässmann! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, but also dear spectators at home in front of the televisions! Let me begin by saying: I cannot leave the statement of Mr Eypeltauer – I do not see him now – who has spoken about the Service Law Novelle on the public service. I can't stop that! In the last few weeks and months, I have rarely heard such low-estimated and undifferentiated statements about the public service, as in this speech by Mr Eypeltauer on the Novelle Service Law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] From this point of view, I would like to thank all the colleagues in the public service, whether it be the police, whether in the field of pedagogy, the teachers, even the kindergartens, but also the colleagues of the Federal Army, who are now extremely good at testing and provide a perfect course. I would like to thank them all from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Let me now, however, also comment on this proposal, on the School Organisation Act. We will implement important regulations which have long been called for from school practice. It is really a concern for us to make practical and practical legislation and make meaningful legislative changes. You, Minister Fässmann, really have an open ear to the concerns of the schools. I would like to thank you once again because it is not a matter of course. The new upper level is an essential area, it has already been addressed, since 2012 it has existed. Mrs Hammerschmid, I am also not for the abolition because I see that there are schools in which she works well, which she also wants, but the fact is that there are schools in which it does not work well, and therefore it is important that we also have the opt-out option inside again now. We are developing the nost usefully. We have always warned that there are parking exams that lead to late school dropouts. We are now proposing a bar to this by regulating it wisely. We will have fewer semester exams, it is only possible to climb with a Not enough in the semester certificate. However, additional funding measures are also being taken, and the school change from the Nost School to a normal school and from a normal school to a Nost School is now also regulated. Further changes have already been heard by the previous speakers: the transfer of school tests, e-learning, the regular education system and the partial right in Erasmus plus – these are also essential steps. But let me end with another appeal. They all judge: We are very concerned about safe schooling and, above all, about the teaching of the presence. Please go and test! And I say that very consciously to the spectators at home: Please let yourself be tested and thus ensure your own safety, family safety, right now and at Christmas, as well as the safety of your colleagues at work! They all carry, each one of you contributes to ensuring that a safe school business is also possible in January of the new year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40722	As the rapporteur was speaking, I think that she no longer wants a final word. As agreed, we shall put the vote to the end of the negotiations on the reports of the Committee on Education. [[16:07:59]] 38. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (479, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing an Education Documentation Act 2020, and the compulsory school law 1985, the compulsory school examination law, the higher education law 2005, the higher education quality assurance law, the university law 2002 and the IQS law as well as the recognition and assessment law (571 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40762	We'll get to 38. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kucharovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40789	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We are now discussing the novelle of an educational documentation law, and we can fully understand the intention you had with the law at that time – before, I think, 18 years ago – and we can fully understand the idea of documenting education for the scientific purpose. That's what we can understand. What we cannot understand, however, Mr Minister, is the way in which this educational documentation law is implemented. We simply cannot understand the project with regard to dealing with especially with the storage of very sensitive data from children and young people. That is why the law is not made good enough from our point of view. We should not easily deal with the data of children and young people and have real, serious concerns. What are you gonna do? – You want to store the documentation of educational data, from very personal data of children and adolescents, up to the advanced adult age – up to 60 years. This is a triple of the situation, because at the moment we have 20 years – i.e. three times as long as we have. You would also like to know and manifest note notes, for example. They also manifest special pedagogical support needs and, as it were, extend their manifestation. I ask you: With what added value? You know, we still don't live in an inclusive world with an inclusive education, and it can still come from adults through the documented SPF need for stigmatizations of children and young people. They also allow access to and processing of biometric image data – for example, when thinking of student ID cards or student ID cards – and thus a little bit of normalization of the use of sensitive image data is established. Yes, there is a change which concerns, for example, the change from the social security number to a so-called field-specific personal identification, but that only takes effect – and there is also criticism – with the school year 2023/24. Mr Minister, it is not just our criticism, it is not just us, it is a number of institutions that criticize this law. I may mention the Court of Auditors, I may mention the Chamber of Labour, I may mention the Austrian high school, I may mention Epicenter Works, and there are some more. And very openly said: Unfortunately, these criticisms, which were expressed, have not been found in the law. That's why I'm asking. She's quite honest: Why do you plan a novel of the Education Documentation Act, which concerns the storage of data for a period of up to 60 years, namely the retention period, and have no data protection impact assessment, none we know? You mentioned in the committee that you have them anyway – but they are not transparently accessible to Parliament. They also rely on huge regulatory powers, for you yourself, for your place of business. This is also a critical point, because it is so to speak, intransparency and possible single entrances. I ask you again: What is meant by this stigmatization by the SPF, the need for special education? And: Why do the novelle also establish the first language for the first time, with which it also comes to a line of other, other languages? The Court of Auditors also criticises and asks what costs are actually incurred by the school-holder, the school-holder, the municipalities. There are no answers either, unfortunately. Mr Minister, these are questions about questions and really uncertainties and, as has been said, a manifestation of sensitive data from children and young people for a period of 60 years. All of this really deters us and is simply too insecure to us, namely, a too great uncertainty about children and young people and their data. So, Minister, we reject this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40853	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Totter, for - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40875	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen at home! With the decision of the present draft law, improvements are made in equal to eight federal laws. Let me just take out some of these innovations! The data link between schools guarantees the reduction of the administrative effort of host schools, as the inputs of all relevant data of the students are supported by automation. This applies in particular to regular school changes between the fourth and fifth, and the eighth and ninth levels, as well as underage changes. In future, relevant student and student-related data will be automatically processed so that they can already be requested from that school management on the occasion of registration at another school. In short: The aim is to facilitate the exchange of data between schools in the course of the school change, which leads to a discharge of the school lines. The government programme also provides for the establishment of a comprehensive education monitoring system by combining relevant data sources. This creates a solid, transparent and uniform data base as the basis for evidence-based decisions in the context of quality assurance in education. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hamann.]] The redesign of the Education Documentation Act also achieves a better clarity of data processing by separating the processing of student and student-related data from that of student data. Overall, all measures are designed to reduce administrative effort and transparency and comprehensibleness. While the Federal Government and the Federal Legislator thus carry out their tasks according to the government programme, many educators with their school boards contribute to the fact that school can succeed very well in times of crisis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To give just one example: In the last days, the corona tests for educators and educators have taken place. Some 77 percent of these mass testing took place in Styria. I would like to thank you very much at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear that, in times of crisis, measures must be taken to reduce the crisis. Reasonable handling is required by all of us. In the House of Lords, it is often demonstrated that children and young people must be well guided by this crisis and that they should not suffer any damage from this crisis. But what causes harm to the children? – Of course, the entire Covid crisis is not sure at all. If then the assurances add to whether a mask is to be worn, yes or no, whether a test is to be carried out, yes or no, then one certainly does not please the children. Children need adults who show them a clear attitude and give them a clear way. If the reference persons – parents, teachers – follow the measures, it will not be difficult for children to comply with them. What you are doing here for tactical and opposition-political reasons is challenging everything, putting any action into jeopardy and boycott, and I lack any understanding for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I wonder how you can represent and answer this to our children. I am proud of our pedagogues and of the school lines, which are now very skilled in the time of the severe pandemic and despite the great uncertainty of your part and with great skill maintain the balance between maximum health protection and professional pedagogy. This gives our children a hold, orientation and confidence, and I hope that we will be able to cope well with this global health crisis despite your unreasonable attitude.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40966	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e40987	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In advance to the Ladies Totter and Salzmann, who here a plea in the sense of: Go to the mass tests so that schools can stay open and present lessons can take place!, have held: Yes, we do, and we do not make every measure ridiculous. However, I do not understand why today you did not agree to our request that there should be regular tests for teachers in the future. So what do you want? - Yes, it is! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You may not have heard that. To the Education Documentation Act: In principle, of course, we are very much in favour of collecting educational data and knowing how educational careers are going. We also want – above all we NEOS to do so; I hope you too – that the education administration is more focused on this data, that its work depends on it, and that it is also used as an assessment basis for various policy actions. So it's not about what we're talking about, but it's about how the whole law comes about. In our world, it would be necessary to have a data protection assessment on the table before the legislative decision, which will also allow us to see what risks there are in this comprehensive data collection, which is now also available. 60 years of storage, there is, and that this is discussed in advance and is simply clear what that means. That has not been the case. We very much criticize that. Furthermore, the important question is who can evaluate which data for which purpose with which to use which criteria. That is not clear to us either. Of course, it is understandable that Statistics Austria receives this data in order to draw a comprehensive picture of the Austrian level of education. However, it is also a great link between a variety of personal characteristics, which, depending on the combination, could also allow conclusions to be drawn on the identity of individuals. I am concerned that in the future the Ministry of Education will have a data pool and a database in which the results are stored, for example the new measurement of competence, the school notes, information and educational background of the parents of each student and of every student, without any clarity, where these data are stored, which specific purposes they serve in the ministry, which goals are pursued with them and who may research them. In my opinion, Mr Hamann is still speaking, and perhaps you too will certainly come up with the argument that everything is under the law of data protection law and that the data are stored safely and well preserved that the Federal Government looks particularly well at these data. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] Therefore, I can only remind you of the supplementary register, the GIS and the registrations for the mass tests – and for this reason we do not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41054	Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41075	There are a few questions about this law in the room. In the social media, fear has also been expressed that this is a monitoring law. The colleague from the SPÖ has just said that there is a slight collection of data, with the suspicion that the data would also be published. I can say two things: With this law we increase data security. We replace the social security number, which has been used so far, with a personal identification. That means that we protect the data much better than before and also enable a much better anonymization. The second thing we do with this law is: We are creating a much better data base for research and thus also for education policy, because in fact – I am especially addressing NEOS – an evidence-based education policy is exactly what we always demand. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] About the 60-year-olds: It is certainly important that – naturally anonymized – one can track over 60 years how education biographies develop. Children are not finished as soon as they leave school. We are always talking about lifelong learning, life continues to develop. What factors affect whether the children are at the end of the education process, so to speak, or whether they may be finishing a degree later, all these are important information. We need to know how resources are used in our education system, we need to know what good and what less good results are and where and why children and young people are lost. Two areas that have also been briefly addressed were particularly important to us. The first languages were mentioned. That is exactly where there have been massive gaps in the data collection, which have been bad and harmful, as we think. We have been very committed to raising the initial languages of the children much better than before. This was also an explicit wish of Statistics Austria. So far, only German and not German have been distinguished. It was not at all different how well a child can have his own mother tongue when it is alphabetized in his own mother tongue. All of this should now be systematically recorded – and that is progress. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second example, which was also particularly important to us, is the data base for the opportunity index. We all want to know where structural disadvantages exist in our education system and how to use resources specifically to counter them – and for that we need a better data base. That's why we've been working to make it stand in there. In this sense, I believe it is a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41132	Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall, as agreed, vote at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Education. [[16:24:06]] 39. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (480 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a Federal Law on the Financing of the Digitalisation of School Education (SchDigiG) (572 d.b.) 40. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 1076/A(E) by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr MA MLS, colleagues on fair laptops for students (573 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41176	We now come to Agenda items 39 and 40. The debates will be carried out again under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41203	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the item on the agenda is that we are students of the 5th and 6ths. To equip school levels with tablets and laptops. - So far, so good. In my request, I was concerned that these tablets and laptops are refurbished, speak of being reprocessed, because this saves a lot of raw materials and resources, which are partly created under terrible circumstances, for child labour, with the profits that often result from illegal degradation, in part civil wars or warlords. So I wanted these devices to be refurbished; I wanted them to be guaranteed to be repaired; I wanted it to be clear that then, when it comes to disposal at the end of the life span, the disposal fits ecologically and socially; and I wanted, that, in general, sustainable use of such ICT devices is also taught. We have found ourselves here for a joint proposal, which is now not quite as great as my, but absolutely okay. That is why I am glad that we will decide today. Maybe a few of you remember: I mentioned yesterday in a speech in the course of the debate on Sustainable Development Goals that there was a webinar in the Albanian Parliament, how to implement the SDGs in Parliament, which Parliament can contribute to implementation. The Albanian Members have asked me to make a contribution from the Austrian Parliament, and I have taken this request as an example to show how many Sustainable Development Goals the proposal actually concerns. It's amazingly many. With regard to the big goals, the aim is to reduce inequalities within societies, because poorer children as well as richer children will receive good tablets and laptops. The aim is to create sustainable patterns of consumption and production and to look at what can be avoided in terms of the use of new raw materials. It is about Objective 15, the sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, because we are less exploiting and thus also avoiding pollution in the land and loss of biodiversity. And this is about the objective 17, international cooperation, because we are also creating something like a awareness of global citizenship when we teach young people what it means to deal responsibly with such raw materials in their devices. In addition, I have found twelve sub-targets, targets that I can't list in detail now. This extends to the question of whether women and men alike have access to IT. This is about closing the digital dividend between the sexes. The proposal concerns many, many other objectives. To find out which objectives of the application were positive in the case, it took about 10 minutes. I believe that this is a good example of how we could afford it, and it should be remembered that in the front pages of all the laws, we are going to make a check on the effect – in the positive and in the negative sense – of the present law, which this bill has on the SDGs. This exercise shows that this is feasible and no official needs to be shy of it, as the infinitely superfluous bureaucracy could be. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41248	The Federal Minister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41270	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Bayr, your speech actually leads me to the need to take immediate corrective action because you started the debate on the law on the digitization of schools with the statement that students of the 5th and 6ths. School level with tablets. It's a – don't be evil! – extremely shortened presentation of this law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] Yes, it is about hardware, tablets and the connection of schools to high-performance networks. But it's a lot more about software to ensure the quality of the software, because not everything you might imagine is the right thing to do. It is about the development of learning platforms; it is about the further development of content libraries; and it is finally – and this is the most important – about the further and further training of teachers who need to know how to: implement a new pedagogy, which the digital records, on the corresponding devices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] I would just ask you the next time you initiate your speech and come to speak to a law, not to do so by means of an extremely shortened presentation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41324	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Deckenbacher for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41345	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! At the outset, I would like to quote our Minister for Digitalization, Mr Minister, who said: “How we and our children learn has changed over the last decades. Digitalisation and education are closely associated today. It is important to me that we train the next generation with and through the means of digitization. Now we are laying the foundation stone for a new world in education." In the context of the Corona crisis, the urgent need for the expansion of digitalisation in schools once again became apparent. Digitalization has a daily impact on our lives, on how we communicate, how we work, but also how we learn together. This was a very big challenge in home schooling, in distance learning for all those involved in school life. At this point, I would like to refer to the colleagues of NEOS, especially Mr Eypeltauer, whom I do not see at this point: Please stop defaming the public service and the great work of colleagues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't know what your Education City Council in Vienna would say about this. [[Abg. Loacker: We don't have that! Listen!]] Mr. Fässmann, Minister of Education, presented the eight-point plan for the implementation of the digital school in June 2020. In order to create the conditions for them, digitally supported teaching and innovative teaching and learning formats are integrated into the education system in a large and sustainable way. Allow me briefly to sum up the key points of the Government's proposal: We will, as the Minister has already mentioned, be the students from 5th and 6th years of age. Equipment school level with digital terminals. Digitalization concepts are being developed at the locations. Of course, the creation and expansion of uniform learning and work platforms are also essential. The Digital School service portal will enable digital communication between parents, teachers and students. It is important to us that all pupils are equipped at a uniform technical level. Of course, we want to include environmental, social and sustainability factors in the procurement of digital devices. Some countries expressed concerns that they could be held responsible for remote administration. These concerns are unfounded, because the rewording of the passage to the remote administration, which was carried out after the assessment of the government template, merely clarified data law and, of course, the tasks of the school holders remain unaffected. Many of us have benefited from Bruno Kreisky's schoolbook campaign in the past century. This has changed and shaped the school. In addition, digital teaching will complement the school in the 21st century. ==References== This is a big step; a big step for school, an important and essential step in preparing our children and young people for the world of work. It is an opportunity and an incentive to inspire even more young people, especially girls, for technical professions and professions in the IT field. But allow me to emphasize one thing: Digitalization does not replace people, it expands the possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41388	Mrs Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41409	Yes, with this digitalization law, we are indeed taking a big step. I believe that it is not yet as properly transmitted to the public as this step actually is. I still read sometimes in the newspaper, there are now much too late to order some laptops. – No, in the future every child will get when it is about ten years old as soon as it enters the 5. School level comes, a tablet or laptop as work equipment for the school. This is really a huge step that we are taking here, which cannot be valued high enough in its historical dimension. [[Abg. Martin Graf: First the mask...!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not just about hardware; and I already know that the SPÖ doesn't like to hear when mentioned in the context of Kreisky, but I would like to put it there. Since the 1970s, each school child has received uniform, new schoolbooks ordered by the school, and each child will receive a new, uniform, high-quality tablet or laptop at the beginning of the fifth school year. It's not free. There will be 25 percent self-sufficiency, with social aid, but private use is also possible. There is, of course, not only a distribution of hardware, but, of course, an expansion programme at schools as far as technology is concerned, but also, of course, a service portal and training programmes for teachers. It must be clear to all of us that in this area we are talking about decades of failure that we have to pick up, of a field that has really been neglected for a very long time and on which many children have stayed on the track, which we unfortunately noticed this year. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Calls and calls between Deputies Heinisch-Hosek and Disoski.]] But now we're gonna bet this with a huge order. It is, as Mr Bayr rightly said, a huge procurement programme, and of course we also have a responsibility in terms of sustainability, and we will look at it, of course, because we are the Greens. We will ensure that sustainability, reparability, the quality of the equipment, the energy consumption, the guarantee and also the disposal are looked at, and we are firmly convinced that this will be particularly important to the children and young people who will work with these devices, because they are the ones who have gone to the streets last year for the climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41462	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the presentation of the teaching committee. [[16:37:31]] 41. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 970/A(E) by Mr Mag. Sibylle Hamann, Mag. Dr. Rudolf Taschner, colleagues, on measures to reduce the negative effects of disadvantaged groups in the field of education created by the corona situation (574 d.e.c.) 42. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1034/A(E) by Mr Mag. Mr Sonja Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, on the plan for Matura 2021! (575 d.a.) 43. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1074/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, colleagues on Corona Action Package for the Future of Our Children (576 d.b.) 44. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1075/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, colleagues on Corona Action Package on safety in schools and kindergartens (577 d.b.) 45. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 1095/A(E) by Mr Hermann Brückl, MA, colleagues on sufficient budget resources for school closure and lockdown losers (578, B.C.) 46. Point Report by the Committee on Education on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 47. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 997/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues in education loss prevention in the Corona crisis (580 d.b.) 48. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 998/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on teacher education in the Corona crisis (581 d.b.) 49. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 1121/A(E) by Mr Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on ventilation and air cleaning in school classes (582 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41604	We come to points 41 to 49 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41632	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a comprehensive agenda item with a total of eight opposition requests in front of us. Two things have these eight opposition requests in common: Firstly, they call for all measures to compensate for the negative effects of the lockdown on school closures, because we all know from a number of studies how large the loss of education of children due to these lockdowns are, but also the psychological and social problems associated with them. The measures we demand from the opposition range from funding lessons to opportunities to catch up in summer to safety concepts, test strategies for educators, but also for all suspicions at schools, so that school lessons can work safely, more support staff, social workers, psychologists, upgrading and strengthening elementary pedagogy, early planning on matura and so on. One might think these are thoughtful measures, thoughtful proposals on the part of the opposition, important measures that all parties can agree to. That brings me to the second point. In fact, all these applications combine something: They were rejected, although, as has already been said, many studies demonstrate the problems and the size of the educational deficits. It really surprises me. Why? – The Ministry of Education wants to strengthen its budget for the EU, namely the React Fund. So far, so good, I welcome that, you don't have to discuss it at all. However, the fact that the government parties have to call on the ministers to do so makes me wonder again. They call on the Minister to act, to seek out these funds accordingly. It also surprises me that at a time of crisis like this one of the ministers does not just take the issue in hand and says: So, we're doing something! We need measures to combat the crisis, now and quickly, so that the deficits do not become even more! – What are you waiting for, Minister? Other ministers, other departments, too. In agriculture there are additional resources, in tourism there are additional means of crisis, in research there are additional means of crisis, nationally and internationally. Another problem comes with React. Okay, the budget on the EU side has now been decided, including the crisis budgets to combat the crisis, but we do not know exactly when these resources will come. We need to submit. To go through the procedure, to see that the funds come to Austria, that may take months. That is, the measures you will take will arrive at the end of the school year in the classroom. It's too late for me. The educational deficits are there. Everything has to be done to pick up as soon as possible. The fact that the opposition parties' requests are consistently rejected, I really think, and to force them into an agenda of 73 other items and to put them on a agenda item together is just as immense.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41677	Mr Minnich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41698	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! A warm greeting to God to all spectators, at this item in particular to all students, teachers and parents! Education in times of Corona: Let me start with something positive. The positive thing is that there are two fundamental consensus between all parties represented in Parliament: firstly, that our education is facing enormous challenges in times of pandemic, and secondly, that much has to be done. That there are different approaches and concepts as to how things are, lies in the nature of the matter and is no longer surprising. It is important to me at this point to clarify a few things. First: The current challenges are based on a global pandemic and not, as many people want, on the government. I don't think this is a bad situation. Secondly, Our thanks and acknowledgment is due to the educators who have to put on very new concepts, to the parents who have to play a new and more serious role in the education of their children, and to the children themselves, who experience a kind of knowledge transfer that is not common to all of us and which we have never experienced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know what challenges they all face and how difficult the situation is. – Thank you all for taking this so well! Thirdly, The policy seeks everything to support: digitisation in the education sector, the Matura roadmap to create planning security, and, yes, this includes the integration of the ideas, proposals and concepts of the opposition parties. In this context, however, I must ask that we take a special line in education, because for political games, the formation of our youth is simply too important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] We all have the same goal, namely the best possible education for our children in our country. With Mr Taschner's and Mr Hamann's motion for a resolution, we are aimed at supporting disadvantaged groups in the field of education, because it is important to look at it. With the support, financed by the EU's provided pots, we act in the area where failure is most difficult to compensate for. – Thank you for this request and the broad support for it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, many thanks to all in the field of education: to students, teachers, representatives of interests, directors, parents' associations and, of course, to parents. You do great things, you are the heroes of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41760	Mr Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41781	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Now I don't know – the ÖVP tells us to pull on a line, wide support and education is so important. [[Abg. Hammerschmid: Yes, exactly!]] My colleague Hammerschmid has already told you: There are eight opposition requests that have only one in mind, one in common, namely the well-being of our children, and what are you doing? – You reject all these requests in series, three requests from the NEOS, applications from the SPÖ, applications from us, and now you tell us: We are supposed to get on a line, and broad support and education is so important. - I don't know, I think I'm in the wrong movie. Something's wrong! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] You constantly reject us, but we only criticise that we would be destructive, we would not have any proposals. I am thoughtfully back in the vegetable garden of my granny; before I was standing between herb and beet, now I am in front of these beautifully planted tomato stows, various stocks, and all have one thing in common: It's a variety. All these applications have one thing in common, they are based on the fact that we have in the days of Corona the good of our children in mind. I have to tell you if you align the opposition closed, we should pull on a strand: Take our requests or at least deal properly with them! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I just need to look at the time that has passed since school began since September. This time was for our students, for the teachers, for the parents a time of confusion, it was a time of uncertainty, it was a time of unclearness and it was also a time of criticism, especially a criticism of the government, because much was simply not done properly and not properly. I can remind you again: On its own account and against all expert opinions, the Federal Chancellor closed the schools, de facto. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Again, so that someone from the government parties does not get out of here and actually want to correct me or have to: The schools were closed. Just because they were not locked up, they were still closed because there was no teaching. As I said, our children were sent into isolation, into social isolation, into social isolation. In our children, fears of the future have arisen, motivation has been lost, the daily structure of our children has been lost, and educational residues and educational gaps have become apparent. Education losses have simply arisen, and the responsibility has been shifted to parents, as so often in this crisis. Our boy was removed from the social ground under the feet, contact with her friends was limited to smartphones and computers, which is still the case. High house! This missing direct contact with equal ages, with friends can be replaced with nothing. Our children were taken from sports, they were taken to music, they were taken from every kind of community leisure. That is why there are these opposition requests, even because we do not want our children to continue to suffer that not what needs to happen. I now have two requests to make. One calls for the necessary budget for accompanying measures to ensure that there are no children who will become loss of education. It is about us taking real financial resources to help our children in a targeted way so that, as we discussed yesterday in the current hour, no corona generation arises. The second request I made concerns the summer schools. Let's do summer schools! Let us offer our children this summer school – for all the children who want it, and not only for those who today depend in German, not only for those who need German support, but for everyone! The costs must also be taken over, it cannot be that this depends on the parents. There is a need for a proper payment of the teaching staff employed there. In this request, we also demand that planning be completed in good time, that is, until the end of the winter semester, so that parents, children and teachers can prepare themselves properly. It is so important that we offer our children a future perspective! High House, our children need courage, they need confidence, and of course they also have to be taken a bit far from us by the hand and accompanied. I appeal to you, dear members of the government groups: Support Please do not let us know that we are destructive here! Don't tell us constantly that we should get on a line, because we do it – we opposition parties, for example, do it together. It would be appropriate for you to follow us once too. I would therefore ask you to agree to our requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41839	Mrs Hamann has once again been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41860	Ladies and gentlemen! I believe in the analysis of this time, namely that Corona, especially in the school and education systems, has left quite a snow of devastation, we can quite agree. It is true that this does not apply to all, some children do well at home, but for most it is a painful space to be alone, to learn alone on the screen, not to have friends around themselves and without personal support from teachers. That's perfectly clear. It is also quite clear that we now have to do a lot of things as soon as we can, there we are, I believe, also agree. We must invest in relations in schools, we must do a lot of repair work – not only at the emotional and social level, but also at the intellectual level. It is also quite clear to all the people who are here in space that we need time and energy to do so, but of course we also need to take money in our hands. On the requests: What can we do about it? – Over the months, a number of proposals have been met in the Committee. Some have been overtaken by reality in the meantime, others are so that one rejects certain details, but takes up the basic ideas and implements them in other ways. I would now like to add a few points where we can agree that their implementation is necessary and needs to be made. It is very important to support programmes for young people looking for apprenticeships; we know how the situation on the labour market is at the moment. We will also need mentoring programmes, as there are incentives for companies – all this is already being done. It's very important: We will need funding hours, especially for the children and young people, who are now in graduation classes, for the emerging maturants and maturants. In the last few months, the upper-level students have lost most of their education, and as far as I know, it will start after Christmas. In the field of compulsory schooling, of course, we must do a lot, especially for disadvantaged children. For example, there are already the Buddy Programs, which are now to be expanded in a massive way to provide individual learning support. All this is already in progress. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What was a very special concern to me is and will remain is the promotion of language. This will have to be a special focus, because we know that in isolation at home, language competence is particularly affected if one lacks relations. The summer schools have already been addressed. We agree that this was, of course, a very successful programme, which should be expanded and many more children should benefit. It is to be extended and incorporated into other offers, not only in summer, but also in other holidays; all of this is already being conceived. We will need money for that, as already mentioned. There are also EU funds for this purpose, specifically from the React Fund, which has been set up for this purpose. In addition to money from the budget, which we will also need, we will seek these funds. Of course, we will also need teachers who do overtime and additional services, we will need students and, of course, we will also need NGOs who have already done very important work in this field, both with professionals and with volunteers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] All these points show that this is a social task that we will only deal with together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41933	Mrs Künsberg Sarre has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e41955	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Fässmann, I have already told you in committee that in principle I have great confidence in you and also in your home, that you will be able to come to EU funds without the request of Parliament. We have confidence in you - the two government parties obviously not, otherwise they would not make this request. What's that about? – The Federal Government has failed to forget – whatever you want to call it – to budget anything in the Austrian budget for all the deficits already mentioned, which have arisen or been reinforced due to the corona crisis. The React funding pot is now being used, which my knowledge has not even been decided in the EU Parliament – but perhaps you can say more about it. [[Federal Minister Fässmann nodds.]] This is now being used to cover all that is not foreseen in the Austrian budget. Nor is it – you have already said in committee – that I just want Austrian money. It does not matter whether the Austrian or European funds are, because the money does not have a mesh, but it is as if all of this was fixed and everything could be carried out with these funds, I think it is incorrect. I do not know that there may already be an agreement within the Austrian Federal Government as to how these React funding funds should be divided among the ministries. Perhaps you can say a little more, because Mrs Deputies Hamann is already distributing the money for funding lessons, summer schools and apprenticeships, as if it were all fixed – and there is nothing fixed for my knowledge! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If there is an agreement in the Federal Government, you might also be able to do more about how much money it is and what exactly is being done with it. I am also sorry that all opposition applications are repeatedly postponed or rejected. I think we have all put good proposals on the table, but it is actually not being discussed at all, it is simply being rejected. It's not like we all suck something out of our fingers: We NEOS have already called for a 450-million-euro solution package, which is not simply a number that sounds particularly great, but it is based on data and calculations. You might as well come to us and ask: What exactly would be You imagine, or how do you see that? There is no cooperation at all, and I am very, very sorry. I would really ask you to tell the React Fund more concrete than just: That's what we're going to do and that's what we're gonna do. I would like to know exactly what it is about, how many millions are planned for it and, above all, when it will start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42022	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42043	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister, today you can take a look at something, because the school package that the SPÖ wanted to set up here is thoughtful and inclusive – but unfortunately, inclusive approaches are mostly rejected by the government. In addition to organized funding units, additional school psychologists and school social workers, a long-term index of opportunities – which seems to me very well-known – the expansion of day-to-day schools and the upgrading of elementary pedagogy can indeed be found, without much call, the point of inclusion. I quote: “Every child should have the chance of having a match. Including schools must become the rule case in the Austrian school system. This is the basis for a prejudice and barrier-free society." However, I would like to take this opportunity to say: No child should be dependent on our generosity to get a chance to co-operate! What this government is not aware of is that every child has a right to education. I am already at the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled, which contains the following Article 24: "The Contracting States recognise the right of people with disabilities to education. In order to achieve this right without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities, the Contracting States shall ensure an inclusive education system at all levels and lifelong learning.’ The same article also states that people with disabilities should not be excluded from the general education system due to their disability. Just to remember: Austria is one of the Contracting States. It is your duty to comply with this Convention. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, it is sad enough that Austria needs this convention, because it is also unmistakable in our constitution, in Art. Paragraph 7 1. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] This government, first of all our chancellor, seems to think little of rethinking education. He keeps the population small so that it can follow and be guided, but he does not have the right to do so. So I closed with a quote from Marsha P. Johnson, which I found in my mailbox yesterday's International Day of Human Rights: “No one has all rights until everyone has rights.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42108	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the presentation of the teaching committee. [[17:01:47]] 50. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1035/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, colleagues in school administration (583 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42144	That's what we're going to get to 50. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42174	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian school principals are extremely demanding at this time. Many coronavers currently have to be carried out in addition to the daily tasks. School closures have been arranged, they have had to implement the distance learning abruptly, carry out multiple parent surveys on schooling, prepare and accompany the organisation of shifting and graded teaching, prepare constantly changing care plans for the care groups, implement hygiene plans, monitor and document infectious events and carry out daily numerical entries in portals of the ministry. There is an increase in parental work due to concerned requests due to the multiple changes and now also massive antagonisms due to the masquerade obligation among the ten to 14-year-olds. That too, unfortunately. All these tasks and obstacles are in addition to the daily tasks. There is no time left for the main tasks and for the educational tasks at all. Thank you so much for all those who are making the most of this situation right now. This is one of the most difficult situations in the school business that I can remember from my 25 years of service as a teacher and school principal. Many of my colleagues are really on their own with the wealth of tasks. Our present request therefore concerns the discharge of the headmasters by the Federal Ministry of Education to suspend the piloting and additional testing to be carried out this year. These also cause a huge effort without Corona, and now the planning, organization and implementation is extremely difficult. Even the OECD has postponed the Pisa study to the next year, so the Federal Ministry should follow this example and, for example, suspend the IKMP. Apart from the situation of the headmasters, the situation for our children is extremely stressful, so there can only be fake results. Unfortunately, our request for measures to prevent school closures was rejected many weeks ago. However, in the case of lockdown, these measures could have prevented school closures. My colleagues deserved support. They really would have to be under the arms during this challenging period of time. Now it would be time not to give them at least more tasks, so I would urge all of you here on behalf of hundreds of school leaders to agree to our request and to suspend all pilotings, competence measurements and also the Mika-D tests for this school year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42220	Next word reported: Mr Johann Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42241	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! In this application, the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research, is asked to relieve the school boards, especially for the school year 2021. Non-necessary pilot projects and testing are to be suspended. However, I would like to say a few things about this. Since 2018, the Ministry of Education has placed a very strong focus on the discharge of school lines from administrative tasks. In addition, a reduction is already very strong by issuing fewer opportunities and also round letter to the schools. We all know and know the challenges and burdens in the field of compulsory education. But you also have to say: The compulsory education sector is an area in which the countries are very responsible. It is not always and everywhere the Federation is responsible and responsible for everything. But one thing I also have to say: The Federal Government does not go into cover or dive away. On the contrary: In July of this year, the Federal Minister, together with the AMS, launched an initiative aimed at providing administrative forces to secretaries, with two thirds of the costs being borne by the Federal Government. It is therefore possible to ensure a discharge there in the school administration, in the administration and so on, where the situation has been condemned. It is planned to use about 1,000 administrative forces there. But one thing is clear: You have to be careful in the whole situation in connection with Corona. All these measures – the suspension of pilot projects, testing and so on – must not go at the expense of school and education quality. That's, I think, clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] All colleagues on the ground, the school boards, the educational directorates, all staff in the Federal Ministry work with full concentration, with full force In this difficult time, too, the best in terms of education is possible and can be offered. That's a sincere, warm thank you, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42292	There is now no mention of this. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. The vote on this item on the agenda will take place at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Education. [[17:08:21]] 51. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 1085/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, Members of Parliament on the three-year-old College of Elementary Education at Bafep Mureck (584 d.b.) 52. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1010/A(E) by Members Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on the extension of the Colleges for Elementary Education (585 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42342	We shall now proceed to points 51 and 52 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42369	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The kindergarten is the first educational institution. I think we have repeated this sentence as opposition in recent years incredibly often, and yet it is still the subject. But why is this so important, including what NEOS have called for in their request? – Elementary teachers are system holders. This is what we have seen this year, we have seen in recent years, we see that every day when they guarantee high-quality education and care for children across the country every day and simply do their work great. Pedagogues are also extremely important when we talk about the compatibility of family and work, because families and especially women and children should have a right to a full year-round free childcare place, and that at a very early age – and we always stress it again and again – because only in this way can we ensure that family and profession can actually be well reconciled. What does that mean? – Of course, this means more staff for a professional group in which already staggering personnel are already being sought. A solution would, of course, be a comprehensive approach throughout Austria College of Elementary Education. People who choose this career path only later – for example, from 18 onwards – will be more likely to hang in this profession in part or in fact, fill them with heart blood, than those who do so at the age of 14 and then maybe later study will do something else et cetera. This is really a great advantage of these colleagues and it is extremely important to cover this demand when we talk about family and work compatibility at some point. To be honest, we like to expect an increase in demand and not a fall in demand. That people can become unemployed anyway and then take care of the children themselves is not our access when it comes to elementary education, because it is about high-quality education. We want to see children in educational institutions because it is about high-quality teaching and things being taught, and that is important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] But we also talk about poor working conditions, part-time employment, extremely poor pay and often too large groups. All these things cause precarious employment conditions, in which exactly these system holders work every day. That's why we say quite clearly: With the extension of the colleges, with broken working conditions and here with a proper payment for elementary pedagogists! [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs Krisper and Künsberg Sarre.]] We would have liked to help the request to a majority; the government parties have decided differently. Unfortunately, we have no majority as opposition. I think we're going to stay together. More quality elementary education for our country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42426	The next item is Mrs Romana Deckenbach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42448	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! There are two requests for this item on the agenda. One of them is Mr Rauch's request that the training gap in the field of elementary education in the South Styria region be closed by autumn 2021. Mr. Rauch! Yes, this situation is to be improved. This is also our goal and we are quite clear with you, because as an Upper Austrian Vienna woman I am of course also the southeast Styria at my heart. However, to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to explain here once again why we voted against this request in committee. Already in June, the Ministry of Education launched an initiative to create a location in the southeastern Styria and to launch its implementation. Mr. Rauch! Yes, Mureck has already been confirmed by the Minister of Education for a work-related colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In another request, which we agree with, we also say quite clearly that it is our goal to strengthen the training of existing elementary pedagogists. The work programme must be extended accordingly to the educational institutions for elementary education, in order to also open up the possibility of a career entry for cross-border students, as practice shows that more and more people are ready for this training in the second way. One thing is clear – yes, Mrs Holzleitner, I would like to say this again: The primary educational institutions are the first educational institution of our children, and therefore they bear a very great responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42493	Next speaker: Mr Walter Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42517	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Mrs Deckenbacher, I would have expected that Mrs Totter from my constituency, from my district, will come to the speaker's desk, because she has also rejected this in committee, but sells very, very great regionally, what the ÖVP does not do in this area – of course also that this three-year-old colleague will come to Mureck, but only 2021 to 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Totter]] Since you are holding this spectacle here – you too, Federal Minister: First, you reject the request in the committee, and then you say – only after a two-way demand, where these colleagues are supposed to come to Styria – Hartberg and Mureck. So if this has something to do with parliamentarianism, I say: Good night, parliamentarianism in Austria! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Quite honestly, one can excite this at all levels, but such a spectacle can be taken off when it comes to elementary education, to the education of our children, to the essential elements of our education, I find very, very behavioral and actually very, very tedious. If you do not agree to opposition requests, you should at least try to produce an amendment on the part of the government parties – but you were not even able to do so. Quite honest: We wish ourselves more seriosity, more openness and more honesty in the field.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42563	"Sorry" is not an expression that we use in a parliamentary debate. Next speaker: Mrs Sibylle Hamann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42587	Madam President! Once again, Mr. Federal Minister! I find it interesting: On the basis of the speeches I have heard, it seems to me that there is a conflict which is not at all there, because I have now actually heard a great unity in which one can read how much has been done in recent years in the assessment of the importance of elementary education in the country. What Mr Holzleitner said earlier that the opposition would have said for years how important kindergartens are not only as a place of care but as the first educational institution: That doesn't say the opposition alone anymore, the government says. That's what we all agree – and that's a good thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] We also agree that it needs expansion, quality and educational standards. We all know what we are missing, namely the staff for it. It doesn't grow on trees and you can't read it on the street. We know there are bottlenecks everywhere. At present, we cannot increase either quantity or quality, even if we wanted to, because we do not have the people to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] . Exactly, I fully agree with you, so the great training offensive is the change and change of all reforms. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] . I fully agree with you that we are now taking on exactly the great training offensive for elementary education. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That was one of the greens' hearts in the government negotiations. It's one of the big chunks in the government program. [[Abg. Worm: Since when do you have a heart?]] We are now also looking forward to a NEOS request that has landed in the committee and that is exactly what we want to take. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We have been able to thank God for making a common request, since we all want to do the same. There are already very concrete steps. We have already learned from the Minister that there will be five new locations for colleagues, two in the Styria – Mureck, Hartberg – and two more locations were also mentioned. Why colleagues? – That has already been mentioned: We have found that the five-year training at the Bafeps is inefficient, that the young people do not stay in the profession they have learned that it is better for adults – who come from other professions – to know more precisely what they want – to have a little more experience of life, as we need exactly this experience of adult people in kindergartens. We're going to need more, these five college locations aren't enough. We will need university courses, we will need the removal of admission barriers to work, especially as regards people with disabilities, and there is already a motion for a resolution. We will certainly need more diversity in the profession, more men, more people with disabilities, more people with intercultural skills and also with language skills. We will put an even stronger focus on inclusion, on multilingualism, we will need, as already mentioned, better working conditions and in the end also a higher reputation for the profession. That is, there are still many, many more steps to be taken. We start with this first, and I hope that we will take many of these steps together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42654	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42675	Madam President. Minister! Since the ÖVP has been expressed to call on colleagues Eypeltauer or NEOS to do so, that we do not work for the public service or down its services, especially with regard to teachers, it is said: First of all, that's not true. Only because we are in service law against improvements, of which people in the private sector can only dream, does not mean that we narrow the performance of teachers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Secondly, I would like to see as much commitment as the ÖVP has given to teachers as to elementary teachers. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Of course, I am always pleased when we talk about elementary education in plenary, because I think that this is always too short. There is a small view of light, but a lot of darkness in this system. As a NEOS question has shown, the Ministry of Education has no idea at all about the care keys in the kindergartens, no idea about the training of the leaders and auxiliary staff, there is nothing about the training of educators in the kindergartens and nothing about quality factors in elementary education. The BMBWF has no data on this. As the cat bites a little in the tail, because if there is no data, you can of course not formulate targets; and those who have no goals often do not realize that it rotates in the circle or simply does not move away from the spot. That is why it would be necessary not only to distribute the EUR 142 million for kindergartens to the countries, but also to develop quality criteria to have an overview of what this money is spent on and to develop quality standards. We have tabled a proposal that was much more comprehensive than what has now been done with the EIA and the Greens. We would have linked the Bafeps much more to elementary pedagogical research et cetera. Unfortunately, this has been rejected. Mr Hamann always says that this is the first step, there are more places to work. – Yes, that’s a light look, but if you continue in elementary education, we’re not where Sweden is today in 100 years. You have to take a walk and don't wait until the ÖVP finally swings in there.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42729	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I put the vote on these agenda items to the end of the debates on the submissions of the Committee on Education. [[17:23:37]] 53. Point Report by the Committee on Education on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42766	We will now reach 53. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Volker Reifenberger is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42793	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! High house! Our liberal education speaker Hermann Brückl and I have tabled a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Government to include intellectual defence as an important part of the curriculum in the reorientation of the field of political education in the school sector. The intellectual state defense is part of the so-called comprehensive state defense, which has been enshrined in our federal constitution since 1975. The comprehensive national defence consists of the military national defence, the national economic defence, the civil defence of the country, and the spiritual defence of the country. In detail, this is about providing a basic understanding of security, for possible threats in the civil-military sense, but also for democratic freedoms and for human and civil rights. Spiritual defence is intended to contribute to ensuring the basic democratic consensus and social peace and to the understanding of a concept of a comprehensive security policy in the national, European and also global context. In principle Unfortunately, the teaching principle of political education from 2015 is no longer the intellectual or the comprehensive national defense, which used to be different. A project assignment between the Ministry of Education, on the one hand, and the Ministry of Defence, on the other hand, under Federal Minister Mario Kunasek, was commissioned as a foundation for the revision of the field of political education. The result of this project was the joint training of teaching staff and teaching officers. The current exceptional situation of the Corona crisis shows how important it is that knowledge about potential risks in the field of schooling can suddenly become available. It is therefore an hour to move forward with this project and to amend the plans for political education accordingly. Whether for political reasons or thematic inconsistencies, which I believe is more important, our motion for a resolution in the Committee on Education did not agree with the other parties. That was the case in the teaching committee, but what do the other political groups' speakers say about it? Mr Hammer von der ÖVP! Mr Ofenauer! Mr Stögmüller from the Greens! What do you say? Why don't you sign up? Would you not like to come here and explain to us why you are against this request? Please don't send me my colleague Marchetti to speak. Only a second word, this is a poverty testimonie on such an important topic. There are enough declarations of intent on comprehensive national defence on the part of the ÖVP. In the case of public rallys, in Sunday's speeches, whether in the comrade's alliance or in fishing talks, ÖVP politicians at all levels are always talking about the importance of comprehensive national defence. Even Minister of Defense, Claudia Tanner, pointed out at her address to the last National Day that national defence must be taken into account in the area of schools, businesses and even in families in order to raise awareness of it. Federal Minister Fässmann! Please talk to your own party colleague about this subject. With the rejection of this request, ÖVP and Greens have adopted their own government programme in less than a year, as this represents a very concrete commitment to comprehensive national defence. You have long passed our federal constitution.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42844	Mr Nico Marchetti is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42869	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Although I am only the replacement programme in the eyes of Mr Reifenberger, I would nevertheless like to comment on this request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Spiritual national defense is a term that may not be common to everyone. This is, in principle, another phrase for public science in the wider sense, and it is already included as a principle of teaching within the framework of the field of political education. That means it would be redundant if we now wanted to agree to this proposal and implement something that has already been implemented. In that respect, I think, it is relatively clear, short and clear why we are voting in the same way as we are voting. The great headline behind that is, of course, political education. And I have already announced more often than not, as you have said, that we are, together, over-participatively It is a matter of consensus and a desire to strengthen political education. There has already been a first meeting of all the political groups in autumn, at which we discussed this. We have already set a timetable. Our aim, our wish, is that we, all parties, should jointly start an initiative on political education with the reopening of the old Parliament. That only makes sense if we do this together, as I have pointed out several times. We will see what you have said now, and Mr Brückl has also said in the Committee on Education, as an input to this great political education initiative, which we are happy to take with us. In this sense we continue to work on it and look forward to bringing something together together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42917	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will be put to the end of all these votes. I would now come to the moved votes. I ask the political groups whether we can start voting immediately. - Then I'll go like that. [[17:30:30]] Vote on agenda items 37 to 53
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e42947	We come to the votes. First on agenda item 37: Vote on the draft Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act, the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleges and Preparation Courses as well as other laws, including title and receipt in 570 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We come to the vote on the resolution on the ‘School Test NOVI – New upper level with enhanced individualisation’ attached to the 570 committee report. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is also accepted by a majority. [[125/E]] Vote on agenda item 38: Draft federal law which amends a Education Documentation Act 2020 and the compulsory school examination law 1985, the compulsory school examination law, the higher education law 2005 and other laws, including title and receipt in 479 of the supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We therefore come to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Agenda item 39: Draft federal law, with which a federal law on the financing of the digitization of school education is passed, together with the title and receipt in 480 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on Agenda item 40: Proposal from the Committee on Education to take note of its report 573 of the supplements relating to the resolution 1076/A(E). Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on ‘Inclusion of environmental and socially sustainable factors in the procurement of digital devices’ attached to the Committee’s report 573 of the Supplements. Who is speaking out for this? – This is unanimously accepted. [[126/E]] We come to the vote on Agenda item 41: the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 574 of the Supplements on'measures to reduce the negative impact of disadvantaged groups in the field of education that have arisen as a result of the Corona situation'. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. [[127/E]] Vote on agenda item 42: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 575 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 43: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 576 of the supplements. Who is speaking out for this? – In doing so, the majority have taken note of this report. We shall vote on agenda item 44: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 577 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. Agenda item 45: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 578 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This is the majority and thus accepted. Vote on agenda item 46: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 579 of the supplements. Please have a sign of approval. – This has been noted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 47: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 580 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 48: Request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 581 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 998/A(E). Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the follow-up to the Committee's report 581 of the Supplements on the continuation of the training campaign for educators in the field of digital learning. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. [[128/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 49: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 582 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 50: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 583 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This has been noted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 51: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 584 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 52: Request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 585 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 1010/A(E). Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the resolution on ‘College offensive in the field of elementary pedagogy’ annexed to the Committee's report 585 of the Supplements. Who's for this? – This is unanimously accepted. [[129/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 53: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 586 of the supplements. Who's for it? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. [[17:37:50]] 54. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 922/A by Mr Nico Marchetti, Mr Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues on a federal law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz (597 d.B.) 55. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on amendment 1100/A(E) by Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues on the reimbursement of study contributions for the summer semester 2020 (598 d.a.) 56. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 1099/A(E) by Mrs Katharina Kucharovich, colleagues on support for non-profit student homes (600 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43336	We come to Agenda items 54 to 56 on which the debates are being conducted under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Andrea Kuntzl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43365	Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is about the fact that students will be able to earn more for the study aid in the future. That is a long-standing demand from us; we support it. It's a Re-enactment of the family aid, which has already happened. On the one hand, yes, on the other hand, not again, because the 15 000 euros do not equal. Once that counts 13, 14. In this respect, and not at once. This will cause a little confusion. I would like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to inform the students in detail so that the wrong conditions are not met. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] It is a right measure, but it comes at an unfavourable time for students. And on the other hand, students who work more make life difficult. Why is it at an unfavorable time? Because we live in a situation where many people are unemployed or in short work and many students have also broken out the jobs. That means they can't earn more, but they need more support from us. There is, in fact, proper support for many of the population groups at this difficult time, but not for students. This would be very necessary, however, because, Mr Federal Minister, you are drawing a very rosy picture of the situation at universities, the situation of students who are also very difficult and demanding for students in the lockdown, in times of distance learning, and also costly, only if we keep in mind the technical equipment that is necessary for video conferences and online meetings. Therefore, in the coming summer semester – we wanted to do this already in the winter semester, unfortunately, this did not happen – we asked the students to pay at least the tuition fees and to compensate the universities for them. On the other hand, students who work more because they have to finance life next to their studies make life difficult. They now submit a law, according to which students who do not reach a minimum number of points in a given period of time – working more means studying more slowly, means taking longer in the study – are then simply thrown out of the study. That's what you've been upsetting, but the logic remains, and that doesn't correspond to the image of university that we imagine, because that means studying quickly, not looking to the left and right, not to be critical, not to sniff into another degree, but just to study quickly. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Torch into this logic You are increasingly involved – also with this law that you are now presenting. Therefore: Pull back this part of the law, take away from the students' pressure! The step we are rightly taking today can only be a first step. What is really necessary is to expand the study aid so that more students can get support and in the future also receive greater, more noticeable support.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43420	Next speaker: Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43445	Madam President. Estimated Minister! So I'm already a little irritated by the statement that it contradicts the logic of the SPÖ at the universities that you're going to study quickly and quickly. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Because it's true!]] So that's probably the most natural thing and the claim of every student. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, in your circles maybe! But that's not for everyone...!]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: If who works...!]] I therefore believe that this is a strange logic that you represent here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But now we come to the law, the Studienförderungsgesetz: It is really a good measure – and it was all unanimously in the Committee’s opinion – which cannot come early enough to increase the level of commitment in the field of study promotion, with study aid ranging from EUR 10 000 to EUR 15 000 per year. I think that this is very useful, because it also relieves a range of students who work and perhaps just need this support, in order to be able to fight life. That is, I think, an absolutely sensible measure, and I think it is good that we have decided unanimously in the Committee and will probably now also decide unanimously. However, I would like to come to science a little bit more generally, because it also appears again and again in the course of the Corona crisis. I was really shocked that the Secretary-General of the FPÖ came out here with a glass of Cola, tumbled into an antigen test Cola, so that it is then destroyed and falsely indicates positive, and that as an argument the tests do not bring anything. So how can you actually act against science? That's really crazy, so I'm still really shocked. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Abg. Lausch:... have you studied chemistry? Commander!]] [[Call to the Greens: "Procurator!" That's a call for order!]] I think it is very important, especially in the present time, that we also make aware of the importance of science. That is why I also think it is very good that we can now also talk about how we can better anchor this, how we can support people in their studies, how important it is to a society that people study that education is important that science is important. We get that in times like this day-to-day. I would also ask colleagues Schnedlitz to perhaps apologise for this action. [[Abg. Listen, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! Tell him yourself!]] This is really an insult to Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As regards tuition fees, I would also like to say: The SPÖ is the only party that believes that we should now refund tuition fees, and that also has a reason to do so. On the one hand, if you are not able to study at the moment, but if you are studying exams, it is also justified to pay this fee for the performance you receive. Test activity has even increased in recent months. So we're not talking about fewer tests being possible now, but the testing activity is even increasing. I am also a student myself, and I have also had experiences with Distancelearning. Yeah, it's laborious, but it works. The universities have really put good things on their feet. I think you can also recognize this achievement, and if you do not feel able to study now, then you can leave and you do not have to pay the study fee. I think that's fair, that's sensible, comprehensible, and that's how we're going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43586	Next speaker: Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43610	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! The last months have been a serious hardcore for students: Distancelearning, students you can't meet, teachers you know only online as the first semester, and jobs that have been lost, but that you need to be able to study in order to name just a few points. Social life is completely missing. That is why I find it very, very sad that the government parties, in the place above all the ÖVP, are dealing with so little of the reality of life of students, for otherwise, openly speaking, they would not now set up various laws that are totally contradictory, which are totally destructive, which students do not support in any way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to mention: We support the Studienförderungsgesetz, which is also on the agenda today. It is a long-standing demand to raise the limit of merit, but nevertheless the timing is quite unfavourable: How do you make 15 000 euros if you don't have a job at all? And it's really just a building block. We have long called for a comprehensive reform, and this building block should not be replaced by a comprehensive reform. [[Abg. Blimlinger: For decades, it's been time! For decades!]] Secondly, not yet on the agenda, Mrs Kuntzl has referred to it: They bring a UG novelle on the way, which really throws students to the feet. If you do not create ECTS points, you fly from the university. How much more can you increase the pressure on students? And how much do you know life realities? There are quite simply students who have to work. There are students who have to work and also have care obligations. How much can you ignore that? Chain contracts: They have become famous in the committee with this, but quite honestly, the chain contracts now provided for in the UG are totally contrary to the desire and will of the trade unionists. [[Abg. Blimlinger: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'm just excited when the discourse is really being conducted there. So the trade unionists reject your proposal. Rejection: Unfortunately, they also reject our requests, as well as the request to the student homes, which are about finally making money available and getting home support back on foot. They're talking about housing aids here. Quite honest: There's a student home law. I really think it is a threat – you are now also the prime minister, who says that it is – that you are against home promotion. We will communicate this very clearly. A second aspect in which I really ask you to turn on the screws again: It is about the fact that students currently have fewer students, because if the university is too close, there is no need for a residence. This, of course, also entails the loss of revenue. But since non-profit student homes are very central elements in order for students to be able to live at all affordable, I really would like to ask you to adjust these aid funds, which are available, to the conditions of student homes. I would like to make this appeal once again to you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43774	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43795	Madam President. Dear High House! Mr. Minister! Values Advisors! In addition to their studies, 65 percent of all students are employed – on average more than 20.5 hours says the statistics – and 40 percent of them are slightly employed. This shows how many Austrian students work next door. I would like to put my hat in front of them at this point. For the work next to the study there are different reasons, from my students I know, of course, to earn money, but also to gather practical experience. In fact, this is also very valuable for the students. It is noted that those who work are often even more eager to study or know what they are doing, and can bring in their practical experience. So this is a very valuable part of their life and enriching for the study. There are some 360 000 students, universities and FHs in Austria, and about 12 percent of them – 43 000 – receive study aid. To the study aid: In principle, it depends on income, obviously on the income of parents, and to a certain extent, of course, whether the student himself deserves something. We're talking about this commitment limit today. In the autumn, we raised the ceiling on family allowances from EUR 12 000 to EUR 15 000 per year. We want to restore this similarity, which has always existed between the limit on family support and study aid. I think that's an important concern. We also agreed on the Committee, and in that sense I would like to ask once again for unanimous agreement within the meaning of our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43829	There has apparently been a defamatory call from you, Mrs Blimlinger. I have not heard him – with the glass walls it is even more difficult to observe intermediate calls acoustically – although I try very hard to follow the discussions concentrated. I shall have the Stenographical Protocol come to me and I will explain to you the further procedure on the basis of the Protocol. Next, Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43853	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! We have already spoken on these agenda items here in plenary on several occasions, we do not have much time today, it is also late on Friday after a long week, but Mr Marchetti has at the end made me say something on this point in the short term. Yes, we also appreciate work students and similar things more, but if he makes a charge to our Secretary-General there, grated here as a hobby chemist, set up demands, and says that speed is the meaning and purpose of a study, then I must address you, Mr Marchetti, to say: You have been studying a Bachelor's degree at the University of Economics since 2009 and have not completed it until today – 11 years – and then you believe, because you have entered politics, you can take a stand here with the interests of students who have not had this opportunity or taken this opportunity to go to politics. [[Abg. Matznetter: Not the short either!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Maybe he wants to be chancellor!]] I think you have no idea how it really is about the students. Unfortunately, I have to say that. You would be credible if you completed your studies at least sometime, as would the Federal Chancellor. I have the impression that we are living at a time when, if you do not complete your studies, you will at least become a Member of Parliament or a Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To Mr Blimlinger: By the way, I believe that the University of Applied Arts and the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna belong together for very simple reasons, in order to save efficient administrative costs. We're working very hard on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43919	Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43940	Madam President. Minister! Of course, we welcome the commitment limit for reference of study aid to those for family support and we very much agree. After all, it is a question of making life unnecessarily difficult for students who work. This brings me to the novelle of the university law, which is under review. There are many passages: better studyability, more commitment to study – this is a long-term political theme for decades. What brings the introduction of the 24-ECTS rule with an exmatriculation and with the lock to ten years, I do not know exactly yet. If the goal is to get rid of so-called cartels, of course you can say that. If the goal is to achieve a better care key in the university, you can say that, of course. Or if the aim is to make it easier for universities to negotiate the performance agreements, you can say that. There are different goals that you can have, but if you really want to improve the situation of students and also want to implement this much quoted better studyability, then I would like to know what this brings and how it affects the actual care key. If you want to improve your studyability, I don't know why you're reducing the exam dates from three to two. We want students to be able to study quickly, and if you want to, you have to make sure that you do: that you can study quickly – that you get into courses, into seminars and not stand because you do not meet the requirement chain. We need more flexibility in our studies and not less! We also need a part-time study and it is not enough that we always talk about it. The learning agrets are, I think, a step in the right direction and will bring the students something. ECTS law is also positive. I really hope that after the review some thing or other will happen, which really will bring relief to students so that they can study quickly and well.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e43983	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44007	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Seven out of ten students work in addition to their studies, including many to finance their studies at all, and others to collect professional practice by the way – we have already heard that. Since it is up to us to relieve working people, in September we raised the limit of family support. So far, a student has been able to earn up to 10 000 euros a year without having to repay the family allowance. We have raised this limit to 15 000 euros, and this benefits countless students. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you for the many positive news and feedback received after this decision, some have then asked if this applies to the study aid, for example to the self-holder grant. This is what we are deciding here in Parliament today and we are also increasing the limit on the award of study aid. This benefits 3 000 students each year who receive study aid and have exceeded the 10 000 euros per year. This discharge does not apply only from next year, but from now on retroactively as from 1.1.2020. I am very pleased about this milestone in youth policy. We increase the commitment limit to 15 000 euros and thus relieve countless working students because they do not lose family support and study aid. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44046	Mr Fässmann has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44068	Madam President. High house! I think that the Studienförderungsgesetz is relatively quick to explain, and I think it is likely that there will be great approval. It is about increasing the amount of earnings in comparison to the family allowance and it is also about changing the billing: an ex-post bill and not an ex-ante outlook on how much one will earn. I believe that this will benefit students, but also university bureaucracy as a whole. Mrs Kucharovich, you said it was a totally destructive UG novelle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] The UG-Novelle contains 40 significant changes. One may think that this or that change may not be so favourable, but simply stand down and say: a totally destructive UG-Novelle!, and we once had a word change around a certain term, is not very differentiated as you mark it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The second thing I have to say: If you don't create ECTS points, you fly from the university! I have also told you in committee that this is not the case. It's about this one subject that you might be studying as a third degree and for which you don't have enough courses, but that doesn't mean you're flying from the university as a person. Mrs. Künsberg Sarre, you have been talking about liability being discussed for many years. That doesn't mean all of this is done. On the contrary, it is not done, and therefore the liability is also a very important point in this UG-Novelle, and it certainly means liability on both sides: Liability of students, liability of the institution university. You have rightly said that there are a few things that are very favorable. I'd point this out a lot more. I think it is very favourable for students to be privileged, for example, just before they are finished, so that there are learning agrarians, so that teachers also have to commit themselves to being there for their students. There are many points that ultimately follow that the marking, there is a totally destructive UG-Novelle here – that is not what you said, but Mrs Kucharovich – is certainly not true. [[towards Abg. Künsberg Sarre]] Perhaps I, Mrs Kuntzl, draw a too rusty picture of the UG and the universities, but you, Mrs Kuntzl, sometimes draw a very grey picture.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44131	Next item is Mrs Eva Blimlinger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44152	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! You need, I think, not to look into the Minutes, I apologize to Mrs Kucharovich for my choice of words, but it brings me a little bit to the palm, I have to say honestly, after explaining to you for the third time how the NPO fund works in student homes, and you have asked me to show you where the difficulty lies, but you have not sent me anything for four weeks and have always been saying that the non-profit student homes in the NPO Fund are disadvantaged. That's where I got a bite scratched out. Excuse me! Send me the info, then I can look at it! But it is simply not true, because of course there is a fixed-cost grant, regardless of how many students are in the student home. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] During your government participation, the rehabilitation contributions to student homes have been abolished, and, as has already been stressed on several occasions, the re-establishment and rehabilitation of the federal state are not a matter of the federal government. So I would like to know that once. I think it's nice that we're already starting to discuss the UG here. We are pleased with many comments. Maybe two more small points: The reduction to two basic dates, examination dates, at the beginning and end of the semester, is due in particular to the fact that three dates are not necessary for most courses of study. They usually have in mind courses of study, which are so-called mass studies, with much less mass studies than three or four years ago, given the capacity-oriented funding of study places. Look at it! In other words, each university can decide for each course of study how many exam dates it offers in the semester. It may also be ten if you choose to do so. On the one hand, one cannot speak of autonomy and on the other hand, one can constantly demand that the law regulate everything. You have to decide sometime. We have decided that this is in the university's autonomy. By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44201	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. I put the vote on these agenda items to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Scientific Committee. [[18:06:02]] 57. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on amendment 1036/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Tashner, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues on further development of higher education (599 d.a.) 58. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 1058/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues with regard to strengthening the Senate by strengthening the professorship (601 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44253	We now come to points 57 and 58 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44280	Madam President. We have also discussed the proposal now before us quite controversially in committee, and the intention to look at it, evaluate it and standardise it when it comes to courses at universities is, in principle, an comprehensible one. However, while we clearly defend ourselves, it is true that certain groups may be segregated or stamped by the creation of new titles. So that's really something we really want to look at. We will simply see what is happening because of this motion for a resolution, what is being done about it. As SPÖ, we clearly stand for one thing: that we continue to talk about studyability, about the social permeability of the regular study – of the regular study, I think, that is very important – about the fact that study is simply made possible with flexible life realities. In 2020, this is actually something extremely essential. We must continue to discuss this issue of studyability, and we must continue to discuss it within the framework of the UG-Novelle. We will do that anyway, we will discuss it on and on, and we will also discuss this extremely hot, because we believe that the studyability with this UG novelle will not be promoted, but the pressure on the students will be increased. Especially in this crisis situation, especially after this extremely strenuous year, it's just something we don't understand at all and what makes the reality of life completely broken by many, because you may have to stop studying because you do something else, because you just don't get together at the back and at the front and don't know what to do with teaching materials, what to do with You should buy food, how to pay the rent et cetera. You leave the study in the rain, I already emphasized that yesterday. To return to studyability: The realities of life are diverse. There are the students who start their studies after the Matura and work in various hours. There is the young businessman who may be working hard on her start-up and by the way does the study to just get even more expertise. There is the mother who has care obligations and is going to study during the karenz. There is the worker who has completed a degree course and now enrolled at the FH for a Bachelor's degree and struggles there. And that's good, so I want to see the students in 2020. This should become much more diverse – we will also look at it – and that is why it takes the best possible framework conditions to study, when studying in regular studies. Only one more statistics that the Momentum Institute published this week: 22 percent of workers' children start a Bachelor's degree, 7 percent begin a Master's degree, and less than 1 percent begin a doctoral degree. – I think this is a clear task. Studying is simply not an elite program. We will definitely keep our fingers in this wound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44326	Mrs Maria Theresia Niss is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44347	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Today, the university is no longer just a place where students come after the Matura and where they study shorter or longer. Mr Graf, in this context: Your comment in the direction of Mr Marchetti is quite honest with any comment, but I have to say quite honestly that this is naturally included in a series of experiments, comments or really last-class speeches on the FPÖ's side. [[Abg. Kassinger: Why?]] [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] As has been said today at universities, they are no longer just a basic degree, but they have also become a place of lifelong learning, not only in the direction of purely scientific further education, but of course they are also about further education, which is necessary especially for the later profession and which also includes the profession which has been exercised before. This is important, ladies and gentlemen, because people want and need to continue their education. This is cost-intensive, and this need for further training will continue to grow, considering, for example, that 90 percent of Austrian companies are still active in education – in the production sector the share is even higher – and this percentage has also been reduced by the Corona crisis. Of course, the need for further training will continue to rise, because technological change requires it very easily. But it is also clear that these days the universities do not necessarily find the optimal conditions. There is a very heterogeneous training landscape, there are over 900 different training courses at 62 universities. We have different conditions for access. One needs a matura, the other doesn't need a matura, so it's a bit difficult to run through it. The third problem we have is that, of course, this diversity of training also involves a variety of titles. In this context, I believe it is important to bring a little order and structure into the whole concept, as you might say. Therefore, it will be necessary to harmonise legal framework conditions so that it becomes clear in the future what the conditions for access to such a high-school continuing education are. We will state in the UG-Novelle that up to 50 percent of ECTS points can be counted. There will, of course, be a need for professional experience. This is very important so that the permeability between the profession and higher education is really increased. This is not only important for the students, ladies and gentlemen, but it is also important for employers, because they know in the future what is really inside in the individual training courses, what is in the individual titles, if I may say so. What titles are we talking about? – In the future, there will be a Bachelor Professional and a Master Professional for further education courses. I think it is also good and important that we use these titles, which also follow the Bologna Systematics, exactly for higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are taking an important step towards a clear and practical continuing education. This is very important – I mentioned it earlier – because it will increase this permeability between higher education and higher education, and thus we will allow people to continue to qualify and, above all, that is essential, we will also take a step towards reducing the shortage of skilled workers. That's something I want for the location, of course, in the sense of the location. I wish you all a happy Christmas, stay healthy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44396	Mr Martin Graf, you will speak next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44417	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! If this is wrong, I apologize for it, of course, but I wanted to present a plastic example of how difficult it is to complete a study next to the profession, and sometimes you need longer. [[towards ÖVP]] Mr Marchetti is an example of this, he told me earlier that he will complete it in June, after twelve years, that is nine years after the minimum period of study. It's hard to be a work student. You should take note of this, you have to say something about it. When he completes his studies, he may invite me to the sponsorship, then I will go there and celebrate with him because he has completed his studies, and then I am looking forward to it. On the subject, on the two points that are summarized here: Yes, it is obviously so that you need to sharpen something every 15 to 20 years. In this case, the further development of higher education training is a real initiative, especially the diversity of titles, in which a market has emerged over the last 30 years, which is increasingly also partially privatized, on which there is a variety of titles that needs to be adapted. We had this at that time about 18 years ago with the Master of Advanced Studies to give an example. This has had such an increase that then the Volkshochschule Ottakring has offered a one-year study, which has completed with the Master of Advanced Studies. That was not an internationally recognized title, only nationally, but all have completed with a master. The introduction of minimum standards from time to time – developments have now gone into the country again – if you observe the market and develop something, is basically positive. Further training makes sense, makes sense, so we will also be happy to support this initiative. We hope that this will be concluded next year or in the next 18 months. The second matter that is being discussed here concerns an application we have tabled, namely the strengthening of the Senate by strengthening the professorship. This does not necessarily fit in, but the debate in the next few points is nevertheless a general one. We were concerned that we should strengthen the Senate in the obviously changing university organisation landscape, which is also something in favour of the rectorate, I say now that I am not technically, disarmed or otherwise positioned. We believe that in bringing together competence and responsibility where it makes sense in academic matters, the Senate should be strengthened in such a way that the professorship there is more weight and not just equal with other representatives in the Senate. We have started this initiative, which will accompany us. The greens are obviously heading in the other direction. Clearly, combining competence and responsibility should not be what you are striving to save as well as on the side of the green administrative costs. That is why I would like to stress once again that it is absolutely necessary not only to think about it, but to put together in Vienna the Academy of Fine Arts and the University of Applied Arts in order to save administrative costs and ultimately make the money saved to the students. Do not be against this good initiative, but try to get the best out of it with us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44465	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44487	However, this is not the subject of the debate, but because Parliamentary Count has already mentioned this twice: I'd like to think we could save a lot of money if we called the FPÖ universities and put decent people there. That would be much better, but it's not that easy. They won't believe it, but mergers first cost money and don't save money, and the Academy and the Applied will certainly never be put together as far as I see it and as far as I can do anything about it. But now for further training: This is a special concern for us, and above all for two reasons: on the one hand for a really increased protection of consumers and on the other hand as a good and ideal possibility of permeability of studies and their recognition. One point in the UG will be that in the case of school and non-school qualifications, professional and non-vocational qualifications up to 60 ECTS points could be recognised. Of course, with the introduction of a Bachelor's Professional and a Master's Professional, this can promote exactly this permeability, which can be within this Master's or further training bachelor. It must, as it were, be clear to consumers and consumers what they get for their title, for what they do. It will be a standardized ECTS number and a uniformization of the titles. We live in a country where everyone likes to have titles. There's one. To create an overview, this should happen. I'd really be very happy if we could. Perhaps another point concerning the 24 ECTS points: You know, I'd rather if it were nothing. We must agree, we have different starting positions, but quite honestly: By making these 24 points in two years, you can study to the same extent for 15 years. So speaking of a restriction, saying that it is impossible to try out – sorry, it is somehow not quite the way! As I said, I would rather have zero, is not mine, but we must find a compromise. That's one I think he's feasible. By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44529	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? – That's not the case. I put the votes on these agenda items to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Scientific Committee. [[18:22:15]] 59. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 1096/A(E) by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on no budget for Islamic fundamentalism at universities (602 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44565	That's what we're getting to the 59th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Axel Kassinger's speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44593	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, this item on the agenda concerns a very serious issue from our point of view, namely people who are close to Islamic fundamentalism in our society in Austria, these are spreading, or even Islamic groups, in particular – unfortunately already clearly – in schools and at our universities. Before I say anything on this point, however, I would like to repeat very briefly to Mr Blimlinger. Mrs. Col., you are here and you are saying, "We could save a lot of money if we could get the FPÖ councils and put them there with a lot of people". – I myself was involved in the government negotiations, I was also involved in the process of occupying these universities and I know very many of them. I owe it to our universities that I'm here now and I'm telling you: That's an unheard-of insult that you're just saying so fluffy. I'm not asking you to apologize either. It is simply an unheard-of insult and, if you think it to the end, a flat-rate insult due to belonging to a group, namely the group of FPÖler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] This is the definition of discrimination. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: This will soon be punishable!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: In the worst Trafiantenslang!]] Now on a serious topic: We had the sad case of the Islamist terrorist attack on the 2nd. ==References== Following this, of course, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism – I express this consciously and do not say BAT – under the leadership of the public prosecutor Graz, there have been large-scale razzia with 930 police officers and 60 house searches – with the aim of establishing close relations in particular to the Muslim Brotherhood, to Hamas et cetera, i.e. to organizations that are definitely, undisputed totalitarian, not only violent, but also violent, hostile to women who have a huge problem with the separation of state and religion and who place the Sharia on laws and constitutional laws. And there has been very worrying, unheard of in so far as there are significant networkings. I now come specifically to the case of the University of Graz, where the emeritus professor Wolfgang Benedek, who is also the chairman of the Human Rights Advisory Council of the City of Graz, organises lecture series et cetera, where one now believes that at least half of these speakers are members or from the environment of the Muslim Brotherhood. This is absolutely unacceptable; I think we must be very, very vigilant. The universities must also be vigilant here. It can't be done. By the way, Islam teachers were also suspended in Styrian schools for the same reasons. I am not even quoting what is supposed to have been presented to quotations by these Islam teachers regarding Christianity et cetera. That is why our request is being made. This request is, in fact, a target. The application is – you know the request – that the Ministry should ensure that no budgetary resources are made available for such courses. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] But it's a target. We must be vigilant – this is our real concern – especially at the universities as places of freedom of teaching where dogmas should have no place where totalitarian and violent ideologies should have no place. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, within the framework of your supervisory right, which, from my point of view, is a duty to act in this direction, both budgetaryly and in terms of content. That is the content of this request – and once again my request to you to stand in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44658	The next item is Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44679	Madam President. High house! Mr Kassinger, I can understand your argument very well. I think we both agree in this respect that these things are extremely dangerous and, of course, completely rejected by us. There are only two footnotes I put on. The one is: They are trying to do so as well as some kind of request for budgeting, i.e. the ban on budgeting. I don't know if They do not go beyond the goal, so don't take the target in the right direction. Budgeting is not the question as such. In the beginning, perhaps, when you make the budget available, you do not even know what will be said in this lecture. Then you can only find out afterwards, that was the wrong budget. - That's the one point. The other point is: The budgets can flow from different places. I do not assume that such budgeting on the part of the Ministry is only taken into consideration in the least. In essence, it's about the matter itself. That's what I see. In schools, of course, this is a clear matter, but at universities, we have the problem that we are facing the freedom of teaching. This is, of course, so common that we really have to allow free thinking to be strong enough here. You know, the Gaulle once said: “On n’arrête pas Voltaire.” – So you don’t catch a voltaire. At the time, Sartre was meant, who made anti-state statements in the 1960s. And you guessed de Gaulle to arrest him. ‘On an arrête pass Voltaire’. That means you have to be able to stand up to it. We even have to be able to stand by it in the sense that we can, of course, resist it intellectually. That's the sense of the whole discourse that we're strong enough for that. Thanks to God, we are not snowflakes universities, where you have to be careful that you are not somehow sensitive to any statements, but really have to be thought on both sides without barriers. Then it will be shown that dogmatic and fundamentalist statements have no way of taking place, simply dying in the intellectual discourse. That would be the goal. There is actually only one limit in the freedom of teaching, and that is given in § 283 StGB, and in that, I think, we should leave it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44721	Next word reported: Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44743	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Rudi Tashner, we agree, of course the freedom of teaching is very important. I also enjoyed it, in that case even in the committee, which is often not possible, that we have had a very differentiated debate, and it is essential. We have said that we will support this request, and I feel confirmed by a guest comment in today’s “standard” in which psychologist Ahmad Mansour, an Arab Israeli, writes: “It’s time to wake up in reality.” Europe must communicate its values clearly and clearly. He also writes about the Enlightenment and I think we need to talk about it. Any form of fundamentalism is dangerous, and if religion is fundamentalist, then it is particularly dangerous. The fact is: Since people walk with consciousness over the earth, they have religious feelings, believe in nature and believe in deities. And then came a phase in which religion took power and suppressed people. Then came the Enlightenment. The Enlightenment is not only the way out of the self-indebted unmistakableness, the Enlightenment is also the separation of church and state. Enlightenment also means acting against any form of fundamentalism and also going against any form that the Church may choose what is taking place in the state – it may negotiate, may wish for something, but it may not decide. There we are a great deal further than many Islamic societies. In the committee I was asked to bring a book, which I naturally liked to do. I would strongly recommend this: Mouhanad Khorchide, one Austrian religion sociologist, and Hamed Abdel-Samad discuss the question of whether Islam is still to be saved; interestingly in 95 theses. - We know why. Short answer: One says yes, the other says no. An important sentence is: “As you know, I personally feel that Islam cannot be reformed. However, I very much believe in the reformability of Muslim thinking,” says Hamed Abdel-Samad. We have to stop there, but we also have to sit here in the schools. We must start in public debates and defend our values and European values, which have also been discussed here. An important point is also – that is just what the religion sociologist says: The problem with many Muslims is that they take the Qur'an literally. I am really opposed to every hateful, evil expression against the Koran – I would like to tell colleagues from the FPÖ – but he says quite correctly: You can't take him literally. – It is also an achievement of Christian churches that they do not take literally what the Bible says. A second point: I am also opposed to any form of Christian fundamentalism, and I am also in favour of our separating church and state here in Parliament. I was shocked at the event that took place here. I sit in the National Council next to Bedrana Ribo of the Green Group. She had to flee from Travnik in Bosnia at the age of eleven. Her best friends were a Croatian Catholic and an orthodox girl, she herself is Muslim. She had to flee because this hatred was also generated by religion and because society was split. I'm sitting next to her, we're talking, and I can imagine that we're also going to a prayer house, to a God's house – to pray, to sing is not recommended at the moment – that everyone has his idea that this brings us together. The event that took place here divided the people. I really urge that we stop doing so. There is enough else in society, which is split anyway, and if I only suspect that there is intention behind it, I have to use much more radical words. One last word, because it's up to date, to the headwear ban: Of course also since the separation of church and state, of course there must also be the possibility of religious practice, but it leads me back to the beginning. This is the subject we need to talk to people, including Muslims. Leave the kids alone! Don't tell the children what they have to do! But this also applies to Christian fundamentalists. Given what some people here are saying, how dangerous it is for a man to look at a woman, I do not see much difference from what Muslim fundamentalists say. That's why my appeal is really: Let's try, everyone for himself, private, to live religiously as he pleases. Where it leads to common relations, let us do so, but let us stop splitting society with religion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44804	Mrs Andrea Kuntzl will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44825	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brandstätter, I can sign almost every sentence you said, but I do not understand that you support this concrete request. Of course, we are – as you do – for doing so against any kind of fundamentalism, Hatred and hatred occur in whatever form and wherever it occurs. This is where we are meeting, but one of my problems is starting with this specific request, namely the reason for this request. It is not against any form of fundamentalism, but it is addressed specifically to a concrete form of fundamentalism. There are also concretely people who may be accused of this. By the way, FPÖ media are quoted as sources. There is no evidence, no serious, neutral sources that prove what is being blamed. If one looks at the reasoning, then it does not meet the criterion you have just set up, namely to oppose fundamentalism, but it is quite clear that it is an attempt to incite resentment, not against Islamism, but in truth against Islam. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, this must be clearly separated in the debate, for Islamism is a form of extremism and Islam is a religion that has its right in our society. This request is deliberately mixed and resentments are startled, and therefore, although we naturally stress that we are opposed to any kind of fundamentalism, we cannot support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44871	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44892	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I really wondered that NEOS supported this request. This in obvious recognition, that it is not about the question, fundamentalism or not, but about the question of anti-Islamic positions and these also towards universities or science and research. When Rudi Tashner says: Well, then you have a problem with the freedom of teaching!, I don't think you have a problem with the freedom of teaching, which is just there. There are some colleagues in the FPÖ who wear a face mask that stands on it in 1848. – Marginal remark: It is not your revolution that you can not take, but it has led to the fact that there was a basic state law in 1867, and in this basic state law the freedom of science and teaching has been normed, precisely because it did not exist. I already have a bit of a problem with this when everyone here is now demarcating themselves from fundamentalism. I would like to know once how we define it, and above all: Who defines when what is fundamentalistic? I'm just saying, Separation between state and church – especially at universities. We know: They don't exist. What is so to speak must also apply to the others. Either we separate them for all churches and religious societies – but then there must be no theological faculties, because this is a mixture of state and church that, as we know, is actually against any autonomy of universities – or for none. So this is not understandable to me. In conclusion, perhaps: Farid Hafez can of course continue to teach at the University of Salzburg. The university has examined this. It is not at all the point that his teaching and science freedom is restricted. I do not know what the supervisory authority is doing, but the university has, of course, decided in its bodies that there is no problem. By the way, I am in favour of the change of name to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44934	I now have the Stenographical Protocol which I have requested at the request of the honourable Members, as far as Mrs Blimlinger's call is concerned. It is clear from the Protocol that this was, of course, personally insulting. However, Mrs Kucharovich has told me that she accepts Mrs Blimlinger's apologies and that there will be no further regulatory measures for me. There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. As agreed, I will put the vote at the end of the Scientific Committee's agenda. [[18:41:36]] 60. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment No 654/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues on the solution of the chain contract problem at the Austrian universities (§ 109 Universitätsgesetz 2002) (603 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44971	That is what we have reached the agenda item 60. There was no oral reporting. Mr Martin Graf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e44998	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to comment briefly on the immense, discriminatory accusation – only on a world view. Mrs Blimlinger here, in the protection of her immunity, has let go of her hatred and her whole het, and has shown her true face, as she may want to understand today in 1848. They make themselves there and discredit people as to their belief in the world! – Yes, it is true: When we were in the government, we also proposed university councils and the Federal Government sent them. You doubt their qualifications, although in part they are top scientists with internationally recognized reputations, who have been active at home and abroad and are still in part. I'm sorry I mentioned my colleague Marchetti here, too. I mean, let's look at your CV. They were rectors of a university in Vienna. How did you get that? [[Abg. Stögmüller: By performance!]] – First of all, need She's 11 years for a study that takes five years: Philology, history and – what was it? – Social science. You used 11 years to do this, were also a work student and, according to your CV, enjoyed your commercial training in an Austrian trafic. [[Abg. Blimlinger: Yes!]] And maybe you were even a good rector, we never questioned your qualification. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But if you see your CV, you should actually say: You come out here and qualify top scientists, who are university councils, really don't mind, and do you have such a CV? – Quite honestly, you have to come in front of your own door, you have to say that already! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe – You now have new laws – publish the next year in the package, as you have said here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] [[Abg. Blimlinger:... Your legacy...!]] Then you are the first victim of your own legal provisions that you have created. But we can't do that because we were against the law you passed today and yesterday. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] On the topic of chain agreements Mr. Federal Minister, you promised us this spring and promised that this problem will be solved by the end of this year. [[towards Federal Minister Fässmann]] - It didn't go out. We have therefore put this request on the agenda once again, because we believe that this is a very urgent problem. Now you have once proposed a solution in the course of the novelle sent in review. This is already being torn more or less in the air by all possible sides. You'll see how this comes; but it's very, very late, and it's gonna be fun again. I practice criticism because you want to allow an opportunityhiring – that's what it means. What the word is meant to mean in Austria or in the legal language is actually not known: An opportunity of attitude, I would say. This is like smoking – now I come back on the trafic –: The occasional smoker, who used to smoke occasionally, smokes today on every occasion because of the many bans. That's how it will be! I think the universities, the rectors will be in this implementation, in such a way that one opens up such a broad loophole without calling procedures – and that is the decisive thing: that one has the opportunity to make university careers in professorship through this opportunityunityhiring, whatever that means; on every occasion one will do so -, probably be subjected to enormous pressure and pressure. In the past, there was the Minorite Square Slaughter: If you needed something or if you wanted some employment, you turned there. At Minorite Square is the seat of the Ministry of Science, and there were legions working there to express their concerns about the way of intervention. This is also our fear, with so sluggish terms that do not allow a legal substrate: that there will be a rectorate sluggish. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Then we have created exactly the opposite of what we really want to achieve, namely to offer the future young Austrian scientists opportunities and to ensure that, if they cannot take them, because they do not have the scientific qualifications to do so, they have to leave this area. We believe that the loophole is opened up very wide, and therefore we are against it, because eight years, as you suggest now, this has been fixed for a long time, plus then this opportunityhiring – an opportunity to think even without the conditions – we do not think it is good. We'll see: This will create a sog, where devils will be intervened out and where rectors and rectors will then permanently conclude with the workforce representatives and with other compromises in order to simply take themselves out of the shooting field. I think that's a bad solution, and you shouldn't do it in this form. However, we will look at the review and we will continue to articulate our voting behaviour. Finally, I believe that it is necessary that we finally put together the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna and the University of Applied Arts Vienna and also initiate the process in this respect, because the combination of these two mini-universities at the Vienna site, in the neighborhood to each other, has enormous savings potential in the administrative field. We should not abandon this potential for savings. From colleague Blimlinger always comes the argument that you need several art universities. – Yes, then we’ll have to open a university in Innsbruck – they’ve wanted it for a long time, and how! – but I think you can also pour the child out with the bath. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] If you realize something, you should also look at these things, and not from the outset, just because this is perhaps the way of the clientele's own clientele, close up in this regard and empirically deal with an academic, scientific approach, whether you should not put these two universities together better. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Go!]] At least, if they were on one side of the street, you would have to put together two trophies, even the monopoly society. Maybe you understand this hint.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45142	Mr Josef Smolle has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45163	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention briefly to what Mr Graf said, particularly as regards intervention. I have been a rector of a university in Austria for eight years; there can be no talk of this interveningunami, which he has practically spoken of. I have experienced the university as a truly autonomous institution – autonomously, in particular, in relation to politics – and it has simply brought a lot to the UG 2002. This did not bring everything one wanted, namely a point that it did not bring, is § 109, and we are talking about it. It is well meant to protect young scientists from being diverted from a critical, precarious employment relationship to the next, partly due to temporary third-party agencies. There is now an UG-Novelle – at the moment the open deadline for the review is running; there will be opinions. It has been very much improved with the stakeholders, this § 109 has improved considerably, and a significant improvement is that a interruption of the service relationship does not lead to a re-start of the eight-year count for which a temporary period is permitted, but that all times acquired after the study as a staff member are counted together. It is correctly implemented and understood that at the latest in the mid-30s every young scientist can then make a clear career decision. This request by my colleague, Graf, may you take care of § 109, is a legitimate request. But he survived, because it is now a good proposal contained in the UG-Novelle. There will be opinions, perhaps even final discussions, but under the rule it will be appropriate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45203	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45227	Madam President. High house! If we are able to remove misunderstandings from the world in a short time, Mr Graf, I would like to do so. Firstly, if the current assessment of § 109 is disturbed by all sides, it may not be as bad as a compromise paragraph. The second point is that opportunityhiring has nothing to do with § 109. Opportunityhiring means that rectors can perform vocations quickly if certain opportunities arise. These opportunities may arise when first-class scientists are on the market. Their concern that this could be a loophole is not unwarranted, for which reason this is also quantitatively limited: This can be a maximum of 5 percent of all new appointments a year. That is, I think, a reasonable size to prevent exactly what you have outlined, namely, the rectorate of queues of people who want to have a vocation. That's just for the purpose of reconnaissance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45264	Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45286	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The work of Austrian universities in scientific research and teaching, in the development and teaching of the arts only succeeds if we create framework conditions that provide the employees, the employees of the universities of that environment that they really can do their work really well. This applies to the professors as well as to the secondary construction, to the students, to the non-academic staff – especially to those who study and work at the university. Whoever looks at this only from the monetary point of view, he gets too short anyway, he goes by it. Of course, it takes money, of course, it needs a budget equipment for research and teaching, of course it needs good care and, of course, it needs a great research infrastructure so that university can succeed, but what it needs above all, are brilliant minds. They are people who are motivated by passion for their research and by working on their research, and who jointly do research and teaching. It is the people who make a university work, it is the people who make up and shape the performance of a university. In this context, young scientists must be especially dear to us! There we have to look very carefully, because they are the ones that carry research very much in width, in the Praedoc phase, in the doctoral field, in the postdoctoral phase, as young scientists, as scientific thinkers, if you like. It is all the more important that we look at how their working conditions are made at the university and that these working conditions and these framework conditions are very clear and very precise and are also planned for them. It's quite clear: Not all young scientists can make university tenure track careers. That's clear, but you also have to communicate clearly, when really is the end. To § 109, which has already been mentioned: This was an art grip of an attempt to give the universities the widest possible flexibility to their To design university staff and also the change in staff – it always needs new ideas, new creativity – and on the other hand to create an environment for young scientists, which is also adequate and good for them. However, as we have already noted, this has not proved to be true, so I am already very excited about the opinions which are coming from the draft. What I really would like to do, Mr Federal Minister, is to have a debate with those concerned, with trade unionists and trade unionists, on the opinions, on how crucial this new regulation is – and that, before we discuss it in the committee, then everything has to go very quickly again and then there is no time to hold proper hearing here and to get opinions. I would therefore like to make this point to all of us in the heart of the Committee a common discourse. May we succeed in this exercise! – I really wish that for everyone involved.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45334	Next come Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45355	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I very much hope that the exercise will succeed because we know that we have been working hard on all levels over the last 20 years, and what is good for the medical union is perhaps bad for social science or the WU. It's a grett, I'm saying it quite openly. Of course, it is necessary to talk with the so-called stakeholders, especially the union, only the teachers' union, the university teachers' union and other sub-union unions do not agree on what they want, and that makes it quite difficult. So we are facing real challenges in the area. My list of comments, which we may still have to discuss, has been very long, and I hope that we can really get on with this novelle at least a little bit and also come a bit towards a perspective with more tenure track positions, where we also have a situation from the beginning that there are places that have a clearer definition profile. Now, at the end, I have to say something: Mr Graf, I know you can't bear to this day that I have become a rector. As soon as I was, you had to make a parliamentary request to the Minister – in ignorance that the universities themselves decided – as the Minister could allow it, that one – you did not, of course, express it in the request – left tick like I can become a rector of an Austrian university. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Yes, it is unimaginable, I was eight years in my first election, I have been re-elected unanimously by both the Unit and the Senate. You won't believe it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] I am glad that there are no longer such scientific managers as you, Mr Graf, because we are still suffering today from the effects of your activity in Seibersdorf and the debts made there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Listen, hear! Listen, listen!]] So I would be quite calm on your side as far as this is concerned. So to speak, you're just overshadowed by many judicial things. So be quiet! I'm proud that I worked in a trafic. It was my father's trafic who died, my brother and I did it together. And it's no shame to become a rector later on as a so-called tobacco wearer. In this sense and especially in this sense, I believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45407	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall refer the vote to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Scientific Committee. [[19:01:41]] Vote on agenda items 54 to 60
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45434	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Scientific Committee, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we go into the vote, again the question to the clubs: Is there a break? - I don't think so. Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 54: Draft federal law amending the 1992 Studienförderungsgesetz, including title and receipt in 597 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. – That is unanimous. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 55: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 598 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 56: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 600 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We come to the vote on item 57 on the agenda: the resolution relating to the Committee's report 599 of the Supplements on the development of continuing education and training. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. [[130/E]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 58: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 601 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 59: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 602 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 60: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 603 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. [[19:03:48]] 61. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (475, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Mineral Raw Materials Act (MinroG-Novelle Conflict Minerals) (590 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45572	We're now reaching 61. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Petra Bayr has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45599	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Illegal trade in land treasures finances criminal gangs and warlords that buy weapons that finance wars, and people living close to these raw materials mines are threatened, terrorized, enslaved and sometimes murdered. Children are also threatened, terrorized, enslaved and sometimes murdered. Conflict minerals include gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten; these minerals are defined and regulated in an EU regulation of 2017 as conflict minerals. This Regulation, which will enter into force at 1.1 of the coming year, will apply to importers from a certain point of view to review their supply chains so that they do not have to stand as warriors. The Austrian implementation of the introduction as from 1.1.2021 will be implemented in the Mineral Raw Materials Act, and I would like to submit the following motion for a resolution in order to give this law a little more teeth: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased that we can bring this proposal together with the NEOS. I believe that it would be important to really help break through this law with teeth, because the people who live in the areas around us and who are very affected would have deserved it. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[19:09]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45831	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. Franz Leonhard Eßl is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45859	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bayr correctly stated that there is an EU regulation on certain minerals to be implemented nationally, which is the EU Regulation 821/2017/EU, the so-called Conflict Mineral Regulation. Therefore, there is a government proposal on a federal law that amends the Mineral Raw Materials Act, which is to be adopted today. What is the content of this bill? . Accompanying provisions on the regulation laying down obligations for the fulfilment of the obligations of care in the supply chain for Union importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold from conflict and high risk areas will be included in the law. The Conflict Mineral Regulation aims to prevent the financing of armed groups by means of profits from raw material mining and commodity trading by controlling trade in minerals from conflict areas accordingly. The model for this Union legislation was OECD guidelines that provide guidance on how to prevent companies from contributing to serious human rights violations or to the financing of conflicts by fulfilling the due diligence obligations. The Conflict Mineral Regulation requires Union importers whose annual import of the said minerals or metals reaches certain quantities thresholds, identify risks in the area of their supply chains and take appropriate measures to minimise them. The conflict mineral regulation, which was adopted on 8 June, was adopted on 8 June. On 1 June 2017, the Union importers entered into force and are to be applied immediately so as to ensure that the above obligations for the Union importers are met by 1 January 2017. In January 2021, implementation must be implemented, and the competent authority should be established as a Montan Authority under the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. It is responsible for carrying out appropriate subsequent checks to ensure that the Union importers of minerals or metals comply with the obligations of the Conflict Minerals Regulation. Any subsequent checks in the field of conflict minerals shall be carried out. It is a risk-based control and subsequent controls are carried out by the Authority on its own initiative and, even if third parties express reasonable concerns about compliance with this Regulation, they shall be monitored accordingly. By implementing this regulation, with this amendment of the Federal Law, we help to reduce or avoid human rights violations. That is why, I believe, consent to this bill is important. I do not see what Mrs Bayr has said, namely that there is too little sharpness in it, but it is the intentions pursued by the opposition with her amendment request that are actually covered by this law which we decide today.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45904	Mrs Astrid Rössler is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45928	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! This is an important adaptation to an EU regulation, the introduction of relevant provisions into the Austrian Mineral Raw Materials Act, and, as already mentioned, it is a very serious issue, namely to prevent the import of minerals that contribute to the financing of wars, human rights violations, child labour and forced relocations. There are different approaches to implementation. Austria has decided that the Regulation is directly applicable. That is to say, the EU's Regulation with articles on the various topics is already in force, and It is now only about the implementation by a public authority and also about subsequent control. It is a matter of particular due diligence, the management system, the risk obligations, the challenge to assess risks, to take action and to develop indicators. This is an audit report, the obligation to publish a report audited by independent third parties, and is primarily a matter of disclosure. It needs transparency! The transparency and control of this publicly available report are among the main elements of this subsequent control. It was therefore particularly important to us that the authority, the BMLRT, should publish the companies with their internet addresses on the website. As can be read in the explanatory notes to this bill, there are also two concrete improvements to the draft version and also to the participation phase. The suggestions and opinions from the review procedure have been carefully examined and implemented. It is a question of the authority publishing these company names in a very concrete manner and of the fact that companies are also supplied on the basis of concrete indications from third parties to follow-up controls, and of course, in the first two years until implementation, complete control is carried out as far as possible. To that extent, as far as I am soon taking away from the proposal before me, most of the elements have been included in this amendment. The implementation of Aarhus is scheduled for next year and the rules relating to justified third party concerns are already included in the submission. In total, therefore, it is a very careful and very successful implementation from my point of view, which has also been carried out in very good cooperation with the relevant department. We are pioneers in Europe: Austria is the first and only country to actually publish the companies that exceed the thresholds. This is a very important signal that transparency and control can be successful in dealing with these human rights violations.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e45977	Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger has now spoken on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46001	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This amendment of the Mineral Raw Materials Act incorporates the accompanying provisions to the EU conflict mineral regulation into the MinroG. It has already been performed: They primarily serve to determine the care light in the supply chain for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and especially gold from conflict and high-risk areas. In particular, the Conflict Mineral Regulation aims to prevent the financing of armed groups through profits from the reduction and trading of raw materials by controlling trade in minerals from conflict areas. The model for this Union legislation was OECD guidelines providing guidance to companies on how to prevent them from contributing to serious human rights violations or to the financing of conflicts by complying with the due diligence requirement. The Conflict Mineral Regulation requires importers whose annual import of the said minerals or metals reaches certain quantities thresholds, identify risks in the area of their supply chains and also take appropriate measures to minimise them. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The obligations of the Union importers and the competent authority of the Member States to carry out the verification of compliance with those obligations shall be applied from 1 January 2015. January 2021. The authority responsible for the control is to be established as a Montan Authority under the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. It is responsible for carrying out appropriate subsequent checks to ensure that the importer of minerals or metals has also complied with the obligations of the Conflict Mineral Regulation. I would be very pleased to have your approval, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46049	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ragger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46071	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! We will vote in favour of the request, but would like to highlight this topic not only top-down, but also bottom-up, namely: On the one hand, it is absolutely necessary, and we are really leading as the first country, which also has a secondary test chain in this area, because it is essential to respect human rights. Once you see that child labour leads to training armed troops in Africa and being financed by different raw materials, it is only right and right to have implemented this regulation. A regulation is directly applicable, we know the relevant European rules. This scheme finds its outcome and precipitation in the MinroG. In any event, it is also necessary to discuss what Mrs Minister said, namely that these are OECD guidelines; and that is ultimately: In order to avoid distorting competition, it will also be necessary to negotiate this at a higher level, in WTO negotiations or at international level. That is why we want to extend this area with a motion for a resolution, because we can only rely so far on the statement of the then Minister Mitterlehner that we do not interact with the Austrian industry with this regulation. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will give the consent. I hope that the motion for a resolution will be the majority by means of other groups in the House and thank you for your attention. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[19:21]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46212	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Do the clubs want a break? – That is not recognizable. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 475 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: (in the direction of FPÖ) You said you were right!]] [[Abg. Anger:... I didn't understand it acoustically!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I repeat it because it was acoustically difficult to understand. It is about voting on the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Energy and on the draft law and the title and receipt in 475 of the supplements. [[Call to the Greens: This is the government template!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] I ask you again: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in third reading for this draft law to give a sign on this matter. – That too is the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[Unrest in the hall.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petra Bayr, Dr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues, on 'Shrewd sanctions in the event of human rights violations, rather than any declarations of intent'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Christian Ragger, colleagues on ‘global solution in the fight against the financing of armed groups through profits from raw material reduction and trade’. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:23:43]] 62. Point report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Government template (377, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Land and Forestry Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46328	We are already on the agenda at point 62. There was no oral reporting. Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46358	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today an adaptation of the teacher's right to teach in agriculture and forestry. I would like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation for these teachers and the institutions in which they work. On the one hand, these are the national teachers in the specialized schools, where skilled workers are trained, where, for example, village helpers are trained in Lower Austria and where young farmers can also advance their teaching regarding theoretical teaching. In this context, I would also like to mention the teachers who work in the higher federal teaching institutions and who also do excellent work in the federal states and in the regions. To sum up, these educational institutions are a formwork for us farmers, but also for many other women and men in this country, who get a basis for further career development. A warm thanks to all the teachers who accompany our children, the young people and also the adults in education and training. - Thank you very much. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogluwer.]] From an agricultural point of view, there is a really challenging year behind us: the corona pandemic, which has hit globally, African swine fever in Europe and the difficult markets in certain sectors. But it is also important to look back with a certain degree of gratitude in this difficult situation, because it has also been a great success. On the one hand, this concerns the debate on the new agricultural policy. We've got it. ensure that a certain degree of practicality and a stable budget are guaranteed. We succeeded before the summer in adopting a package of discharges, which has resulted in a reduction in social security contributions and also in tax solutions to improve the sales situation. In these days, the new package regulation has been completed with 1. January 2020 will enter into force. This is an important step towards debureaucratisation for our farmers. We also managed to adopt a forestry package before the summer, which will help to secure the global forestry industry in Austria over the next few years and decades. The situation is demanding, but we are also there when it comes to implementation, the first measures will come at the beginning of next year. We have also managed to set up 120 million euros in the area of investment in more animal welfare in order to ultimately make our businesses fit for the expectations of society – in the hope or in the struggle for – what is necessary – these higher standards, when they arrive at the markets, will also be paid off. But I would also like to take a little look at it, because we are experiencing difficult weeks, difficult months. The first project I would like to address concerns the situation of gastro-suppliers. These are commercial establishments that depend on a hotel or gastronomy, and this also concerns agriculture. The meat market is difficult in many areas, but earth apples and vegetables are also difficult to market in some regions. We are fighting for solutions in order to achieve a certain degree of relief for the companies concerned. In this context, however, the objective is to reduce the number of infections so that in the end we can raise our farms, which operate in the gastronomy, in the hotel industry, in time, too, because this is also a very important factor from an agricultural point of view. Secondly, public procurement. Yes, the state, the public institutions must go ahead with a good example. When we order organic, we have to buy organic, when we order AMA seal, we have to buy AMA seal. The bureaucratic and also the legal framework conditions are made; and I know from the ministries that in 2021 there will be even more efforts to offer Austrian quality in the public canteens. I would like to conclude by calling for more fairness along the value chain. This will need it, because it cannot be that, for example, the retail trade of foodstuffs ultimately celebrates sales records, but at the same time it is simply not an income to generate in the original production. It will be necessary for us to raise awareness of this – and I would like to thank you for the activities against food waste – and it will be necessary to discuss this issue of Austria’s bonus also in connection with the further development of the AMA seal, and it will be necessary to further improve the designation of origin in an Austrian context, but also in a European context. Mrs. Federal Minister, I can thank you and your team very much for your commitment. You are our icon, you are moving ahead, and it has really gone a little further from the agricultural perspective in 2020, even though times are difficult. – A warm thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Estimated Austrians, I can assure you that the Austrian farmers believe in this country and work hard every day to ensure that we – and only together – get out of this crisis come out. – Thank you, a nice Advent and until the next time. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46444	Mrs Petra Förderwinkler. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46468	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! As my previous speaker mentioned, this draft law is an adaptation of the Law on Service Law for Agricultural and Forestry Country Teachers to the new law of service in the pedagogical service. We shall vote in favour of this. The only question we want to question is the temporary use of other schools without consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46492	Next speaker: Ms Dipl.-Ing. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46517	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Drag gospe in gospodje doma pri ekranih! Yes, the law or adaptations presented are urgently necessary and we also welcome them because they ultimately allow for permeability and the development of personnel which has not yet been possible. We also see in international comparison that especially our agricultural schools, whether the federal schools or the state schools, provide a very good basis for the students there. The schools are very well accepted, including children and young people who do not come from agriculture because they offer a lot of practice, and this practice offers young people many possibilities for development. We all followed the discussion and call for Christian Bachler and his mining farm to be rescued from the crisis last week. We all have been following how solidaric Austria acted at once, and in the shortest time, already the next day, enough money was set up to remove the debt almost in cash. How do such situations arise? They are not unique. Christian Bachler is not the only one that has happened this way, no, we have the situation in Austria that many farmers are standing on the wall due to lack of liquidity and a debt with their backs. This is not a bleak step of Austrian agriculture, which is unfortunately the current situation of God. Next week, agricultural support will be transferred, and in the end, too, these subsidies will not cause farms to stand well. What does it take to change the future; where does the future begin? – Future always begins with education, with good education. I wish to inform all teachers who will teach these schools according to the new law of the ministry, a far-sighted view that they can give to their students, namely: to invest differently, to think about what their business can be for sustainable schooling, which ensures that their children and grandchildren also find a home and a good life, a successful life there. This is not possible by planning investments after that, where there is the highest level of support, but it is by learning at school how to calculate well how to do your accounting and how to manage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Without mathematics in these schools, this will be difficult, so I would like to make a request here: Let us consider whether the curriculums we are currently finding include enough mathematics, enough accounting and enough business administration to enable students to build up a future in which they are successful. It is not only about price policy, it is about investing with far-sightedness, it is about a logical agriculture, which is also comprehensible to consumers; and it is not just about shattering good packages. I am confident that this will succeed in a few schools; the basis for a good future will succeed in schools. I wish you all a nice, contemplative adventure time, happy Christmas and a good new year! Srecno in zdravo novo leto ter Lepe Praznike. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46568	Ms Elisabeth Köstinger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46592	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural and advanced education system has a very special position in the education system, especially because it is located in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism and we honestly treat our agricultural and forestry schools like a jewelry box, because we know that our young farmers in particular are the future of agriculture in Austria. That is why it is so nice for us today that we have made this novel after many years of negotiations. We have an extremely high level of education in our agricultural and forestry schools. You only need to look at the results of the central matura: There, their graduates are always in the forefront, and this is also due to teachers in these schools. At this point really a very, very great thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with today's novel, we are creating the conditions for uniform application in middle management. We create a continuous system, and, above all, for people who have been in the education system for a long time, massive improvements. Allow me to express great thanks to those responsible throughout the education system in Austria! We know that this year, through the Corona pandemic, we have faced particular challenges, especially in this area: The distance learning, the conversion to digital systems, all of this has posed not only great challenges for families, but also for our teachers, no matter in any field, and also in the agricultural education system. I believe that what is especially good for us is that in the agricultural and forestry schools not only the curriculums are taught, but also pride and appreciation for land and soil, for our agricultural production in Austria; in addition, a large proportion of heart formation happens. At this point again a warm thank you: With this novel, we have achieved a milestone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46636	Next speaker is Ing. Johann Weber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46662	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! We have now been able to hear a lot of positive things about agriculture. I am, as I have said before, teachers in this school system. Especially the agricultural schools in their various forms are a very, very popular form of school especially among young people outside the rural area, we have already heard this. The motto of many of these schools is: Learning for life – really for life. At the school where I can teach, at my school, we have the motto: With us you learn practically everything – the emphasis is on practical, because we have a very practical training. The students in our school system really get a very well-founded education and are very well prepared by the colleagues for the life after training so that they can then realize themselves accordingly in the house and farm; and not only in the house and yard, but also beyond. In one of my last speeches, I have already brought the example of Markus, who attends the school with us, the training as a skilled worker, then made the teaching with Matura and then went to the university. This is a continuous education system, which does not end with the agricultural skilled workers, one can continue until Matura, until university studies. That this is all possible, there are also teachers in this education. This adjustment will also make it possible to bring some justice into this system. We currently have 1,693 teachers employed in the old teacher service law in Austria. In the new service law it is 174, which has so far been able to apply for management functions in medium-sized management. Now these 1,693 are added, which means that much more teachers can apply for management functions. We are all interested in the fact that the best personalities can come into a leadership function. This will be ensured, that is possible now, that is fair, that is good, that is forward-looking. I would like to say a very cordial thank you for being here today unanimously – as you can already hear it. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish all my colleagues, but also all the listeners at home, a blessed Christmas festival, a good Christian child and a good new year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46699	The word now comes from Ing. Manfred Hofinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46724	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Landeslehrer Service Law, the Novelle which the Federal Minister has just presented. It is already very significant that we have a very wide and diverse educational landscape in Austria. We have very good universities, colleges, a differentiated school system with gymnasiums and secondary schools, elementary schools and vocational schools. Special emphasis should be placed on agricultural education: This education is truly unique, because it finds great encouragement. At 80 locations in Austria, our young people, the children of the farmers, are taught: and it is a very controversial area in the field of education. They are between 14 and 18 and 19 years old and are very comprehensive. In most cases, there is an boarding school, which is also a question of education in human beings, of education as a whole. I think that works very well. The competition, however, stimulates, and that is why teachers in these schools are particularly interested in providing children with something. I believe that this is also the reason for the success of these schools that they are adopted so well. With this novel, we achieve that it will allow all teachers of the country to take a leading position – that is something essential – in order to exploit the potential of these teachers. We also achieve what the Court of Auditors has proposed or proposed, we can really build a cost-effective management structure. Additional head offices are introduced: the head of the department and administrative support and representation for the head of the school. I think we're on a very good way. The education system in agriculture The area is really excellent. This is also demonstrated by the number of students in this controversial area. Finally, in this difficult year, I would like to thank all teachers once again for what they have done. They switched to Distancelearning – that was a real challenge. The practice was also completed and so on, and so on. Thank you very much. Finally, I would like to make an appeal to all consumers: The Christmas party is in the open. Please buy You're regional! You get a very high quality of food, you support the economy, agriculture, and above all you contribute to ensuring self-sufficiency with food in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46772	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - No, that's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and continue to complete the agenda. [[19:44:01]] 63. Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on Amendment 1102/A by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogler, colleagues in a federal law amending the AMA Act (546, B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46811	We'll get to 63. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. This is what Mr Alois Kainz has to say. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46842	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate spectators at home in front of the screens! The outbreak of the Corona pandemic led to the fact that for public life, as we knew and loved it, the pause was pressed. Unfortunately, one has to say that in many areas no longer only the pause button was pressed, no, the world that we have known so far disintegrated in front of our eyes. Life will be different. The pandemic changes the way we work, learn and live. Ladies and gentlemen, not only for you and for me has a lot changed over the past year, also for the legal persons of public law such as the agricultural market in Austria. There were some innovations. The AMA Act was amended in the course of the Corona crisis to prevent the meetings of the Board of Directors and the Monitoring Committee from being carried out physically as usual, but only to be held more virtually. The implementation of virtual meetings was initially until 31. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now, the EIA and the Greens want to do so by another year, that is, until 31. December 2021, extend. This is not to be understood in my view, even if we consider that the Board of Directors of the Agricultural Market Austria has twelve members and the Control Committee has eight members. Even municipal council meetings take place for the most part physically despite the corona crisis, not only with eight and twelve but with more members. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with the extension of this lead-out clause, the government is setting a false mark. We urgently need a return to real normality, and this true normality also includes physical meetings at which the members of the respective body can decide face-to-face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46884	I am speaking now of Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46908	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker has already responded to the change of law: In the first lockdown in spring, we decided that meetings of the Board of Directors and the AMA's Control Committee, the agricultural market Austria, can also take place by video conference. In the same way, it is possible to make circulation decisions, which should be extended until the end of next year. Mr Kainz, you said that a physical meeting is better than video conferences. I'll give you that. It is certainly better to sit face-to-face at a meeting, and to go from it is only possible by law in exceptional cases. If possible, these bodies can meet, but in exceptional cases – coronally due – it should be possible for video conferences to take place. The same applies to circulation decisions. We hope that we will overcome the crisis well and that these bodies will soon be able to meet again. But there is an opportunity for me to say something about the agricultural market in Austria. There is a lot of discussion about the consequences of the Corona crisis, and one point is to stress that people have seen how important it is that we produce food in the region, in Austria. They have recognized that farmers are doing an important job: They provide security of supply. It is the objective of our agricultural policy that we not only serve markets, but that we also produce food in the region in a top quality, which is also controlled, for the Austrians. This is also the AMA's task. We only have a state-recognised seal of quality, and this is the AMA seal – plus the AMA seal for organic products from Austria – which also shows consumers if they want to buy Austrian food: This is a guaranteed controlled Austrian food. It is important that this is said again and again, because consumers are often confused because there is a wealth of seal of goodness. That is why a large action was launched in Austria this year, under the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, Elisabeth Köstingervoran, with the Chambers of Agriculture, with the youth and with the farmers – with consumers, with consumers. We stood in front of supermarkets and informed consumers about the AMA seal when purchasing the food. Again and again I have also had the experience that people bought food because they thought they were from Austria because an Austrian flag was on it, and in fact the product was not from Austria. It wasn't an AMA seal on it. It is therefore important that we apply for this issue as well. A major effect of the Corona crisis is that regionality is again in the foreground: I would like to thank the consumers who buy Austrian food, which gives them a small farm-structured agriculture. They do so more and more because they have gained confidence in the crisis, and therefore we are forcing this regionality. The AMA makes an important contribution to this, perhaps you have already seen the television spots, currently a few are currently running on the topic of milk. This aspect of regionality is addressed here: We look at the land, we care for the land, we produce food from this country – either in the animal or in the vegetable sector. This creates consumer confidence. I can only encourage consumers to continue keeping Austrian food loyal, because this creates jobs in the region and supports our environmentally friendly path in agriculture. This is also important because the common agricultural policy is being negotiated, which also wants to secure this ecological path. It is thought to put even more burden on farmers, and they are already moaning under price problems. It is therefore important that we find a reasonable solution and that we continue and develop the way in Austria, as it is planned. At the same time, however, we must also look at the fact that the farmers have a survival, an outcome. In this sense, I can wish you a blessed Christmas party, a beautiful, quiet adventure time and a lot of health, and colleague Voglauer – and all of you –: Blažen Božić i srićno Novo Ljeto! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46967	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e46991	Mr President. Minister! Dear Seers! It's about agriculture. We are discussing today the really important issues for agriculture: first of all, the law of the agricultural and forestry teachers, and the current item on the agenda: that the meetings of the AMA will also be possible online. Yes, these are really topics that burn the farmers under the fingernails – the farmers in Austria have quite different concerns! They stand with their backs to the wall, and this will not change the payouts next week! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Income is low: According to the Green Report, on average, agricultural and forestry income per holding does not amount to even EUR 30 000 per year. If you look at this: It's a shame, dear ÖVP, that the average monthly wage is 916 euros – and then you're still talking to the speaker's desk and talking about successful agricultural policy! Don't be angry with me, but that's just wrong! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 162,000 farms have had to give up in recent years. The price for pigs is 25 percent lower than in the previous year, the price for slaughter cows is even 30 percent, and for a kilo of land apples you get only 7 cents. While in Germany trade and politics are diverting and understanding by angry farmers after blockades of several central camps of retail chains, no one in Austria seems to see the urgency of the ÖVP. 18 Farmers' Associations sit in here – 18 farmers' alliances sit here, and I think you all have already visited the course at Niki Berlakovich: “Getting out of agriculture – that’s how I do it right.” Besides show policy, there is not much behind it and not much has come. Mrs. Minister, you're finally starting to work! Ladies and gentlemen! At AMA there are many abuses and massive needs for action, especially in on-the-spot checks, more and more complaints from farmers – you have the opportunity to change this today. I would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity to put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47175	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Cornelia Ecker has now been mentioned. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47203	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Of course, the current self-employed request is also supported by us by the SPÖ, because especially in these special times, the AMA naturally needs effective bodies, especially in the function of the paying agency. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to talk about another subject. Only recently did it become known that Minister of Agriculture Köstinger is actively opposed to decisions we have taken here in the National Council or which have also been taken in the Federal Council. In particular, the fact that the Minister is actively lobbying in Brussels for the use of pesticides, thus breaking the bond imposed on her by the Federal Council, is actually annoying and also disturbing the population massively. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] This is currently also possible in the social media: The anger of the population is really very big and massive. I really find this process very worrying, Mrs Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the trust of people in our country is also destroyed by the fact that no attention is paid to their interests from your side, Mrs. Minister. Especially in the discussion about glyphosate, we see that people want to have banned this drug: Studies that have a large sample show that 90 percent of the Austrian population do not want this plant poison. People want a Prohibition of this highly toxic factory, and what are you doing, Mrs. Minister? – You praise in Brussels hard for it, congratulations! The National Council and the Federal Council decided by a majority that glyphosate should be withdrawn from the market in Austria. As an agricultural speaker of my group, I particularly urge you, as a Minister for Agriculture, to put all the levers that are only possible in order to make the Austrian fields and meadows glycosate-free. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One way to achieve this is to form the second pillar of the EU's common agricultural policy, since as Minister of Agriculture you have many levers in hand. It's EU agricultural funding can long be overdue only provided that farms process their fields without broadband herbicides and also without pesticides with the active substance glyphosate. In our opinion, this is also in the interests of the Austrian farms for a short or long time, because only a healthy soil with healthy food without pesticides ensures the opportunities of local farms in the long term. As it is about the local courts, my previous speaker has just drawn attention to figures that are really dramatic and really embarrassing for Austria. Finally, I would like – not just because Christmas is at hand – that the Greens stand up and make a total ban on glyphosate, which they have so strongly pushed forward in their election campaign, as a condition for the continuation of the coalition. I know that this is a wish which I am unfortunately not going to be fulfilled, and I am therefore also submitting a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] So that would be my wish. Despite this fatal situation in agriculture, I wish you all a contemplative Christmas and a healthy new year! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] [[20:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47370	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is also under negotiation. The word comes from Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47397	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! AMA will now be able to hold meetings on digital channels until the end of the pandemic. Yes, of course! ==References== 19th century! The only question I still ask myself is why you can't allow this time-limited and simply permanently, but well, it should be so, we should not fail. Since Mr Berlakovich has already talked about the AMA and above all about the AMA seal – I would like to talk about it today – and about the fact that there is already a campaign of AMA marketing about the AMA seal: Honestly, I see this diametrically differently. I didn't trust my eyes with this advertisement. It is praised that the AMA seal guarantees regionality, transparency and freedom of genetic engineering. It's suggested. In other words, this is an error of consumers. It's just wrong, and yes, it's lying. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Streetr: Go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] - Yes, it is! Why do I say that? – There is no requirement for the seal of quality – and you know that just as well as I do, Mr. colleague – regarding the feed used, I speak – and I speak of pig farmers of course – when protein feed is bought, of course, they come from South America, and yes, they are genetically modified. You know that as well as I do. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then you can't just sit down and say that the products with the AMA seal are free of genetic engineering. Advertising suggests – and you cannot deny this either, Mr. Col. – that the products come with the AMA seal from sustainable, native agriculture. Many businesses definitely work like this: They have a circular economy. There the feed is grown in the fields, the animals are fed with it, and that is then marketed. Many also buy too, and you have to look at that critically. “I look [...] exactly because I look at the AMA seal”. – That's what it says in advertising. We have just looked at it carefully, and you have to do it in this case. The seal of quality now also adheres to products in which the robbery is on the Amazon, produced with massive use of chemical-syntthetic plant protection products and partly on illegally reddished surfaces. Why is that important to me? – AMA marketing is financed with a lot of tax money and forced contributions from farmers. The local consumers and, yes, the farmers too, deserve better. They deserved that the money be handled in a meaningful and honest manner and that their interests be taken seriously. It is also so important to me, because there is a lot of money being taken into hand to explain a standard – that of the AMA seal – which is in fact not inexorably high above the standard which meets the minimum statutory requirements. That may have been okay 20 years ago, but today it's not. We really have to ask ourselves the question: Who benefits from the AMA seal? – I know exactly who does not benefit from it. It does not benefit farmers, farmers, because the AMA seal supplements – you all know – are minimal, and it is misleading for consumers. It's just not acceptable. From my point of view, the red and white-red seal of quality should be in the framework of the European standards for agriculture, which is sustainable, which is as regional as possible and which is also transparent, Mrs Bundesminister. That is why, as an opposition today, I, together with Mr Ecker and Mr Schmiedlechner, are bringing in a motion for a resolution on the adaptation of the AMA seal, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, this can only be a matter which is very close to you. We would therefore be really pleased if you would support us here today. Mr Berlakovich and ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is a request on which it is only about strengthening Austrian agriculture. That must really be in your mind, and that is why I would be very pleased if you agreed to this today, and I am looking for you to do so. Thank you. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[20:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47538	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, it is properly put in place, and it is under negotiation. Mrs Elisabeth Köstinger has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47567	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President. I think the corona pandemic in recent months has especially shown how important and how system-relevant agricultural production is in Austria. It is not natural that in Austria there is such a high degree of self-sufficiency in almost all product categories that we need – whether in the meat sector or especially in cereals, in milk, egg products. Austria is not dependent on imports, but produces its most important domestic food itself. That is our thanks to the diligent farmers who make 365 days a year for our society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have ensured the smooth work of the agricultural market Austria by amending the AMA legislation. It has already been mentioned today: ==References== In December, payments to our farmed family farms will stop again. I can certainly correct Mr Schmiedlechner, who has said that the subsidies will be paid out. – The opposite is the case: What we're paying out is a performance fee because our farmers are doing so much more than just producing food. They manage rural areas, keep the villages open, and ensure that thousands of farms can create additional jobs. We have just reached a historic solution in the sugar sector. Farmers secure jobs in this country. You can't appreciate that enough, and for that there are the charges. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the same time, with the amendment of the AMA law, we are also making improvements when it comes to simplifying internal processes. This concerns the decision-making capacity of the AMA Management Council and the Control Committee, which can also meet online at the same time as a pandemic where contact restrictions are required. That makes sense. I should also like to ask you very cordially. I think it's high time to take the ideological procrastinations. Agriculture faces very, very big challenges. You just need to look at the current pig price. I think it costs the 20,000 pig farmers in Austria to smile tiredly when some demands are formulated here in the House. There is currently a pig price of 1.31 euros per kilo in Austria. It's an insanity. But this is not only due to the corona pandemic, but also to African swine fever. In my opinion, producing oneself here and having no idea of market mechanisms is quite embarrassing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] We will always be on the side of our farmers. We will never point to a professional group and pretend that there is a single solution in a European internal market, which is so difficult where consumers decide which products they buy. [[Abg. Loacker: Do you know how to write market economy?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] We will continue to do everything we can to do with the AMA seal and a mandatory mark of origin and quality. We can be proud of what has happened in this area over the last decades. Once again, thank you very much to the farmers who work really hard in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47636	The next speaker was Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47660	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like to add a few words to the comments made by Mr Schmiedlechner. He complained about what courses there are in Burgenland, and Mr Berlakovich has explained in detail the last time why and why this is so and what content these offers have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forging Lexer]] There are only two options: Either Mr Schmiedlechner has not listened or he has listened, but he has not noticed what Mr Berlakovich has told him. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Forging Lexer]] The second thing is: You mentioned that the farmers are complaining about the AMA and that we don't need it all. Now I admit that there are always possibilities for improvement in certain areas of the AMA, as in all other areas, but we need this institution very urgently at this stage. You mentioned that now, in mid-December, the funds will be paid out again. This would not be possible if we did not have the AMA in this form as an institution. It is therefore so important that we take this decision today that the AMA is also capable of deciding in times of crisis that it can make decisions even if there is no physical presence. The importance of this institution is not only given to farmers, but it is also given to consumers. We are talking about the first pillar, namely the processing of applications, the direct payments, the compensatory allowance, the environmental programme, the promotion of investment, and so on, all of this, as well as the controls and, of course, the disbursement of the corresponding funds to farmers. This works very well in Austria in general, much better than in other countries. It is only a very small part where criticism is justified and errors occur. It is important to equip this institution so that it can work well. The second area is the AMA marketing – it has already been addressed –: This is about the food sales, which is about the development and maintenance of markets – including the AMA seal, which is an excellent seal of quality – including designation of origin. It is the only seal where you can actually rely on the fact that the goods are from Austria. We're not supposed to be in a state of uncertainty. I say that this law will enable the AMA bodies to work smoothly in the future, even in times of crisis. Finally, my appeal to consumers: Please buy You're regional now for Christmas! They not only help farmers, but also secure their own jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47713	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. [[20:13:02]] Vote on agenda items 62 and 63
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47742	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we enter into this process, I do not think anyone should interrupt before the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 62: Draft federal law amending the Land and Forestry Law on Services and the Land and Forestry Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft at third reading, to give a sign. – That too is unanimous. The law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on item 63 on the agenda for a Federal Act amending the AMA Act, together with the title and receipt in 546 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner, colleagues on 'Fairness in the AMA's on-the-spot checks'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cornelia Ecker, colleagues and colleagues, on the termination of the promotion of glyphosate products and other broadband herbicides by public means of taxation under the environmental programme of the rural development programme (Chapter 2 of the CAP). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Karin Doppelbauer, Cornelia Ecker, Peter Schmiedlechner, colleagues concerning “no AMA seal for environmentally harmful soya imports”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. [[20:15:40]] 64. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal 1103/A by Mr Lukas Brandweiner, Mr David Stögmüller, Mr Stögmüller, on a federal law amending the Civil Service Act 1986 (518 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47885	Now we're coming to 64. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Michael Seemayer is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47916	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We agree that civil servants make an important contribution in our society. They are now also an important support for a large number of facilities which are currently subject to high loads, and they have been doing so for several months. Mrs. Federal Minister! They always call the extraordinary civil service a valuable reserve in the health system, but we, as well as the law, see this as the same, which is why the extraordinary civil service is explicitly regulated and still possible. With such a valuable reserve, however, we should also deal with it very responsibly. We have been able to gain many insights in recent months, for example, that the population has not collapsed with food, energy and other things of daily use. There is no need for the possibility of using civilian servants differently from those provided for in the law. The distribution of civil servants among the individual institutions can also be handled by the Civil Service Agency. There is no need for any more organisations to do this, except perhaps civil servants want to work out mass tests or vaccinations. It was or is actually enough time to prepare them properly. For poor preparation, our civil servants should not pay the bill. We have also had the experience of many volunteering, even now when it comes to mass testing. A call is sufficient, and there is enough to volunteer to help. Let's put more on volunteering and not on compulsion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, each forced month of civil service also means considerable financial loss for many civilian servants, because they later return to their jobs and earn less. However, it also affects the pension, as reduced pension contributions are paid, and civil service times are not counted again at the early starter bonus. The extension of the additional measures relating to the special civil service is no longer necessary and the rules provided for in the legislation are sufficient to do so. We can, of course, agree with the NEOS motion for a resolution on earlier information when it comes to extraordinary civil service, but it is no longer necessary to extend the additional measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47959	Mr Lukas Brandweiner. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e47983	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Love Seers at Home in front of the screens! Yes, the present bill is actually quite quick to explain: We are extending the measures adopted in April until the beginning of August. Why? – To ensure that, when it becomes necessary, we have to resort to extraordinary civil service, so can we. In concrete terms, these are the extension of special procedural provisions, saying that procedures can be handled faster. In particular, we also provide the opportunity for organisations such as the Red Cross of our Civil Service Agency to help in administrative handling. I have the right to disagree with colleagues in Seemayer. I'm not sure he's been talking to the head of the Civil Service Agency before. I am constantly in exchange with him and I can assure you that it is absolutely necessary that there is support there. If I look at Mr Shetty's motion for a resolution, I must say that I am not quite sure if he has already understood it. It is not about enabling extraordinary civil service in principle, but about administrative support. It will also be difficult without a glass ball to say now whether we will need extraordinary civil service again and how and especially when we will need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. What annoyed me a little after the last committee meeting with colleagues Shetty from NEOS was an interview in the “Kurier” in which he called extraordinary civil service a shameless exploitation of young men. Mr Shetty, the extraordinary civil service was needed for the first time in the history of the Second Republic this spring. The situation was more than serious. I may be reminded of the critical pictures from our neighboring country, Italy. We ourselves have faced huge challenges, including the problem of lack of caregivers. Among the rescue organizations, it was to be feared that many volunteers will fail. That is why I am glad and grateful that our Minister has responded quickly and correctly and called in the extraordinary civil service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is an important strategic reserve. I would also like to remind you at this point – and for this we must all be very grateful – that many young men, most of them, volunteered. Ladies and gentlemen from NEOS, this is not a robbery of the future, as your civil servant calls it, but it is an important service for our whole Republic, for our society, for our homeland. We must be very grateful for this, as has been said. What can we do? – I think it is important that we help together that it is not enough that we need an extraordinary civil service again. In every speech here in plenary, I have already stressed this several times: We need to see that we get the virus under control, and now we have the opportunity. There are surface testing throughout Austria, and my request to all Austrians is: Let us take advantage of this opportunity! If we go to the test, we interrupt infection chains, then we get the virus under control! That's why my appeal and my request are real: Let's get together, let's test!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48041	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48065	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer directly to the comments made by Mr Brandweiner. Dear Lukas Brandweiner, you claim, the payment of civilians is not an exploitation: Civil servants earn 1.50 euros per hour. To say something like this from your position, I think I'm incredibly removed. Of course, this is an inconceivably low wage, and from your position to say something like that, I think I'm really threatening. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We NEOS have already discussed the massive challenges for the boys in general yesterday, and the government parties have seen this as if there were no such problems at all. When it came to the ÖVP, the children and young people are all equally as banana bread backend computer experts and even as time and self-management professionals emerge from this crisis. Mr. Plakolm meant yesterday, Lost Generation, that's all stupid. All that we have put forward in figures, facts and evidence here was simply wiped away. Before the children and young people, who are organized by computer professionals through the corona crisis, can start working without problems or start further training, young men still have military service or civil service, that is, a forced service, with a duration of six to nine months. As we as NEOS, as a liberal party, are basically on military duty and civil service, it is not a secret, but it is not a debate now and especially during the crisis. In addition, it is clear that in the first lockdown as an extraordinary civilian servant, the civil servants, today, have shown an incredible commitment to the Austrian population and have fought an additional three months in the front line against the spread of the pandemic, for a wage, I repeat it once again, of 1.50 euros, because I think you, Lukas Brandweiner, and many of your colleagues for such a wage would not work. I know what it takes for all civil servants working at that time, whether regular, voluntary or extraordinary, to be in operation during the pandemic. Today we are discussing a request from the government, which does not give me anything, does not allow you to extend the possibility of an extraordinary civil service by the end of August 2021, and this, although your PR action is so smooth in spring, that the VfGH must deal with large-scale individual applications. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I wonder if you will still feel if you do something like this if you want to do it quietly and secretly through the committee and therefore hang the damocles sword for another eight months over young people. So if it's only about the lifetime of young men, you can easily plan more than eight months ahead, while otherwise you're just working from press conference to press conference. Above all, you do not provide any justification for the extension, no framework conditions and no clarity. They don't tell us - - – Yes, exactly! [[Abg. Loacker: (initiating by hand typing into a smartphone) You should ask in the office how it really is!]] They don't tell us: Should the extraordinary civilians, for example, be used only to support the corona vaccinations? What exactly does it take to claim extraordinary civil service? Is it claimed only if you want to start a PR defense action again because anyone from the ÖVP has just bad press? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What does it mean, as in spring, for the young men concerned who want to start training, who want to get into a study, who have a job or internship commitment, or perhaps depend on money to be able to pay their rent, because they are able to pay for this money, I have already mentioned it, for this hunger wage of a civilian servant cannot afford their livelihood? What bothers me so much about this change of law is that you want to extend so easily a forced measure that means a massive cut in the lives of those concerned, and you are absolutely inadequate – I did not understand colleagues Brandweiner acoustically, because he spoke so quietly – and want to do everything so quietly and secretly. I think that's a real shame. If you're planning something like that, you'll at least announce it in time! That is why we are also presenting the following motion for a resolution today, because we believe that you are going to go through the extension: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you do, at least communicate it clearly and respectfully to young people! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48204	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr David Stögmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48231	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The civil servants did exceptional things this year. Civil servants do a really hard job during the Corona crisis, and I would like to thank all civil servants – both the ordinary and the extraordinary – for their commitment just before the beginning. [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] With today's amendment to the Civil Service Act, we extend various special civil service regulations once again until the end of August. That's important, that's the so-called Sunsetclause. This is necessary because, as a result of the current developments in the Covid Pandemic, we do not yet know what is to come, and it may be necessary for civilians to return to extraordinary civil service. Let me make it clear once again that this measure will not immediately call for an extraordinary civil service – no, we will not. The basic possibility of convening extraordinary civilian servants was already contained in this law, which has always been in it. The thing we are now dealing with is nothing but that we are changing certain framework conditions, so to speak. As a Member of Parliament, we are well aware of the responsibility that goes with it and which we put in the hands of the Minister. That's why you want to. I would also like to make it clear here that only in the event of an emergency can and should be used. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But what is it about this measure that we are extending? In particular, this is an allocation of extraordinary civilians, including procedurally accelerated measures, and the emphasis is on procedural acceleration, because in this corona crisis something has to happen quickly and is not challenged for long in any way as it is contained in the original law. Furthermore, it will continue to be possible for extraordinary civilians to receive additional holidays, which has not been regulated in the Sunset clause. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] We have also agreed in this government that a renewed convening of the extraordinary civil service can only be done in close consultation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, in which the need and the need are raised – that is also necessary – and a concrete Council of Ministers will be necessary in advance in order to re-establish an extraordinary civil service. It is important that there is this preliminary period so that young people know in advance what will happen in the next few days. To criticise the opposition, something must finally change in the payment of civil servants: Yes! I can also say quite honestly Yes, I see this as a criticism and I can understand it very well, I even share it, but unfortunately there has not yet been a political agreement on this point in the coalition – I say it quite openly. We will continue to work for it because, as greens, we still feel it is necessary to balance it, because it would be fair to move on. It has something to do with justice – a word that is always used – that people who do a decent extended civil service get as much as those who volunteer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shetty.]] I just think that's fair. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will therefore strive to balance the legal situation, and we will demand this justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48309	Mrs Federal Minister Elisabeth Köstinger spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48334	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Civil service is a military service in Austria. Civil service is, above all, a strategic reserve in the Austrian health system. For the first time this spring, civil servants have demonstrated this importance by calling into an extraordinary civil service. This stress test has also been done specifically in the health system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, we have an extraordinary situation through the corona pandemic. [[Abg. Loacker:... Question given!]] We still have massive contact limitations, we hear every day about the very worrying situations in the Austrian health system, the intensive care stations. In particular, we also have at the forefront of civil servants who do valuable work in the field of support, in the field of care, which really constitute a pillar of our health system. [[Abg. Loacker:... Intensive stations, you have no idea!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, are you crazy!? ...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] What is the best in civil service – I have been able to exchange with many of the civil servants over the past few months – is that this is an entry into the office of honor for so many, i.e., many discover, above all at this time when they are doing their civil service, the special importance of volunteering in the system, in society, in Austria. – Especially for this a very, very great thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the legal basis for extraordinary civil service has already been laid down in the Civil Service Act of 1986. However, the design at that time does not, of course, meet today's requirements, so because of the emergency situation, we have innovated the legal basis for the implementation in spring, it was only for measures to be implemented more efficiently. One example is the use of the cross. We have needed extraordinary civilian servants in recent months, especially in the health system. With this innovation, it will be possible very quickly and unbureaucratically to allocate civilian officials within a legal entity, where support is really needed. For extraordinary civil servants, we have set the same time-limit as for the ordinary. Furthermore, we have also provided the opportunity to serve the administrative process of an extraordinary civil service of an external legal entity. This was particularly important for us, because the challenge was not only to be sought at the federal level, but it was above all the federal states, which also have the responsibility for the care system, which have asked massively for this support. Together with the heads of state, who also recognize civil service organisations, we have created a very efficient and powerful opportunity, which we now want to extend with this novel. I can really thank you very much, very much, at the Red Cross. Cooperation over the last few months has proved particularly successful in the allocation of civil servants. Our operational organizations in this country, in particular with the main officials, are doing extraordinary work and together with civil servants and volunteers, this is an inconceivably great system that we can all be proud of together. The provisions were laid down by the end of 2020 and the proposal for an initiative will be extended by an additional eight months. There are currently no concrete plans for a new call for extraordinary civil service, but of course we must be prepared for all events for the next few months, so the extension of this Sunset provision is the prerequisite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shetty.]] At this point, I should like to stress – although we have held discussions for several hours – that we did not first introduce the legal basis for extraordinary civil service in spring, but have already been laid down in the Civil Service Act. This possibility has existed since 1986, we have only adapted it to the current challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, I really ask you to extend this sunset clause by eight months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48422	Mr Mag. — Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48446	Mrs. Minister, you said that the civilians were the strategic reserve in the health system, and have justified this proposal for a law that we need such a staff at the intensive care stations. – It’s just such a professional displeasure that you should generate yourself to sit here with this ignorance. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: No!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a fool!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48550	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Do the clubs want a break? – That is not the case either. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 518 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those colleagues who also give their consent at third reading to a positive sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Yannick Shetty, colleagues, on the "clear framework for the extension of extraordinary civil service by the end of August 2021". Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[20:38:28]] 65. Point Report of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour, Family and Youth on the continuation of the Austrian Youth Strategy (III-186/556 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48628	We're coming to 65. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Carina Reiter is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48658	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear viewers! Only a little further together, as is the Austrian Youth Strategy. Youth policy is a cross-sectional matter, saying: all policies are needed. The Federal Government clearly acknowledges the need for young people to grow up to be self-responsible citizens. Our young people should participate in the social and democratic processes and they should be given the necessary tools to do so. I can quote the American writer Pearl S. Buck once again: The youth should go their own ways, but a few signposts cannot harm. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The four areas of action of the strategy can be seen as a guide. Various youth goals have been developed in these fields of action. In so-called reality checks, these goals have been looked at and reflected with young people. The youth goals are the starting point for the continuation and further development of the Austrian Youth Strategy. In order for this to succeed and, as you say, to have a paint, the active involvement of young people and professionals is an important aspect. Finally, it is about common goals, visions and fundamental principles of our Austrian youth policy. The overall coordination and strategic further development of the Austrian Youth Strategy will continue to take place through the Youth Competence Centre at the Federal Ministry of Labour, Family and Youth. In the Ministries there are other central coordination bodies. As mentioned above, youth policy is a cross-cutting matter, and so there are youth goals that naturally concern several ministries. So, as everywhere in life, cooperation makes sense. So what is it about in these fields of action? Education and employment is one of these areas of action: We are doing well in Austria because our society is made up of people with diverse talents and qualifications. Young people should be able to develop their talents as best they can, then they can also use their opportunities and are best prepared for future challenges in the workplace. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Another field of action is participation and commitment. Misstepping, co-designing and sharing – this is a lively democracy. For this to happen, committed people and also framework conditions need to be made possible. Especially in Austria we have a strong volunteer tradition. Of course, we must continue to do so. In the field of life quality and togetherness, it is about the areas of life which are of great importance for young people in growing up, e.g. health, environment, mobility or family, and of course it is also about perspectives and satisfaction in life. Another important field is media and information. Especially youth policy can and must write digitisation on its flags. Especially young people are professionals when it comes to acquiring new technologies or media. The Austrian Youth Strategy is a ongoing process that is constantly evolving and, above all, is designed to address changing challenges. Especially in the field of youth work, whether it be in the non-school youth work or in the voluntary field – in associations such as the country youth, the pathfinders or also the Austrian costume youth and many more who engage in a lot of heart blood and volunteer something – there is a lot going on, and there are ongoing changes taking place. It is very important that the goals can also be adapted by political means again and again flexibly. In the long term, the Austrian Youth Strategy provides the basis for the recognition and encouragement of youth-political links, the opportunity for young people to participate and their life realities to be seen. Thank you to those responsible for the youth competence centre for the important work, including those responsible in the respective ministries and, of course, also to the entire youth organisations, the Federal Youth Office and the many associations that make themselves strong for the concerns of the youth. The Austrian Youth Strategy is the basis for the future path of Austrian youth policy. The fields of action and objectives drawn up are as signposts it is present. Let us stay together, let us make it visible to each other on a common path of youth policy in Austria, and let us see that we are implementing the measures well!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48736	Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48758	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am really pleased that we are discussing the youth strategy here in the National Council on a SPÖ ticket today. I think that's extremely valuable. Yesterday in the Current We have already talked about youth policy for an hour. Unfortunately, the subject too often has much too little space in this House. Why is it important? – The Youth Strategy is basically the guiding principle for anchoring and acting across all sectors when it comes to youth policy. That's very important. It is about allowing young people to participate in social and democratic processes. That is why this agreed and common youth policy strategy is very important. It has already been mentioned, from the field of education to employment, media, participation to quality of life. All these are important areas of action that we have also discussed with experts in the Committee. They too, as with us, have remained open to some questions. Where are the concrete measures and indicators to which the strategy can be measured? Where is the financial resources to implement these measures or the strategy in general? A central issue that has arisen over and over again in recent years, child poverty, is in fact lacking in this strategy, although it is said that there should be a national action plan against child poverty or poverty in general. We are still lacking clear political competence: Who is responsible for politically filling and implementing the Youth Strategy? These are very clear topics that are still missing in this scaffolding to give the whole life. We say quite clearly: This must be done with transparency and co-determination. As a National Council and as a public, we want to be informed of how the further steps are how the strategy is being fulfilled. We want regular evaluation reports. I can also say one thing: The reality checks provided for by strategy would be very important – please roll out across the board, which would mean an insane added value for young people's participation in the legislative process. One more thing, because it's really a permanent burner: The UN Children's Rights Committee presented its concluding observations to us just a year ago. There's a lot of action inside, how we can empower children and make the best possible for them. If we take these closing observations, we'll cut them into the youth strategy – I think that would be a great addition, there would actually be a big field there, and we could actually get into action right away. In any case, we will ensure that the youth strategy is transparently filled and shared. This would be very important in order for us to come to a colorful, diverse field of activity, a youth strategy in which also suggestions from the experts, the Federal Youth Office, for example, of the Children's Rights network find their way down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48803	Mrs Barbara Neßler has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48827	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have now more and more talked about the situation of young people, about the fact that this time is not easy for them. On the one hand, we look back on a really strenuous year, on the other hand, the corona pandemic is, of course, saddening our prospects for the future. I am therefore glad that we had the opportunity in the Family Committee to deal with the youth strategy and the current situation of young people in detail, with the involvement of experts and experts. We know that social contacts are limited, we must take seriously the fears of the future that young people have. The crisis hits or can also affect the psyche of young people. You remember, in the last National Council meeting, I talked about how the numbers of mental diseases look. The Council on Wire, for example, has spoken of an increase of 146 percent in the number of questions relating to mental diseases. That is why we have put a focus on children's and youth health in the Covid team with four experts, and we have increased through ÖGK by 20 000 therapeutic places or also increased the financial resources from Council to Wire. We will, of course, stay there in the long term, because, ladies and gentlemen, a mental illness in 2020 must not be a taboo issue. A mental illness is not a weakness, it is a disease, and living with such a disease requires a lot of strength, and it also needs a lot of strength to talk about it. We have the opportunity to become an international model with the Youth Strategy. The long-standing demand for cross-border cooperation and participation in the form of reality checks has already been met here. We are on a good path, which we must continue with the involvement of young people and youth organisations, so that the youth strategy continues to succeed. Finally, I would like to thank all the young people who really have to give up much. I believe that we can see how important solidarity is in the crisis. By the way, it would also be desirable for all parties to do something to address the crisis, and I painfully miss the FPÖ, which not only does not contribute to it, but also simply plays with the fears of people. Dear FPÖ, the crisis can't be small-minded, so you can still make so many Coke-Corona tests! By the way, this has the same logic as if I were going to do a pregnancy test in Coke. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: That's it, exactly!]] We are all together, and I expect all parties to assume responsibility for the well-being of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48865	I call Mr Yannick Shetty. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48889	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We are now discussing the follow-up the Austrian Youth Strategy. The experts in the hearing have unanimously stressed that the Austrian Youth Strategy is an important step, but perhaps still a bit expandable. I would like to put it a little less diplomatic, because we have already heard what the criticism of this youth strategy is: The youth targets set in them are purely headlines, there are still no concrete measures to achieve these objectives, there are no criteria on the basis of which success is to be measured, there are no time-limits for achieving these objectives. So until now, this Austrian youth strategy is rather a kind of mind map on the part of the Ministry, although I already believe that the Federal Minister would be responsible for working specifically on a youth strategy and not just on a mindmap. In the hearing, the invited expert Lukas Sustala stressed how devastating the current labour market situation is for young people, for young families, for new professionals. He speaks of so-called scarring effects that these people will still feel for years, as measured by the 2008/2009 economic crisis. This sustainable impact on young people is now to be combated, and not at some point in the first half of 2021, in which action and measurable success criteria are again lacking. That won't be enough. Mrs. Federal Minister, we expect a great deal from you, you are the Minister for Family Affairs and Youth and are therefore the main responsible person in the Federal Government. I would also like to stress another aspect that has already been raised by Mr Holzleitner, namely what the expert Elisabeth Schaffelhofer has addressed and criticized from the Children's Rights Network, namely the lack of linkage between the Youth Strategy and the Conclusion Observations of the UN Children's Rights Committee and the associated long-term and evidence-based children's rights process at the UN. At this point, you would like to refer to the Children's Rights Board. – With all due respect, but since the publication of these closing observations in March 2020, the board has said exactly once online, and no further action has been discussed, no further session has been planned, no timetable, no strategy has been called, it has been as vague as this youth strategy that exists here. I very much regret that: It seems to be in your ministry that young people who have not declared youth a priority, although I am not quite clear where the priority lies in your ministry. This is not only my opinion, but also the opinion of experts: that you do not take the political lead for children and young people. You have to do this because if you as a youth minister do not take on this responsibility, no one in the Federal Government will do so. I would urge you, Mrs Minister, to wake up from the sleep of thorns in relation to young people and to assume your responsibility for young people in this country. Complete this youth strategy, these headlines with life, use already existing know-how – it has already been listed a lot, many expert opinions – and put the concerns of health, rights and the future of youth above everything else – it does not do anyone else in the Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48935	Mrs Bundesminister Mag.a Christine Aschbacher has now made his speech on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e48956	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You are already in a time This issue of the Austrian Youth Strategy is nevertheless important and urgent. I am very pleased that we can discuss this issue together in plenary. I take up your suggestions very constructively, but at the same time I would like to represent what is already planned, what is already being implemented, and above all, how important it is that we support our young people in particular now. We are all in an exceptional year, in an exceptional time, and so this means for all of us, and especially for our young people, a different life than we have imagined. Of course, we want to change that again and allow a common life – as soon as it is possible when we have fought the pandemic together. I would therefore like to thank all the young people for giving up so much of what they would like to do every day. I am thinking, for example, of the many conversations I have with the young people who say: Well, in fact, I would have imagined this very differently this year, perhaps thought about an exchange opportunity or also consider future prospects in terms of the labour market. At the same time, however, it is also a matter of preserving the courage that we are now maintaining together, but also of giving prospects. In this respect, it was important that at the end of September we decided in the Council of Ministers to continue the youth strategy with the aim of supporting young people, encouraging them to a self-determined life. What does that mean? What's this about? – This Austrian Youth Strategy of the Austrian Federal Government, under the leadership of my ministry, deals with youth policy, measures for young people in various locations, for example in the sports resort or also in the educational resort. It is no different, therefore it is so important that we all work together on this youth strategy. Of course, it needs a leadership, and it is anchored in the competence center in my ministry. I am very grateful to my employees for this commitment, because there is also a lot of personal heart blood behind it. We also want to speak the language of young people, and it is all the more important that we also implement political leadership for young people. That is what we are doing with this youth strategy. That's more than ever up-to-date. It is a matter of involving young people. It is important to me that we strengthen the participation of young people – where it is possible. This is what we have done, for example, with a concrete measure, which will be discussed at the next item on the agenda, namely the reduction of the working-time election age from 18 to 16, so that young people can also take part in the day-to-day work. This is a very important and correct step. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] However, we have also identified digital skills as a focus – it has already been mentioned. Especially through the corona pandemic, we have experienced an acceleration in the application, and we want to use it and make it particularly accessible to young people. For example, we have also included these measures in the restriction of work, family and youth everywhere; as a focus, for example, is the largest training and training offensive in the history of the Second Republic, which particularly supports young people in the field of vocational orientation, but also in the field of digital skills and even in matching: Where are the talents? How can we support the talents so that they can best be developed? This is important for us to introduce this into new working worlds, with the support of digital application. Wherever this is important, it is important to strengthen youth employment. We set up the Youth Employment Task Force in early summer, enabling more than 25,000 apprenticeships and bringing back 125,000 young people to employment. There is every single step in the right direction, and we must work together to ensure that this is implemented even more intensively and that our young people are particularly well prepared for the labour market. In this respect, cooperation with the Minister of Education, with the Minister of Social Affairs and also with the Minister of Economic Affairs is necessary. For example, it is also about implementing the upgrading of teaching together to bring young talents in front of the curtain. For example, Euroskills is waiting for the big event to take place in Austria. Of course, we have also included the apprentices in the corona-short work, supporting them because it is about providing the best possible and broad support for young people. In terms of participation and commitment, I would also like to highlight the entire youth organisations. The participation is large. The area of voluntary cooperation and cooperation is such an important and central one. If I think only of my own youth, in which different voluntary organizations I was allowed to work, be it at the Musikverein, but also in the student representation area, where you already learn a lot. What's particularly important to me is: This is accessible to all young people and to all young people. This also gives us strong support to open youth work, because it is about shaping youth policy, especially with the direct involvement of young people. That is why these reality checks are so important, because we have set up a structured process of involving young people directly in all measures, because we are making policies for young people. Accordingly, it is important to make the young people involved in this process of involvement. In this sense, we ensure that every youth goal, as a result of our involving young people, is challenged in practice in terms of sustainability and meeting security. We are standing in many conversations with the young people and I am also looking forward to more that are taking place, because that is what it needs now. In this respect, it is important that we pursue the vision of giving courage to the Austrian Youth Strategy, giving perspective and enabling support to further develop our own talents, but also identifying them in advance at all. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, however, it is also important that the youth strategy remains flexible. We see this this year in this exceptional year of the corona pandemic: Flexibility has gained even more importance and importance, and that is why we will always adapt the youth strategy with the objectives, but also with the concrete measures, to the current circumstances. We support young people in a self-determined and self-responsible life. The young people are not just our future, but they are here now, and we support them and you now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49038	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49060	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A comment only shortly to be made: Dear colleague Shetty, it is the right of young people to be a bit of the salt in the leaven, but sometimes it is also a matter of life experience and appreciation for other people as to how to choose the formulations. Perhaps you can be a little more careful from your side in the future – to formulate it very politely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The year 2020 was certainly not a normal year and anything but simple. Nevertheless, the question is, do I think we see everything negative – the typical example with the glass: half full or half empty? The young people have really played a major role in keeping the infection numbers down and reducing the risk. There is also a great commitment of young people in helping people who need such a one. Let us think, for example, of the youth of the country! You really can only say: Young people, please go on like this! Society needs, we as a society need your courage, we need your determination, we need your power of action, but also your visions. It is our task that we help them specifically. Of course, as a young person, you also need to learn to take responsibility for yourself, to develop self - determination. If you take the Youth Strategy, you can say that it is perhaps in a way a coordinative task – Mrs. Federal Minister, it is very positive on your part – and it is important that you bring out the talents, that you strengthen and build skills, but also that young people learn democratic processes. Democracy means taking account of each other and accepting the opinion of another person. One essential point is that we are promoting the Office of Honor, which has been addressed a few times. I think there's a lot going on in the positive sense among many clubs, whether that's in the sports area, fire brigade, music and so on. I think we can say calmly that youth is really much better than their reputation, but it is up to us that we trust the young people and that we trust them.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49102	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49123	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! We are currently discussing the development of the Austrian Youth Strategy, i.e. how youth policy will continue in the next few years. The issue is on the agenda today because my colleague, Mr Holzleitner, asked us to discuss it here in plenary and not just end up in committee. Why? – Because young people simply perish very often, for example, when we look at who is meeting this crisis. It is clear, of course, that for all people, no matter what age group, it is an expression, for all, it is actually painful. But if we think about what it means to be young, 14, 15, 16, and at no concerts, at no parties, not to be able to go to any festivals, not even to meet friends, then I think everyone in the heart is hurting, which young people are simply stolen in time. This is due, on the one hand, to this crisis, but on the other hand, to the concrete mismanagement of the government, because of which young people now have to pay with their right to education, with their access to education in order to ensure that you simply do not get under control of the figures and the current corona strategy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, for example, as far as teaching places are concerned, we know when we remember the spring: Youth unemployment, unemployment among under 25 years of age, has doubled in a very short time. Young people are severely affected. Why is that important to us? – Because there would be no youth unemployment. For youth unemployment, there is always an alternative, and that is always training, that is, training. We can always decide that here. It is in our view that Hand. If we say today that we want to increase the over-company workplaces so that there is a place at once for young people who previously had no training, then this is in our decision area. Mrs Minister, you have just talked a lot about the youth strategy in general, you have also mentioned some of the government's current measures, but what specific objectives you have and how this youth strategy should continue, you have not mentioned any example. At this point I also quote the Federal Youth Office, which has clarified its expertise in the Committee, the Youth Strategy needs courageous, big goals. I'm just proposing one thing: Let us end youth unemployment in this country now! That's why I'm finishing up. I think that many of the goals defined in the Youth Strategy, from the Office of Education to Media Skills, are good, since we support you, but the concrete measures will be taken. I also ask you – we have already discussed this and there was no clear commitment yet – that we really receive regular reports to determine whether the youth strategy is sufficient to determine whether it is taking hold of it or whether we need to inculcate it; I repeat this again. I ask you to do so, because I think that would make sense in the sense of young people. And one last sentence, because we always hear, you have to strengthen honor, you have to trust young people: It was mentioned the Landjugend, which really does quite great projects again and again. I was allowed to get to know a lot. But if you really want to support these organizations seriously, you finally adjust their funding money, because it has not happened for years, and this is getting less and less annually. This is also a point that we can decide today if we are serious about young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49181	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - It's not like that. The vote will take place only after the negotiations on the other proposals of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth. [[21:08:30]] 66. Point Report of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the Government Template (378b._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Labour Constitution Act and the Post-Business Constitution Act (557 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49214	We'll get to 66. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Plakolm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49241	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This week is a good week for youth policy: increasing the commitment limit for all working students, the eight-point digital education plan to make our schools fit for the future, a law against hatred in the network and a field of digitization, namely the digital driving licence and the focus on the topic of e-sports – these are many important decisions for the next generations. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In the Committee meetings over the past few weeks, the issue of youth has also been very much focused – in all departments, in all committees – and I can thank the family committee chairman very much for this point, who has made it possible for us to make our own Youth Committee, in which quite a lot of requests have been discussed. [[towards Abg. Sieber]] This committee has also discussed the government template, which is now the one to reduce the electoral age in works council elections. This decision is urgently necessary, because a 16-year-old may choose the President in Austria, but so far he cannot choose his own works council, his own representative of interests. An apprentice can only choose the employee's representation from the age of 18 onwards; therefore, we reduce the active voting age for works council elections, so that it really means everywhere in Austria: Select from 16. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition, the concept of apprenticeship compensation is to be replaced by apprenticeship income. This is just a word, but I think that is a very important decision, because we are always talking about value for our apprentices more. Apprentices do not need compensation for making a teaching, but they earn their own income as full-fledged professionals. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Both are important milestones for which we have been working for many years across parties. We also need this cross-party cohesion in dealing with the corona crisis. We all have political responsibility, whether opposition or government. That's why my appeal is: Go test! Only in this way can we get the virus under control and break through infection chains. We're all full of Corona and we can't hear it anymore. Corona, unfortunately, already claimed too many lives. Think about the risk groups and above all about your family! If we want to experience better times again in 2021, we now have to pull and hold together. Each individual has it in his hand by being tested. This is our only chance at normality for Christmas and in the coming year 2021. And this normality, I think, we all wish for a cross-party approach, whether we're coronal or corona hypochonder. In this sense, I wish you all a happy Christmas. Stay healthy and above all confident!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49311	Mr Köllner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49332	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the young people have not yet switched to Netflix, because now it is about her – Mr Holzleitner has said it before – and this is unfortunately not so often the case in this House. Today, we decide to reduce the active electoral age for works council elections from 18 to 16 years – and that is basically good that way. That's where we agree. Nevertheless, this measure is somewhat half-hearted, because the 15-year-old apprentices are still excluded from the election. Even briefly on the apprenticeship income, because Mr Plakolm has just mentioned: The apprentices earn not only a relabelling of apprentice compensation on apprentice income but also a proper payment. I think that's what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What is at least as important is that we strengthen youth confidence councils as a voice tube for apprentices and young people. A Youth Trust Council is elected every two years. This means that all apprentices have the opportunity to choose their representation at least once in their teaching period, but only a works council every five years. But the boys want to be represented by the boys; that's the way they do in school, that's it at universities, that's it here, and it has to be at the apprentice level. It has not been a long time since the Black and Blue Government wanted to abolish exactly this representation of interest. Although I myself was not yet present in this House, you, my colleague Claudia Pakpolm, were already a youth speaker of the ÖVP here in the National Council. This democratic policy attack on the around 2,500 active and replacement youth trust councils could only be prevented by the great use of the trade union youth and our youth spokesperson Evi Holzleitner. That's worth a thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, however, I wish to look with confidence to the future with the young, and to give you, Mrs Minister, a concrete proposal on how to support the democratic participation of young people and to guarantee their best interests, namely by increasing the duration of the education exemption to three weeks and extending it to all replacement youth trust councils. I think that would be a good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49386	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49408	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, 12 years ago, the election age reduction was called for in operational council elections, at that time – interestingly – by the ÖVP in 2008 by the then ÖVP youth speaker. There you can only say: Bravo, after twelve years, this law is now being implemented. We support this government template so that the election age of 18 to 16 is reduced in the elections to the Works Council. Young people with 16 may, we have already heard, vote in the National Council election, in the country election, in municipal elections, in EU elections, and now also in the election of works councils. In the future, young workers, workers and apprentices will have the opportunity to respond better to their concerns in the workplace in this age of election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49435	Mr Zorba is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49456	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! I am pleased that today we can make a real significant contribution to the democratic co-determination of young people by amending the Labour Constitution Act and the Post-Business Constitution Act. With the reduction of the voting age for the Works Council from 18 to 16 years, young people receive more say in their direct working environment. This will bring about a small point which may appear at first glance, but which is extremely important in its effect from the government programme, because the election of 16, including the Works Council, means not only to reserve another day in the political calendar for the urnsgang, it means more participation, a stronger voice for young people and more opportunities to get their own interests heard. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] In addition to the important institution of the Youth Trust Council, which has been representing the concerns of young workers as a result of the union since 1973, young people are now being given another opportunity for democratic participation in their working environment, because with their voice they can not only decide on their best possible representation of interests, as a new electorate group, the responsibility of the Works Council towards young workers will also be strengthened. As there has already been unanimity in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on this change of law, I also hope to vote in plenary today. Let us give young people a voice, not only in federal, national or local policies, but also in their direct working environment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49499	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - It's not like that. The vote will also take place at the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth. [[21:17:52]] 67. Point Report of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the Government Template (483 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Childcare Act (558 d.b.) 68. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment No 1045/A(E) by Mrs Petra Wimmer, Members and colleagues on the compatibility of child care facilities (560 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49545	We come to Agenda items 67 and 68. The debates will be carried out again under one. There was no oral reporting. Member Petra Wimmer has been reported to speak. The word stands with her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49575	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Covid crisis still has a strong grip on families, including self-employed parents who have suffered a lot of loss. That is why we welcome the current improvement in the Childcare Money Act. It will be a relief for parents if they get more childcare money. However, there are many more construction sites in this law. In my view, a comprehensive and beyond-the-covid crisis reform of the income-dependent childcare allowance would be urgently necessary and would need to take next steps. At the latest after the child care allowance has been paid, parents must decide whether to re-enter both parents and how to look after childcare during working hours. Who cares for the child? In rural areas, families still have no real choice. Kindergartens, which allow for full employment of both parents, are defective goods. The social partners and the industrial associations have compiled themselves precisely for this reason and produced a demand paper to enable the better compatibility of family and work. A request for this agreement is contained in a request from us today, namely that 1 billion euros will be available for basic education in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With the help of these funds, countries and municipalities will be able to invest more in the development of childcare facilities. This goes hand in hand with the training, with a reform of the training of elementary teachers, which is also urgently necessary because we are looking for it. I cannot understand why an application based on an agreement between the social partners and industrial associations was rejected in the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, parents need to be sure that their children are well removed in the care facilities, they need real choices. It is our duty in policy to create the appropriate framework conditions. Voices Therefore, for the benefit of the parents and the children, please submit our request today!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49624	The rapporteur was Mr Großbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49645	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! High house! I have the right to speak about the law on child care, because this too should and must be adapted on the basis of Corona. I am very pleased, Mrs Minister, because families, no matter what constellation or at any stage of life, are of course particularly required. This year, many workers have financial losses due to the crisis, and we would like to see the Childcare Act adapted, namely for those who may also choose a short baby break, for the model of child care support dependent on income. As the child care allowance is calculated, among other things, from the income from the last tax notice from the last year before birth, i.e. 80 percent of the last income, it is to be possible to use the 2019 tax notice for births in 2021 instead of the coronary year 2020, and this, if the financial impact on the person concerned is better and in this way also a higher daily rate. You don't have to ask for that either, it's supposed to work automatically. That's great for the families. Of course, a tax notice from 2019 must be available so that this can also be calculated. This applies, of course, to all parents, to all professional groups. To have an order of magnitude how many people are affected by this law: In 2019, some 225 000 persons received 1.2 billion euros of childcare money. Mrs Federal Minister, thank you very much for your extraordinary work in this Corona year, especially for families, for becoming families and for youth. With regard to youth, I would like to stress and clarify this again, because Mr Shetty spoke about the NEOS at the last summit on the Youth Strategy of Fairy Tale and said that she was supposed to wake up from the sleep of thorns: The minister isn't a thorny rosy, she's not asleep. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Krisper.]] I don't know what kind of cliché you think of the NEOS there suddenly surprises me, but if you're looking for a fairytale figure, then as a six-year-old boy, I'm allowed to give you a book tip on a modern fairy tale with a dragon: “Zogg and the Saviors of the Air” – a very nice book that conveys a different picture of women than your thorns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49693	Mrs Mühlberghuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49715	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to refer to the Government's draft amendment to the Childcare Act. In principle, after the child is born, there are two types of child care allowance that parents can choose between a flat-rate or an income-dependent variant, with 80 percent of the last income calculated for the income-dependent variant. For those who were sent in short-time due to the corona crisis, for example, this might have a negative effect, so we welcome the change that the proof of income of 2019 or 2020 can be presented for births in 2021 and thus an disadvantage will be eliminated. At the request of the SPÖ on compatibility billions for the development of childcare facilities: The central requirement is a right to a child care centre from the first year of life. To this end, I would like to say: This request is very high, and I think that is a SPÖ wishful suggestion. They call for the development of childcare facilities for young children, for young people. I will tell you that there are other options for good childcare. For example, daymothers would be very suitable for this. You should support them more and invest more in them, because especially with mothers, infants are in a family environment and can then develop individually. I think it is a wrong approach to taking money only for the expansion of kindergartens. It is far more important that parents, especially mothers, be financially supported and thus their children can also be cared for at home. I would like to ask the SPÖ Members whether they are not worth any domestic care at all, because if you look more closely at the request, then there is clearly a no. That is why we shall reject this request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We want the freedom of choice for parents in child care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want parents to be able to choose whether to have their child in a child care facility or a mother-in-law to care for or – that is the most important, the most important task – whether the care itself is taken over at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49769	Mr Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49790	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! It is important and good that, in view of the Corona crisis, a further important contribution to the support of families is made by changing the calculation of the income-dependent childcare allowance. In this regard, we should also like to thank Mr Bernhard, who has taken up this issue, which we have expanded and expanded. With the 360 Euro grant for family support, with the increase of the Family Hard Fund, with easier access to the maintenance, with the special care period, we have already put in place many important measures so that we can support the families as best we can. Another measure is now being added, because we will take another EUR 5 million to support young parents financially. On the request of the SPÖ: Yes, there is a clear need for action regarding the expansion of childcare as regards the comprehensive and quality extension of childcare facilities. It has already been mentioned by my colleague today, the first step is, of course, the training offensive, because of course we need good educators. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We're really on it because it's also a matter of heart. Just one sentence in the direction of FPÖ: This is not only a matter of care, because childcare places, i.e. the whole elementary educational area, are not primarily a care area, but that is the first educational area there is. In the context of this issue, I would also like to make it clear that the crisis has already made clear to us who still has the care tasks and the education of children. The FPÖ likes it so, most of the population does not fit it because it is women who have to do double and triple work in the crisis. Women still come to the handcushion when it comes to unpaid work when it comes to care. We must and will change that, and that is what we will do in the grand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49834	Mrs Aschbacher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Our families are particularly demanding, it has been this year, it is continuing this year and it will also be in the coming weeks and months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Our families are a place of love and security as well as the basis of our society. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] To that extent, I would like to say thank you as always at the beginning of my speech, because I cannot often thank the families, namely the parents, our young people, our children, but also our grandparents or the grandparents of our children. [[==References====External links== Belakovich.]] It is therefore important that we take measures to support as much as possible the financial impact as we can and at the same time provide emotional support, for example with the family advisory services. These are currently conducting the consultations online and by telephone, but have also opened on site so that you can contact them as a family at any time, or also to the well-known Hotline 147 advice on wire, directly for our children and young people. I would also like to thank all the employees of these organisations. The financial impact, for example, is borne out by the Coronabonus, also by the Family Hard Fund, through these successful support services, but also through easier access to the maintenance advance and at the same time with the special care period. However, it is also important that for our growing families, where children are on the move, for our young families, no loss is incurred, that there is no financial disadvantages in child care. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore important to me that we decide on this measure today, and I would ask for broad approval. However, I would also like to mention that Mr Bernhard has come to us with the proposal concerning self-employed people, and we have extended it to include all the employees and all the self-employed, with whom a baby is on the move, to become mothers who opt for the income-dependent childcare allowance, so that it does not lead to any financial disadvantages. In this respect, it is important that we now support as best we can in these challenges that we support our children and the families as best we can. However, we must also be aware that we cannot now be personally in contact with the extended circle of our loved ones, but must switch to media such as the mobile phone, but that it is important that we are together. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to say that we as parents always want the best for our children and, of course, there is also a different need for support, not only in childcare. We as parents are particularly related to our children, and this is important not only in the care and education institutions, but also at home. This place, the home, with our families, is more important than ever, and of course we want to bring this value to the political work everywhere. In this sense: Thanks to all the families! Just like we're all here, we have all the families, because otherwise we wouldn't be here at all. To that extent, thank you very much for maintaining it and above all for its cohesion. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49939	Member of Parliament Michael Bernhard has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e49964	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We will come together at a later hour on an important topic, but I would like to pick up something. And that's... It is true that I have taken the initiative. We discussed in May that it is a problem for people who are in short work this year. If they apply for income-related childcare allowance next year, they will have, as it were, generated sufficient income. From May – in June I submitted the request to the Family Committee – it took up until December until this problem was addressed. Now you can say: It's just in time, because the next year only starts in a few weeks. What I find Parliamentary strange – for this you, Mrs Minister, can't do anything, but rather the Greens and the ÖVP – is to appreciate the content of my request by bringing it from your side as a bill, but to postpone my request in the Family Committee. One could have accepted it, reworked it, could have rejected it. The fact that the problem is taken over and resolved, but the NEOS Group's request in the Committee is simply adjourned, I find it quite strange. Well, that would be enough for vanity now, so to speak, if one wants to formulate it in this way, but there is a bigger problem behind it: If you need half a year to adopt and resolve a concrete proposal, while many other proposals continue to wait, then not only the pandemic, but even the subsequent economic crisis that has already been present, has been resolved before you have taken the policy measures. We have topics at the table that actually press time. The family hard work directive was adopted on 31 December. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That is now 20 days, and there is no new directive yet. However, families will need a family hard balance next year. We have a lot of families that are really hard to deal with that need to be saved. They have now talked a lot about love and cohesion and so on. I wish that every family could have that even if they are under great pressure, but what they really lack now is material support. But they play with this material support, because it is now designed for three months. If you are in short work for the third time, then three months of support is far too little. We made a request in the summer that a follow-up solution be needed. I know, Madam Minister, that we have talked about this more often, and I believe you are aware that this problem exists. I just don't see a solution yet! We know that self-employed people who make a request for a family allowance receive a lump sum which is clearly below what they are actually entitled to, indicating that they can demand the remaining amount if they then issue their income tax declaration next year, their annual financial statements. In a crisis where support is now needed, a supplementary payment is half a year, a three-quarters or a year later not the same as what is now being requested. I could talk that way all night. You have now solved a single problem and want to praise it. I am grateful that you have solved this, but the applause you would then get if you were to address all the problems that families currently have due to the pandemic at the same time and with full vehemence and not just about love and cohesion, because with permission: Families have to pay their energy costs, they have to pay their rent, they have to pay their food, and in such a crisis it needs more than warm words. - A nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50027	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth. [[21:38:35]] 69. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the proposal from Mr Norbert Sieber, Mr Barbara Neßler, Mr Petra Wimmer, Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues with regard to ensuring the financing of hospice and palliative services, particularly for children, young people and young adults (559 d.e.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50075	We're going to 69. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Members of Parliament have been told that Scheucher-Pichler is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50103	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The care reform is in all mouths, an old age in dignity and with good quality of life must be assured. But family, ladies and gentlemen, means more. We must not forget the children and young people, especially in this care discussion. They too need a strong voice. I am therefore particularly pleased that we are now coming to this all-party proposal with regard to the financing of palliative and care work, especially, but not only, the mobile palliative and care work. I am particularly grateful to my colleague Norbert Sieber, who has been dealing with the subject for many years, but also to all the other colleagues from the political groups he has brought into the boat. – A great thank you, Norbert Sieber, a great thank you all for this joint request, just today! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is also important that we have made and discussed this request in the Family Committee, because it is a cross-sectoral approach that we need here. We also need to talk to the countries and social security institutions in order to implement this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today's findings of the Constitutional Court on Death Assistance are to be accepted, but for me the protection of seriously ill people has become even more important now. It motivates me very much and it is my personal concern to develop special palliative and hospice work. It is a particular form of care and care that is necessary here, and we are also committed to the government programme for the expansion of hospice and palliative work. We have also done pioneering work in Carinthia in various church organizations in terms of hospice training and in the Klagenfurt Clinic in relation to pain therapy. It is a special suffering, ladies and gentlemen, when children and young people or young adults suffer from severe or life-threatening illness. It is an exceptional situation that arises. Questions arise: which are associated with fear, anger, sadness, with many emotions, with a strong vulnerability of all, with exaggeration and also with a feeling of hopelessness. It's about debt, but it's also about discharge. It's about adoption. It's about last wishes. It is about enabling more beautiful, perhaps even happier remaining hours, but it is also about breathing through the parents, the caregivers, and it is about the siblings who should not be too short. It's about pain therapy, it's about pain-freeness, it's about medical care, about care and much more. We need more offers! There are many volunteered and also projects funded by sponsors, but unfortunately they are not in the regular financing – and this is a matter of particular concern: that we manage to take them into regular financing. And, ladies and gentlemen, we also need more training in the field, we need better help conferences, better interfaces and much more. Families often feel left alone when they get into such a situation. That's where we have to sit. Families who get into such a painful situation where the world remains for them all need our support, all our support and also psychotherapist support. I am deeply convinced that psychotherapist interventions are sensible, valuable and debilitating, can relieve pain and counter death. It is a highly emotional work, whose sensuality I am deeply convinced of. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to do everything possible to ensure palliative and hospice work, especially for children and young people, on a high standard, as part of the care reform. I thank you for this togetherness. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50173	Member Petra Wimmer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50197	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Last week I had the opportunity to visit a club called Rolling Angel in my hometown of Wels. I don't know if you know the club. He has made it a task to fulfill a very last wish of the sick. The volunteers in this association had the wonderful idea at the start of the association when people want to visit a particular place again at the end of their lives, want to go to a concert again, perhaps want to see a football game again – what man wants – to fulfill this wish. For this purpose, a vehicle was purchased, it was converted accordingly and equipped with the medical equipment to enable really seriously ill people to do so. What do you think was the most desired wish in this year? Mrs. Minister, do you have an idea? [[Federal Minister Aschbacher: I don't know!]] – You don’t know, but you can probably think of it: Most people in this year, in the Corona year, just wanted to go home again to say goodbye to their family. This has shown that the great restrictions in the Corona crisis have also led to people dying alone, unable to get to their family and no visit. That's how important it is to see the friends again, the family or his home. This is important for people at the end of life, and it is also important for family and friends. The rolling angels with their wishful fulfillment work very intensively with the hospice and palliative care, and this example already shows how diverse and how individual these tasks are. Hospice and palliative facilities provide care, medical care, improve the quality of life of pedigrees, and this is a very valuable support for families in a very, very difficult time. It is particularly stressful for families when their own child is seriously ill, and in such bad times it takes an intensive support for family members in order not to get into isolation or to be completely placed on themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree on all the political groups: Hospice and palliative facilities do very, very valuable work. We as SPÖ therefore very much support the joint request.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50234	Mrs Rosa Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50255	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Pallium means coat: a coat lying around a patient from which he can take the support he needs in this situation. We interpret the word palliatively primarily as a death accompaniment, palliative therapy and medicine, but already begins with the diagnosis of an incurable disease – a situation in which nothing is the same as before; and imagine that in a cancer - ill child! The core competence of palliative therapy is pain treatment, but also talk, speak openly about the disease, mental care, sibling therapy, and, of course, also mourning and soul care. These services provide stationary consiliar services, mobile palliative teams, daily hospice, stationary hospice and, of course, palliative stations. Ladies and gentlemen, especially for children and young people, due to the severity of the illness and the special emotional burden, a palliative care at home is to be sought by families, and, of course, parents and families need the best possible support and relief. Palliative care in children is used much earlier and it often covers several stages of care for years. Austria has concepts, but not yet a comprehensive supply. We need at least a mobile children's palliative team and a children's hospice team in every federal state. It would also be very important for stationary children's hospice or pediatric palliative beds in every children's and youth department – that would be about 50 in Austria. The annual cost of this would be about 400 million euros, and there are calculations. However, the performance of the individual patient is priceless: a human, dignified, painless care of dying people and the accompanying of relatives in an uncertain time, and this should be uncomplicated and possible free of charge. Therefore, regular funding under the care reform is to be implemented as soon as possible, as the existing services are only partially financed by public funds. This means not only talking but removing the two main obstacles, namely competence and funding. Our goal must be that hospice and palliative care be available to all they need, because no one knows who is from our closest family environment, from our circle of acquaintances may have to take advantage of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50298	Mr Neßler has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50319	I would like to start with the following quote: “Hoffnung is not the conviction that something is going well, but the certainty that something has meaning, no matter how it goes.” If there is a situation in children and adolescents with an incurable disease that there is no longer any hope that things turn to good, then only one thing remains: to do everything to make farewell as pleasant as possible – for the seriously ill children and young people themselves, but also for parents, for siblings, for friends, for family members. The certainty that the disease will be fatal sooner or later is constantly present throughout the family and requires the discussion of farewell, the struggle with death and the confrontation with death. The affected children and young people need the best possible medical support and the families need good support at this time. It is good and important that we create framework conditions to allow all children and young people, no matter what financial conditions they come from, to access palliative services with their families. I am glad that we decide here to adopt an all-party proposal to ensure the financing of hospice and palliative care for children and young people, thus facilitating farewell at least a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50356	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50378	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Despite Lockdown, the situation in our hospitals is still tense. We are constantly accompanied by the beautiful theme of the triage. In this respect, it is very important to focus especially now, in times of Corona, not only on intensive care stations, but also on the palliative stations. Especially in people with pre-meducated diseases where intensive treatment is no longer indicated, there is a different treatment, namely symptom control and symptom relief, and very little is heard about it. It is important to create a safety network and to maintain sound communication. But you should think not only of the Corona era, but also of the time after that. Hospice and palliative care is a special form of care and care. It is tried to enable people with incurable diseases to live in good quality and a life-end in dignity. All the more important is the proposal on which we shall vote immediately. Especially for the youngest in our society, which is also affected, and their families is the work of paediatric hospice and palliative institutions of invaluable value. Through part-stationary and stationary facilities and mobile teams, these children are allowed to take place at home in the family environment can be cared for in hospital, which increases the quality of life of children. They also support parents who are often under severe stress. At this time, parents can be more concerned about the siblings who sometimes get too short due to the challenging times. The families do incredible, and especially in these times of the Covid-19 Pandemic, paediatric hospice and palliative facilities are very important and valuable for the families in order not to be completely isolated and completely placed on themselves. It is therefore all the more necessary to implement the regular financing of hospice and palliative facilities for children and adults provided for under the care reform and to work together at federal and national level to achieve rapid implementation in this cross-cutting matter between social and health and social security schemes. In Corona times – much too often – people often talk about how many people die in our country. Rather, we should ask about the ways. In this sensitive subject, it is particularly important to listen, talk to each other and then draw up political positions. Every human being is an expert in his own life and every human being has the right to die in dignity and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50423	The Vice-President is hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50444	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to thank you very much for this request, which we can all decide unanimously. And quite honestly: I think that every Member of this House has such a highlight in his career, and I admit that this request is in some way already a highlight for me, not because he is so extensive from the financial point of view – I was allowed to carry the family bonus by Parliament in the previous coalition, and of course it was much more extensive – but because it touches me emotionally much more. A few weeks ago, an article about an institution in Vienna was on display at the ORF: Kinderhospiz Netz; my colleague Gudrun Kugler has drawn my attention to this. We went to this facility, and what we could experience there, what we were told there, what we could see, deeply impressed me. I would like to thank the head of this institution, Mrs Sabine Reisinger, and her entire team very much for her work. What they do is great! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] So that you have a face in mind on this topic, I would like to introduce you here in consultation with all the responsible people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Daniela. [[placing a girl's portrait on the speaker's desk]] Daniela is now six years old. Daniela came into the world with a rare, incurable metabolic disease, and to all its abundance she has severe epileptic seizures. The life expectancy that Daniela was given was a very small one. Nevertheless, the parents and the brother Daniela took up the family and cared for all the possibilities they had been given at home. However, they soon had to find that they came to their borders. Then it was the establishment of children's hospice network, which has been helped and provided opportunities for relief, care and assistance. This has led to Daniela being still alive today, as a six-year-old child, living in the family and being loved by her parents and her brother, as well as being greatly appreciated by the whole establishment children's hospice network. It is not only this facility, but many other facilities that represent an invaluable value for children, young people, but also adults and elderly people. I am perfectly aware that this issue does not necessarily belong to the Family Committee, but it was important to us. At this point, I would like to thank all family speakers, Petra, Michael, Edith, Barbara, and all the political groups for having discussed this request together in the Family Committee, because this issue, which is only a small part of the big care reform, was so important to us. We wanted to put an appropriate spotlight on it, in order to ensure that in the negotiations – Mrs Minister, you are in the process, also our clubman Gust Wöginger and Minister Anschhober – this issue is looked at accordingly. I am convinced that this will happen. However, I would also like to thank those who have been fighting for many years on this subject. These are two women who have been working intensively for many years at the Hospiz-Dachverband: on the one hand, Waltraud Klasnic and on the other, Dr. Elisabeth Pittermann. Both are intensively committed to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not, however, want to hide – because it is up to now – that the decision of the Supreme Court which has been adopted today - I naturally accept other opinions, and of course it is clear that this decision of the Constitutional Court is acceptable, yes, of course. [[Abg. Drozda: The Constitutional Court!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: This is a knowledge!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the call of the Constitutional Court to Daniela or to my well-respected parents we care for at home, the call that comes here – the reputation, there is also another way – that oppresses me. That is why this judgment makes me very sad. It is all the more important to me that this very request today is unanimously decided that we are doing palliative and hospice medicine together, so that, despite this decision, the way for Austria remains by the hand – and not by hand – to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50506	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[22:00:34]] Vote on agenda items 65 to 69
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50531	We come to the votes. I'm asking the clubs if they're ready for it. - We can start. We come to the vote on agenda item 65: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of the report of the Federal Minister for Labour, Family and Youth on the continuation of the Austrian Youth Strategy, III-186 of the Supplements. We do this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 66: Draft Federal Act amending the Labour Constitution Act and the Post-Business Constitution Act, together with the title and receipt in 378 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. – The same voting behaviour is also evident in the third reading. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 67: Draft federal law amending the Childcare Act, including title and entry into 483 of the Supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign. – That is unanimous. We shall come to the third reading. – This is also accepted at third reading. The law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Agenda item 68: Proposal from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its 560 report of the supplements. I can ask those ladies and gentlemen who do this to give a sign. - That's the majority. That's why he's accepted. We come to the vote on item 69, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 559 of the Supplements on 'To ensure the financing of hospice and palliative services, especially for children, young people and young adults'. Whoever joins it, I may ask for a sign of approval. That is unanimous. [[131/E]] [[22:02:31]] 70. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Georg Bürstmayr, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the citizenship law 1985, the local law and residence law, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the BFA Procedure Act and the Asylum Act 2005 (552 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50646	We're coming to the 70. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I very much welcome the Federal Minister for the Interior and can give the floor to Mr Stocker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50673	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, even if some do not want to believe or cannot believe: Corona really does exist. And no, you don't get it from the colat drink, and no, we're not yet over the proverbial mountain. That means that we must extend the deadlines that we originally set ourselves and which expire at the end of the year in various corona measures. In detail, these are provisions in the citizenship law, in the local law and residence law, in the foreign police law, in the BFA process law and in the asylum law. What rules are these? – In the Citizenship Act, it is a matter of ensuring that the vow can also be made in writing, in the Constitution and Residence Act, that renewal and change of purpose can also be filed postally or electronically. The Foreign Police Act has facilitated the employment of visa holders. The BFA Act is such that the transfer of unaccompanied minors to regional directors and where the first reception points need to be closed, and in the Asylum Act, it is possible that renewal applications may also be submitted postally or electronically, and the delivery of the residence permit may also take place at its own hands when the application is made. All these measures would expire at the end of the year and should now be extended to 30.6.2021. In this sense I hope that it is not a Sunset clause, it is a corona set clause and that we in this House last time have to decide on such an extension.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50710	Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50731	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree with Mr Mahrer's request, Mr Bürstmayr, to extend the amendments to the provisions of foreign law in conjunction with the limitation of Covid-19. In this context, it should be noted that Austrian citizenship has a very high importance because it has an important democratic feature, namely the right to participate in the political system. This involves the clear and unbreakable commitment to the Republic and its constitution. Identity, loyalty to the Republic, to the Constitution, to democracy and the commitment to equality between men and women are just a few key factors in the successful integration of future Austrian citizens, with every citizenship being the priority of rights and obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, now a little excursion: The separation of Church and State has made this Second Republic a success story – also and especially not to repeat the mistakes from the First Republic. By name it was Kreisky and Cardinal King who, 50 years ago, put the common place above the dividing end. But at the moment, the question is raised for me: Do we want to go back to a preara of the 1970s? I ask, therefore, because the time of prayer on the 8th day of the month. In December in Parliament, the Hort of Democracy, a storm of indignation and outrage was rightly triggered by the population. The Catholic youth and the boys have also publicly criticized the format of prayer. Recently, “The Standard” reported on a “secret in Parliament”. – That’s not amiss, ladies and gentlemen, after all, in the turquoise Dunstkreis there have gathered people who belong to the Loretto movement, or members and sympathizers of Opus Dei, whose long arms reach even the Federal Chancellor’s Office. In this context, we are talking about arch Catholic hardliners, yes, fundamentalists. These people want to link politics and religion to derive from their religion a claim of power and a superior position. Ladies and gentlemen, in the state of the stand, religion was disgraced for party political purposes. She was instrumentalized. The social democratic blood duty is not forgotten, and it will not surprise you if we look very closely and are sensitive. The SPÖ has not fought for decades to bring about the separation of church and state in order to see how this obscene Loretto movement was invited to the High House. [[Congratulations to the SPÖ and to Mr Margreiter and Mr Shetty.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament – which is particularly important to us – is the insignia of the state and its elected representatives, and not any sects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is all the people living in Austria – and that is natural – to celebrate their religious practices. Every human being should make the decision for himself whether to turn to the faith or not. For me, religion is private. I do not want religious views to influence the Austrian Constitution or legislation again at some point. A prayer hour in Parliament is therefore not in place in a secular democracy – just as a parliament meeting or a committee consultation in a church, synagogue or mosque. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Even before the last National Council election, the appearance of the evangelicals with Mr. Kurz, who was celebrated as a savior, caused irritation, indignation and indignation in the Vienna City Hall. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Very critically, this illustrative prayer round also sees the respected constitutional judge Mayer. He is also convinced that what you have organized has not happened by chance. This was deliberately sent out as a signal. Ladies and gentlemen, it was only recently the behavioral former National Council President Khol, who, under Black and Blue I, philosophized to anchor God in the Constitution, and thus made a mood in this small but quite militant group of the ÖVP. The real political response to this can only be to anchor the laity in the Constitution. The answer to political Islam is a strong democracy; the answer is a consistent state protection, but the answer is also the development of fundamental and freedom rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] But political Catholicism is certainly not the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50802	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50823	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Laimer is now making it difficult for me to connect, because I would like to start with a quote that we all know from our childhood, because we have heard it more often at the time: “But it happened at the time that a decree came from the Emperor Augustus that all the world would be valued. [...] And everyone went to appreciate each other in his city." [[Abg. Belakovich: Because Christmas is!]] You know this, it's the beginning of the so-called Christmas Gospel. What I would like to insist on is that already 2,000 years ago governments and laws were the trigger, that people had to move across their country, because the authorities said: Nothing there, you have to come to us personally, otherwise you can't! In the course of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, we have learned that this does not necessarily have to be. ==References====External links== In the 19th century, not only hold video conferences and thus save many, many flight miles, but one can make one or another request in writing without our administration crashing. – This is the content of this law. It was supported by all parties in the Committee. I hope that it will also be unanimously agreed here. And if you ask me, Perhaps we will find that in this area of law we can also take some form of permanent law. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50860	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the submissions of the Committee on the Interior. [[22:13:09]] 71. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1107/A by Mr Karl Mahrer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Georg Bürstmayr, colleagues on a federal law amending the Security Police Act (553 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50899	We'll get to 71. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Deckenbacher for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50926	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Yesterday, the global campaign ended 16 days against violence against women, and once again we have seen how important efforts are in terms of the protection of violence and the prevention of violence. The figures speak for themselves: 36 000 ads and about 1,000 directions per month – this is the state of September 2020. Due to the anti-violence law of 2019, an award procedure for advisory services for violence prevention was carried out by the Federal Ministry, just as they will now be called in the future. However, within the specified time limit, there were too few applications, so that a comprehensive mandate for advisory services was not possible. It is therefore necessary to postpone the entry into force of the amendments to the Security Police Act from areas relevant to the prevention advisory bodies and thus to allow for a new tender. Many advisory bodies feared that they would have to bear the risk of staying at the expense. The costs of the consultation are now borne by the Federal Government. We are also increasing the acceptance of this measure, particularly in low-income shifts – especially in the case of a family budget situation that has already been stressed, otherwise there could be a strengthening of existing tensions. In addition, the administrative burden on the authorities responsible for the prevention of violence will be reduced and financial security will also be created for these bodies. The current advisory obligation for persons subject to a ban on approximation contributes to the prevention of further acts of violence and de-escalation. A hazard – And it's mostly men – therefore, within five days of the arrangement of such a ban, it has to be associated with an advisory body. The advisory hours will be increased from 3 to at least 6 hours, which will of course allow for greater consultation and higher efficiency. But we are particularly concerned – Mr Bürstmayr has already mentioned it in committee – not about a preference of the perpetrators to the victims – no! – but it's about a sacrifice-oriented culprit. I am convinced that we are all very important to all of us in this context. A comprehensive evaluation of the anti-violence law is also intended to guarantee this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Prevention work is particularly valuable and important in the context of violence. We see from this example, to amend the Security Police Act, that cooperation here in the High House works well for the benefit of all those living in Austria, especially those affected by violence at least on this point. . I thank all the parties who agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50978	The honourable Member has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e50999	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After 13 hours of meeting time, we will discuss the amendment of the Security Police Act, and we will discuss the repair of the package agreed in September 2019 with the votes of ÖVP and FPÖ. We remember: This package of anti-violence measures has been strongly criticised by experts, victim and non-violence organisations and also by all the other groups in Parliament. What we decide here today is the reorientation of the measure included in the package for victim protection-oriented culprits. What is the aim of sacrifice-oriented perpetrator work? – It’s about what it’s called working with perpetrators, with violent perpetrators who have committed violence against women. According to Istanbul Convention standards, security, support and human rights are the priority concerns of victims of victim protection-oriented perpetrator work. It includes structured interventions to end and prevent violence. The focus is on the protection and security of the victim. The goal of victim protection-oriented perpetrator work is the sustainable termination of violence. We see that the goal of victimised crime is an important measure in the overall package of women's protection against violence. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] The bill we are discussing today provides for 6 publicly funded advisory hours in the newly created violence prevention advisory services instead of the originally planned 3 hours for the perpetrators who should finance them themselves. This is an important measure. At the same time, however, we know, and I would also like to point out that victim protection institutions have been criticising for years that they have available per victim, on average, for about 5 hours per year per woman affected by violence. There must be no misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen. Violence and victim protection facilities also need the necessary financial means to carry out this important consultation, especially during the period of the Corona crisis, since now, as we all know, domestic violence results [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] the lockdowns or the baseline restrictions have increased dramatically. However, I am of course pleased that the government parties have responded to our criticisms so that we can bring together today a four-party amendment proposal which provides for an improvement in relation to the original bill. In this joint four-party amendment, we were able to achieve an evaluation at the end of June 2022 involving intervention and violence protection agencies. The experience of the victim protection facilities in this area is essential and important, and this is an important achievement that we have been able to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: 100 women warn; 100 women who have been murdered in Austria alone since 2018 by their partners, ex-partners, acquaintances or relatives; 100 women who make it very clear to us how important violence and violence prevention are. Not only on 16 special days a year, but on 365 days a year, we fight violence against women together. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51056	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51078	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some changes have been made under our participation in the government to raise the level of violence in Austria to an even higher level. Among other things, it was laid down in law that those who are based on violence cannot, as in the past, only voluntarily go through violence counseling, but must now be subject to such an obligation. In addition to working with the victim, this is an essential part to advance the protection of violence in Austria and to push back domestic violence. The current amendment to the Security Police Act provides that the costs of violence prevention advice are now borne by the state – and no longer by the risk, as originally stated. This is justified, among other things, by the fact that in economically difficult times one wants to take the pressure from the families. One can join this, although one has to say – and I do not say that the experts of the men's advisory services say – that violence is neither the issue of age nor the income group, there is violence everywhere – but should be so. Why the name "violence center" should now be replaced, does not open up to me, but someone will have thought about it, please. We welcome the fact that the means of sacrifice work are to be increased, that is not a question for us. It is also gratifying that the offer should be extended for the victims of forced marriage. It is nice that there has been a awareness of the problem of the fact that uncultivated cultures, which unfortunately also spread in Austria, really have to face up to it. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, do not give up on the pressure that your government partner might have to face! Follow You continue the course we started together! Those who want to live in Austria must respect our culture and our way of life, appreciate it and should also carry it. If he doesn't want to, he'll still be free to travel. There is no alternative view for us. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51128	Next speaker: Member of the Bürstmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51149	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Among Vienna card players there is the saying: You can only rock with the cards you have. [[Abg. Martin Graf: We play twenty...!]] – That means as much as: It doesn't make any sense to be sorry about how the situation is; get around with it and make the most of it! This is a bit far also the green policy understanding. When we entered this coalition, like all the coalition partners in front of us, we found an extensive legal system in which we may have acted as opposition, but not as rulers; the laws and regulations were and are now as they are at present – and it is considered to be the best of them. That is what we have tried in this area with this novel. We have tried to make a somewhat unfortunate provision, which has led, among other things, to the fact that in the first round of calls for tender, not even enough organisations have applied, so that it can come across Austria to such violence prevention talks together and to carry out on this occasion the improvements that my previous speakers have already described. I am very pleased that this request has been adopted unanimously in the Committee, and I would like to ask you today for your unanimous approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51203	Mr Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51224	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to talk about repairs today, but I would like to talk about the fact that it is really a nice experience when politicians get together, exchange proposals and respond to them. I believe that today we can ensure the quality of the advisory bodies for the prevention of violence, we can ensure the best possible preparation because we have learned from the tendering process. Today, we regulate the increase in consultation hours, we regulate the federal government's acceptance of the costs, and we are not just providing for some evaluation today, but for an evaluation of the entire package of violence by 30. On August 20, 2022, Minister of the Interior Karl Nehammer will ensure the involvement of the intervention agencies, the anti-violence bodies and also the new anti-violence advisory bodies. That's a lot of work. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior and his team very much for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: (delighted) Thank you!]] With the first two points, ladies and gentlemen, we create another incentive to participate in the latest call for proposals. However, the decision is not always so easy for interested institutions, as taking over the activities of an advisory body is linked to extensive organisational and personnel measures. It takes time, therefore, to extend and start the measures by 1.9.2021. I therefore make the following request in this context and also because of an editorially necessary clarification: [[Quoted print version removed]] After this marathon of lecture, I would like to get rid of a few thanks from my side: I would like to thank all the political groups in the House for their cooperation on this subject. Not only do I thank the coalition partner, Meri Disoski, Georg Bürstmayr, as well as my colleague Pfurtscheller for this, but I also thank the opposition: Reinhold Einwallner, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Sabine Schatz – we were in a very intense discussion process – and Stephanie Krisper. Finally, I also heard some conciliatory words from Christian Ries. Thank you for that. Finally, as the chairman of the Committee on the Interior, together with our coalition partner, the Greens, I would like to make a proposal to you, yes, I would like to make a promise. Let us take this decision today on the occasion of a ongoing discussion within and outside the Committee on Internal Affairs. We can then take in the experience of the partners and the institutions on a regular basis. We can react more quickly to developments, and – I think that has proved the discussion too – we can eliminate misunderstandings in communication there and there. You know, I'm very connected to the subject emotionally. For more quality, I invite you all to this discussion process, and I hope that we will achieve what we all want: less violence against women and children in the future. – In this sense I wish you peaceful, healthy Christmas! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[22:31]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51404	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51425	It is my concern to correct something that was previously put into the Chamber in this debate. Who has been working for years on issues such as forced marriage or similar issues such as trafficking in human beings, trafficking in women, genital mutilation? Who has been working for years and decades against these human rights violations and these violations of women's rights? – These are women’s organisations, which are migrants’ organisations, such as Orient Express or Lefö, who do not work with racist populism, but are focused on the victims who empower victims. I would like to highlight this work – that is at the heart of it, it is violence protection, and not the racist populism of your party, which constantly threatens the work of these organizations!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51454	The application submitted before is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. [[Abg. Martin Graf: But Mr President! That must be a call for order: racist populism of our party!]] [[Abg. Soundmeiner: Well...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[22:32:58]] 72. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 76/A and 76/A by Dr Stephanie Krisper, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Law on the Law of the Federal Republic of Germany of Germany, dated 2 February 1988. On April 25, 1952, the Federal Law on the award of the Federal Charitable Marks (Bundes-Ehrenzeigengesetz) and the Federal Law of the Republic of Austria (Bundes-Ehrenzeigengesetz) were created. May 1955 on the creation of an Austrian Honorary Mark for Science and Art and an Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art (Regular Control Act) (554 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51509	We come to Agenda item 72. There was no oral reporting. Member Krisper has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51537	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! At the late hour another important topic with symbolic power: Honorary marks of the Republic have a very high symbolic power, both for the respective institution, the respective carrier and for the Republic itself, which is identified by the award with the honoured person. We must be aware of this symbolic power. With the award, the Republic shall carry out an assessment of the merits that a person has done for the Republic. Now, however, there are extremely stored individual cases of people who have been honored in the past, in which the Republic is now no longer well-informed that they are still carriers of high awards. One of these cases and also a reason for our initiative is Hans Globke. As an employee of the German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer in 1956, he was awarded the Great Golden Honorary Mark at the Band for Meriting the Republic of Austria. In 1933, however, as a lawyer in the Reichsinnenministerium, he had drafted the empowerment law, with which Adolf Hitler turned off democracy, and also participated in the Racial Laws. He died in 1973. We NEOS see urgent legal need for action in the awareness of our responsibility to our history, and accordingly we believe that it is also necessary and possible to reject it. Federal President Van der Bellen also publicly said that the honorary sign law must be newelled. He said to the Globke case: “Of course, it should never have come to an award to Hans Globke in 1956. I therefore believe it is right and necessary that this order should be rejected." [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Like our Federal President, we wish NEOS a solution that ensures that, beyond the individual case, uniform, fair and objective standards are applied for the recognition of honorary marks. In our application, we adopt regulations that are already partly already in national laws for national landmarks, for example in Salzburg and Tyrol, and introduce them at the federal level for three honorary marks. In practice, regulations at national level work very well. We would also keep the regulation very clearly in the law for posthumous application, so that there is also transparency in enforcement. This new inventory of withdrawals is, of course, not intended to be used inflationaryly, but only for extreme cases such as those described. The posthumous recognition should also be made possible and in any case scientifically accompanied by historians. I am pleased that ÖVP has already expressed sympathy for the request; a Christmas miracle that Mr Gerstl has once committed to me, namely in the Committee on the Interior on the subject. Personally, I would have wanted another Christmas miracle, but it is better than nothing, even for this country. I hope that the approval of the ÖVP will also be held in the Constitutional Committee, and wish you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as colleagues Gerstl with this kind of relaxing and beautiful Christmas holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51588	Mrs Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51609	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Krisper! Distinguished of the Republic’s Merit Austria is one of the most important state awards, and they are in favour of highlighting and awarding people for their services in Austria. I am perfectly of your opinion: If later facts come to light, which represent a reason for censure, then one should live up to them. Let me give you another example, an example from my constituency, a sustainable example: The former NS doctor Heinrich Gross, who later worked at the Steinhof, was an NS euthanasia doctor. He was also responsible for the murder of 757 children at the mirror grounds – this monument stands for it with 757 lights. [[The speaker holds a poster on which the monument Am Spiegelgrund is depicted, up to the height.]] It was the JVP – I would particularly like to highlight Nico Marchetinoch – that took care of this monument 20 years ago with a 24-hour guard. Heinrich Gross was covered by the help of SPÖ from 1951 to the 1980s, and he was spared. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] It was not until the end of the 1990s that a new procedure arose, and then the approval of an honorary mark was initiated, which Mrs Firnberg gave him. This decision was passed through the Council of Ministers and had almost gained legal power, but Heinrich Gross died in advance, which is why this refusal could no longer gain any legal force. For exactly such cases, I think it is necessary that we create a new legal basis, because Heinrich Gross does not deserve to bear an honorary mark of the Republic, I think we all agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51665	Mrs Blimlinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51688	Mr President. High house! As has already been said, honorary signs serve to make the Republic famous for its extremely great achievements. The case of Gross – They mentioned it – it's a bit different historically, because he already received the Cross of Honor in 1975. This was legal, and that is why the law on the award of the Honorary Cross of § 8a – the so-called Lex Heinrich Gross – was created in order to deny it to him. When it comes to the issue of the recognition of honorary marks, there is also the question of the recognition of honorary professorships, academic honorary titles, as well as acquired titles at the universities, if such behavior exists. Last but not least, this was a long debate at the University of Salzburg, which affected Konrad Lorenz, who received the Nobel Prize – but one has nevertheless made a denial procedure. I also believe that this is necessary, although I may say on the spot my personal opinion: I believe that people who are dead and who are no longer subject can't be recognized. It has a historical-moral meaning, of course, if one acknowledges it, but basically it is also a philosophical question, whether a person who no longer exists, when there is no longer a subject, can be recognized something. It is also about the historical situation, why this was given, and in the case of Heinrich Gross, it was particularly clear, because he has now become one of the most employed court judges, who has ultimately acted in exactly that tradition of euthanasia, about social democracy – I could now also mention examples from the ÖVP, but now we are staying there. There is the famous example of Mr Zawrel, who was treated by Gross during the Nazi period and was then examined. I think that we should decide, even if one may have a different position, and for all the honors that the League grants, we should find a uniform arrangement. This can also be a system concerning a certain level of punishment. I believe that we should really consider something good, for all the honors that the Republic forgives. Richard Wadani also had an honorary mark, namely that for merits for the liberation of Austria, and that is why he should be named after him. - Lovely Christmas!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51732	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - No, I don't. The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the submissions of the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[22:43:18]] 73. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Hannes Amesbauer, BA, colleagues on transparency in criminal offences against the executive (555 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51768	We're going to 73. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51797	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, a sentence in the direction of Deputies Blimlinger: If you are so concerned that you change these barracks, I suggest you just make a request here in Parliament, and I am convinced that if he is well argued, we will find a majority here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Why Shame You want to make a request here? Or would you rather ask the question in the direction of ÖVP? To repeat and mention this in every speech is not the big throw, very valued Mrs Blimlinger. Let us vote on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberals is a completely different subject. It is about how and whether to document crimes committed against executive officers, against police officers. We fully support this proposal because there should be a documentation in the safety report. If you know the safety report, which is issued annually, and the scope of the safety report, you know that this is just a small supplement. However, it would be transparent and comprehensible to know how the crimes against police officers look. I say quite explicitly: I already have a bit of a problem with the explanatory text, Mr Amesbauer. I have already said that in committee, of course, it is very provocative once again. However, the motion for a resolution itself finds our support and we therefore support this motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, this also gives me the opportunity to talk in principle about culture in the Committee on the Interior. Mr Mahrer put it a little bit on me. I very much appreciate cooperation in Parliament, and we have seen how it can work when we amend the Security Police Act. Unfortunately, this is only one exception, because in the Committee on the Interior, too, we are experiencing what we experience in all the other committees: that is being postponed, postponed, postponed, repeatedly delayed, even on important issues on which we should join together, sit together and find a solution. I take, as an example, the request for more parliamentary control when it comes to the committees on the intelligence services. There is a very concrete proposal from the opposition, and I think it is worth it for us to sit down, discuss it and take it as a basis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I'm going a little further now. If you talk about cooperation here in the house, then it is not a good culture and not a good approach, Minister of the Interior, if you use an amendment that you send here overnight in the house – I do not know what you can do about it. Green and Turquoise - try to send the police to check the living rooms. This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] There you can shake your head in the ranks of the ÖVP, because that was incredible. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yesterday, when the counterwind against this crazy project arose, the Interior Ministers and the ÖVP row back and hang the whole package around the Greens. You're both responsible for this nonsense! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] So yes: Cooperation very, very much – very much! – but then there must be an end to the fact that you produce such stories as you did yesterday with this request; then it must also be an end to simply delaying, wiping out of the table and rubbing out requests of the opposition without a big discussion; then this cooperation must look completely different. Finally, I will come to a very different subject and allow myself, after two days of plenary sessions in Parliament, to go to the next item on the agenda very briefly with two sentences, which concerns the re-occupying of the Federal Parliamentary Committee. I would like to take the opportunity to thank our Member, who, after many, many years, has left this Commission, on behalf of our group. That's Otto Pendl. – Dear Otto, a warm thank you from this place. Thank you for your long-standing activity! [[General condolences.]] He will succeed Robert Laimer, and I am convinced that Robert Laimer, with equal appreciation and conscience, will represent the concerns of the soldiers. Thank you very much. A nice evening! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51910	Mr Tashner has spoken on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51934	Mr President. High house! Mr Einwallner said that it was not legitimate for Parliament to apply a Ceterum Censeo. I can say: This is an old parliamentary tradition. Since Cato the elder was always ceterum censeo said, and it was actually carried out sometime.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51969	Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e51990	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This item on the agenda is about transparency in criminal offences against the executive. Austria has a working criminal statistics, it shows us all assaults on police officers in the service. In the year that's up to 1,000, and every assault, every injury is one, one too much. These are included in the criminal statistics and are then prepared and streamlined into the further development of training and our security system. But perhaps it's time today to thank our police officers once. We feel it especially at this time when we have to take a very strong influence on security, that we are well accompanied, especially in this cowardly attack in Vienna, but also in the Corona pandemic. The police continue to do excellent work and ensure security in our daily lives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I took a picture of myself and, after the committee meeting, spoke personally to police officers about how they were doing with these statistics. A wish was expressed: We do not need any additional statistics. Instead, we should use the existing statistics and develop them further. We don't need one. More bureaucracy, we need an improvement in training and equipment. We have recently discussed the budget, and I am very grateful, Minister of the State, for the fact that the new budget provides for a record for the internal sector. So we invest in safety and training, security equipment is purchased, bodycams are further upgraded. So, in total, we can say: The system works, we will improve a lot. There's been a single wish from the police I interviewed: If there are criminal proceedings against police officers in justice, they should be carried out more quickly. I took it from these conversations. The criminal statistics in Austria work, I believe, they can be found. One can improve something every day, it is also done, but we should find the result. We no longer need bureaucracy, but we need efficiency and improvements in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52038	On business management, Mr Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52065	Mr President. Mr. Tashner, on 17 May. Once it was not able to formulate a real actual correction, I would ask you to withdraw his contribution from the speaking time of the ÖVP. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52089	Can I understand this as an application? I should then vote on this one. Mr Amesbauer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52118	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, I would like to thank Mr Einwallner, who said that the Socialist Group agrees with the motion for a resolution. Although one may not agree to the explanatory statement in individual terms, it is ultimately about the text of the application to be adopted. I would also like to make a brief comment on what you said about dealing with the opposition and its requests in the Committee on the Interior. It is true that cooperation is constantly being encouraged and offered, but now three political groups, namely the Social Democrats, the NEOS and the Liberals, have made a joint request. This is not a call to the Federal Government, but a truly legitimately well thought out request. We are three parties that represent very different positions in security matters in particular, but we have found a common denominator to enhance parliamentary control, which is required, especially with regard to the BAT. I was very surprised by the reaction of Mr. Bürstmayr, who responded very objectively and constructively and called our request worthy of discussion – I really want to thank you for that. At the same time, however, I have been very disappointed by colleagues Mahrer: We had organised a press conference, the micros were barely turned off and the request was sent. You probably could not have fully studied him yet, and already you, or you, dear Karl Mahrer, have sent out an OTS message that was really bottom drawer. You referred to us as "unsafety spokespersons", who would stage some waschivaschi story and undermine security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] – Dear friends, I just praised the Greens, please listen a little! I didn't like this for our cooperation, and that's really below your own level, dear Karl. I hope that in the future we will be able to discuss the request properly once again when it is on the agenda. But now to the proposal that is currently being put forward, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Unfortunately, Mr Gahr did not understand something, because we do not apply for new statistics – you have said that there is already a statistics. We want the existing figures to be included in the safety report – which is unfortunately inaccurate – that the statistics that exist – which we want to repair too! I have made a request over the period 2018, 2019 and the first half of 2020. During this period, a total of 3,474 attacks were committed against police officers. In addition, 474 damage, such as attacks on police facilities, police cars, police inspections and so on. Also 1,822 slightly injured and 125 severely injured police officers were registered. It is striking that the Styria and Vorarlberg - – – The speaking time is not over yet, Mr. Cot! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] By the way, I still have 8 minutes, to your suffering, I can also take advantage of it. 125 very badly injured police officers, where two federal states, the Styria and Vorarlberg, are not recorded because there are no corresponding statistics there. We have the problem that these statistics are not uniformly conducted. For example, there is also the problem that in Upper Austria there are quarterly statistics, in Lower Austria an annual statistics - - – So the colleague Stögmüller really motivates me to take advantage of the speaking time until the last second! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] I already think of something to please you here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Stögmüller: Tell us more from the Subcommittee!]] – I wasn’t there, I can’t say anything because I was K1-person unjustly because of your brilliant tests! [[Abg. Stögmüller: Oh that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Black and Green Federal Government has reintroduced its own “complainant and investigating body in the event of abuse” against police officers, which is not necessary from our point of view. So this is a job in which the police can be deunified, in which the police are attacked, with which a one-sided police bashing can be operated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] We now want the opposite: We want to make the attacks on the police transparent by means of a uniform, comprehensible and well-fed statistics. We want to include this in the safety report, and then we want to draw the necessary consequences to address these shortcomings. As I said, I still have a little bit of a speech time and I could use it now to operate a little bit of Nehammer-Bashing. But the Minister and you all know that I am a constructive and object-oriented politician, so I will, of course, refrain from doing so and not do it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as lively cheerfulness and applause with the ÖVP]] However, I also ask you and your group to end the unilateral police bashing here and instead to ensure more security for the police officers. Finally, one thing, ladies and gentlemen, which my colleague Mr Einwallner has also mentioned. I would like to write to you in the main book: [[towards ÖVP]] In a night-and-nebulous action, they have pretended to abuse the police officers to sniff unspoiled citizens into the bedroom – due to any corona that may not be observed. I would ask you to finally take the fight against the virus seriously and not confuse it with a fight against the population, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's been a taboo break, and this one didn't just happen to you. That wasn't a Lappsus, it wasn't a mistake, it wasn't overlooked – you've written that very consciously! Only the united protest of the opposition is due to the fact that this unheard-of taboo – once in the Second Republic – has not been implemented. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you see: Opposition works! To the ladies and gentlemen of the Government: Be a little bit better, that would be the highest time!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52225	Mr Reimon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52247	Mr President. Minister! Of course, we will not agree to the request. As all previous speakers have said: All the data to be written in the report is available. They are publicly accessible, everyone can get them. We did and did this as an opposition party. It is not at all obvious that the liberals now want to put this work around the police and create more bureaucracy. Please do your own work! We are protecting ourselves from the police and will reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52280	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[23:00:43]] Vote on agenda items 70 to 73
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52304	We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution – may I ask for attention? – Reports of the Committee on Internal Affairs, which I make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we get to the voting process, I can ask the political groups if we can vote. - Thank you, we can vote. Agenda item 70: Draft federal law which amends the citizenship law, the local law and residence law, the foreign police law, the BFA Procedural Act and the Asylum Act, together with the title and entry into 552 of the Supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is unanimous. What is the third reading of voting behaviour? – Also unanimously. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 71: Draft Federal Act amending the Security Police Act in 553 of the Supplements. Mr Mahrer, Mr Schatz, Mr Bürstmayr, Mr Krisper, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. I must first vote on the amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall come to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Mahrer, Mr Schatz, Mr Bürstmayr, Mr Krisper, Mr President, on points 2 and 4 to 6. Who is for this, I ask him for a positive sign. – That is why it is adopted unanimously. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. That is why we shall come to the third reading. Whoever gives him the approval at third reading, I ask for a sign. – This was unanimously adopted at third reading. Agenda item 72: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 554 of the Supplements. Whoever does this, I may ask him to make this known with a sign. – Adopted unanimously. I accept the proposal 76/A and 76/A to the Constitutional Committee. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 73: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 555 of the Supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, this request is therefore accepted. [[23:03:18]] 74. Point Report of the main committee on the reimbursement of an overall proposal for the election of the Chairmans of the Federal Parliamentary Commission in accordance with § 4 para. 9 of the 2001 Wehrgesetz (606 a.k.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52430	We come to Agenda item 74. There's no word for that. We shall come to the vote. Since it was possible earlier: Since there is only one election proposal, I suggest in the sense of § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure to vote by standing up and sitting. Is there any objection to this form of vote? - That's not the case. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who have the floor of the main committee's request in 606 of the supplements, according to which the Members of the National Council have power. Friedrich Ofenauer, Robert Laimerso as well as Dr. Reinhard Eugen Böschzu Chairman of the Federal Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In January 2021, six-year term of office began to be elected, giving their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:04:24]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52487	I would like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 4, 12 and 13, 21, 24 and 25, 30, 34 and 35, 37 to 39, 54, 61 to 64, 66 and 67 and 70 and 71 so that these parts of the Official Protocol are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I can start with this reading exercise: Agenda item 1: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 561 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 2: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 562 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 3: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 563 of the Supplements, shall be adopted in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 3/2.’ Agenda item 4: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 564 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for a Supplement 4/1.’ Agenda item 12: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 519 of the Supplements, shall be adopted, in the presence of the intended number of Members, taking into account the amendment Annex 12/2 in second and third readings, with the required two-thirds majority.’ Agenda item 13: ‘The amendment Annex 13/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law will be adopted in 527 of the second and third reading supplements in accordance with the Committee’s proposal.’ Agenda item 21: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 524 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 24: ‘The amendment Annex 24/1 is rejected [...]. The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 506 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment amendment Annex 24/4 in second [...] and [...] third reading [...].’ Agenda item 25: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 533 of the Supplements, taking into account the ‘amendment supplement 25/1 in second and third reading [...]’. Agenda item 30: ‘The draft law, in accordance with the proposal in 540 of the second reading, shall be adopted in separate vote [...] and in third reading [...].’ Agenda item 34: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request, in 538 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 35: ‘The conclusion of the State Treaty shall be, in accordance with the Committee’s request, in 539 of the Supplements within the meaning of the nature. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG [...] approved.’ Agenda item 37: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 570 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 38: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 571 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 39: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in 572 of the second and third reading supplements in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 54: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings of the Supplements in 597 in accordance with the Committee’. Agenda item 61: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 590 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 62: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 545 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 63: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third readings in 546 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 64: ‘The draft law will be adopted in the second and third readings in 518 of the Supplements to the Committee’. Agenda item 66: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 557 of the Supplements at second and third readings [...].’ Agenda item 67: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 558 of the second and third reading supplements.’ Agenda item 70: ‘The draft law is adopted in accordance with the proposal in 552 of the second and third reading supplements [...].’ Agenda item 71: ‘The draft law shall be adopted in the second and third reading in accordance with the Committee’s proposal in 553 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment proposal for an Supplement 71/1.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? An objection? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00071_d8e52682	I am entitled to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 1160/A(E) to 1191/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23.09 a.m. This is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
