ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4241	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, media representatives! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! I'm allowed to do the 14th. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. The current pictures and reports, but in particular the measures taken in Austria by the Federal Government and the national governments, the structures in other countries, on other continents, have made it clear that we have arrived in the crisis and that, in the sense of our countrymen, we have to do everything we can not only offer them but also give us answers. Therefore, I would like to thank you first for being able to meet in this hall in this form. All clubs have shown the willingness to continue to use this meeting place. The citizens who follow the meeting in front of the television will see that the hall is not fully occupied. Members are also present at the gallery and can also track the meeting via live stream in various rooms of the house. It is necessary to comply with the measures provided for by the departments for hygienic reasons – to keep aside, to wash hands – in the House too. We will also regularly disinfect all toilet facilities, as well as all the terminals and objects you attack: the microphone, also the speaker's desk. I would ask you to pay particular attention to these measures in your own sense. It is crucial for us to be a model. Only in the vote – tomorrow we will vote in a blocked way – will all Members be able to vote in their seats so that we can see the results of the vote correctly from the Bureau. I should like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that we can meet today in this form – it is extraordinary to do so on two days – for all the club members – both the National Council and the Federal Council – and for all club directors, for all the employees of the House, for their understanding that we have set the procedure in common. I thank you for following the call, the distance from security, the distance of respect. The official protocols of the 12th and 13ths. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: February 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. Deputies Kira Grünberg, Franz Hörl, Dr. Josef Moser, Andreas Ottenschlager, Ing. Reinhold Einwallner, Ing. Markus Vogl, Nurten Yılmaz, Dr. Susanne Principal, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Petra Steger, David Stögmüller, Mag. Nina Tomaselli, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, Dipl.-Ing. Karin, double farmer, Mag. Felix Eypeltauer, Fiona Fiedler, BEd, Mag. Gerald Loacker, Mag. Beate Meinl-Risinger, MES. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-03-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00014_d7e4356	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] The session will be broadcast live by ORF 2. I can announce that the Self-employed Application 396/A has been filed with regard to COVID-19. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5.06 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
