ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e768	I'm allowed 33. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. – I am pleased to welcome you again. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Deputies Kira Grünbergand Mag are reported as prevented. Christian Ragger. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e807	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I may point out that according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the communication was distributed in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1418	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the following agreement was reached: Each group has a total speaking time of 10 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time presented. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This seems to be unanimously adopted now. [[09:18:54]] Report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Article 33(2) of the Rules of Procedure 6 GOG-NR on the request of Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the establishment of an investigation committee pursuant to § 33 para. 1 GOG-NR Study of political responsibility in connection with alarming disinformation policy and abuse of power by the Black and Green Federal Government on Covid-19 (COVID19 Investigation Committee) (2/US / 192 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1468	Let's go into the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1495	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have probably heard countless times in recent days how unique this current situation is and how uniquely this crisis has changed our country. Granted, it has already been a very challenging situation and a situation in which one may not be able to do everything right; we are already aware of that. At the same time, there are a number of questions that are worth an investigation that should be looked at more closely. There are a few things that speak for a committee of inquiry, and we support this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. The EIA's attitude towards committee of inquiry is clear: As always, the ÖVP is afraid of control as the devil is the holy water, but now the former control party, the Greens, go a similar way and refuse to do so when it comes to information, when it comes to looking at exactly what has happened in the past weeks and months, that is very, very remarkable. It is remarkable that in the few months in which you are back in Parliament, you are able to prove twice that you are no longer the control party in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have succeeded: You have shown it when you tried to keep the Ibiza Investigation Committee as small as possible, and now, when it comes to clarifying what has happened in these last weeks and months, you refuse to do so again. There are already some questions you have to ask yourself. Today he has already been mentioned: the very controversial and then quickly abandoned Easter leave. As a result of such a decree, a subject we would like to look at more closely. This is interesting if you know and if some have become public, what has been revealed in the protocols of this crisis team, which experts have advised – in part, there have been very questionable ways of communicating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Kickl]] One question is how to act in Tyrol. In Tyrol, very, very massively, has shown that crisis management has anything but worked. Beyond the national borders, we have regained our reputation. You have to ask yourself the question: What networks are behind that? What role have the networks of the very often discussed Tyrolean eagle round played in this context? . All these questions, ladies and gentlemen, would be to clarify, clarify and look at. Ladies and gentlemen, also the story with Mr Hörl is part of the FPÖ's Committee of Inquiry's proposal. I say: But that's not the most important thing, I think, there are other knittings, because the clumsiness of Mr. Hörl is already almost "day press"-approachable: Once he wants to put a mountain summit in the air. and then he manages with very, very - how should I say? – Remarkable Whatsapp news that he is Austrian and almost worldwide in the media. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, control is one of the central tasks of this House, and it would be good if we were to provide information in this case too. As it looks, the request will not find a majority today. I can assure you, however, that we will not give in to this question. I think sooner or later it is important and necessary that we look at the crucial questions of the last weeks and months more closely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1574	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1596	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! What's this about? – It is about the possible establishment of an investigation committee. What do you want to investigate here? – Mr colleague has tried to outline it. I would like to address a very specific question. It is called for to “enlighten [...] whether the one of it” – meaning the Federal Government – was “companye,Shutdown” alternatively, or whether it could have been minimized with relief, in particular, economic collateral damage”. The applicant, Mr Kickl, is well-known – one has to repeat it at this point – has called for tough measures and a lockdown in mid-March, and now he is questioning this. [[Abg. Kickl: There you laughed!]] I give you the answer to why this decision was correct and why we can answer an essential question from this request right here and now. Yesterday, a simulation expert at TU Vienna clearly stated that the number of infected people would have quadrupled if the lockdown had taken place a week later. ==References== In March, the lockdown began in Austria to control the coronavirus pandemic. If one had responded seven days later, it would have happened in about quadruple of the positively tested cases. In addition, nearly 1,000 intensive beds would have been occupied, explained simulation expert Niki Popper from the Technical University. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Ah, that one again!]] There is also an answer to the question of proportionality that you always question – he has simulated the situation retrospectly –: If shops, schools and other facilities were opened much earlier, as you would then always have demanded in retrospect, the curve would have increased rapidly at that time. [[Abg. Belakovich: Like in Denmark!]] Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it is intended to present to the spectators what is already in place in accompanying control: on the one hand, a comprehensive reporting system by the government to the National Council, which was established, and on the other hand, a very essential element and control instrument by us in the Austrian Parliament, namely the Court of Auditors, which has announced that it has launched extensive audits. The Court of Auditors is an independent control body. The President has been elected for twelve years, can no longer be re-elected, so only the Enlightenment is required. We should look at this institution and these reports before we make a political assessment. [[Call the FPÖ:... in four years!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is only right for us to say: We do not need such an investigation committee at that time, and that is why we will reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1675	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1696	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the Freedom Party has decided to submit an application for the establishment of an investigative committee for the "examination of political responsibility in connection with fearsome disinformation policy and abuse of power by the Black and Green Federal Government on Covid-19". - We decided to do that. You have to read the title so that you know what it's all about, because the previous speaker has already proved: You don't stop with this constant fear and panic. You just need to see that even in the hall the masks are still worn, especially on the government bank – this is so ridiculous that you simply can't find any more words for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The purpose of this investigation committee is to clarify the devastating consequences of the federal government's corona measures – for families, for society, for the economy, for the rule of law. It is long overdue to deal with the process of the decision-making of the Federal Government, because we all remember the unpleasant quartet from German Chancellors, Vice Chancellors, Minister of Health and Interior, which occurred day after day in his press conferences and announced the total Coronainferno in the daily Crescendo. In turn, I quote only one of the apocalyptic and fear-influencing statements of German Chancellors in short: “We will soon have the situation in Austria that everyone knows anyone who died in Corona. And the less restrictive we act, the worse it gets, but above all, the longer it takes." – And then the talk of 100,000 dead. At this point, the population has not yet known how little reliable the figures of the Federal Government are that it should not be believed at all. With statements like this – to hundreds – the soil was prepared, the population was softly boiled and put into fear and panic, thus bringing about the acceptance of the shutdown. By increasing the number of tests, the increase in the infected curve had been very well managed, so one could get the confirmation of the measures. After the phase one, the imposition of these measures, one has been transferred to stage two, to the constant self- praise phase, accompanied of course also by the same media: All studies would prove that the measures are correct that they are absolutely correct otherwise the collapses will come. Please, the collapse is here now, the economic collapse and the social and legal collapse are there anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] And to talk about all the studies that would confirm this, which is exactly what the Examining Committee serves to do. With these studies, come with the basics! What were the foundations for the shutdown and for the measures? What about the alleged alternativelessness? What about proportionality? Have you checked each day whether the measures are proportionate? This must be done on a daily basis in such deep fundamental rights interventions that cause such consequences, and not every two weeks, as the Federal Government has always said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What was perhaps still proportionate for two weeks in mid-March, up to the beginning of April, was no longer proportionate. But it is obvious that one has not evaluated day after day, one has only been intoxicated day after day in the profit of power. Yes: “Keep in mind that everything is transitory”, that’s a quote from Socrates. You proved yesterday after the quote from Klubobmann Kickl that you don't understand Socrates much. Philosophy and mathematics are also very closely related, as the Socrates student Platon proved. Remember, it's all transitory! It is your gain in power, the decree authority, Corona – everything is passing, and it's actually over. You have to let go now. The Minister of Health is putting out reports every day, accompanying the plenary session: The virus is still among us, it's not over yet! – Yes, it is still among us, there are many, many diseases among us, infectious, non-infectious. Life is sometimes life-threatening, we all have no guarantee of a healthy life up to old age. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, it is important not to put older people and children in fear and panic, lock the elderly away, isolate them, and put the children out torturing in schools every day. It's a community! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you see, you always only react to great pressure; in fact, you should be glad if you can already do relaxations every day. But nothing goes without pressure, and that in turn allows conclusions on your motives. There's a lot of research to be done. I can only tell you that there are already intensive discussions in your model country of Italy, as it came to the lockdown there. You'll have to face these too. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: Austria is a model!]] I assume that the request is still being rejected today, but the day of settlement is coming. If you want to convince yourself of the motives of the Federal Government and of the fact that this is actually only a matter of horror and no longer a matter of sensible measures, please read the rules for the weddings – a small tip.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1770	Mr Ralph Schallmeiner spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1797	For the actual correction: My predecessor, Mr Prince, said that the media in Austria, as it were, has accompanied the whole thing. In fact, I would like to correct: The media landscape in Austria is not the same, quoting Wikipedia “The link between politics and culture is a strategy that became central to the period of National Socialism.” [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] ‘From the 1930s, the word referred to the process of unifying the entire social and political life in the power conquest phase in the Nazi State.’ [[Abg. Hauser: This is embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not an actual correction!]] "The aim was to remove the pluralism in state and society, understood as a rupture by 1934, and to build a dictatorship with only one power center." Sorry, ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ, but the Austrian media landscape is not immediately connected with Weitem! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1879	Mr Blimlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e1916	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! Another word for the link: This was more true of your partyobmann predecessors, simply by buying everything and then evenly switching it – which we are immediately on the question of the committees, because the current committee, the Ibiza Committee, is dealing with precisely such issues. It is a little wonder when, in his speech yesterday, Member Kickl spoke several times about clarity, truth and transparency. If that were to break through in your party, the FPÖ, I think we would be very happy. But when you look at that: All the investigation committees in the last 15 years – and I'm counting them now: Eurofighter, corruption, hypo, once again Eurofighter, constitutional protection and anti-terrorism and now Ibiza – have always been in a very close relationship with the FPÖ. [[Call at the FPÖ: That's why it's time we examine the Greens once!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Tell you something about Glavischig and Novomatic!]] I think it is very interesting to ask for the setting up of an investigation committee for something that is based on media coverage. You don't trust the media either, why here? [[Call the FPÖ: Why don't you trust yourself?]] There is supposed to be a protocol or no protocol, as the media claim. You know very well that the request is already missing in formal terms, because, according to the Constitution, a committee of inquiry must be set up only after the completion of a matter. It's not an end date of the investigation period, and you know Corona's not over. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the last Bazille!]] If the honourable Member speaks of Schikanen, I do not understand: What would the Federal Government have, what do we have to do with it so that people can't go into the bathroom? They can do that from today. The weather is not after that. [[Abg. Amesbauer:..., that's not a shock?]] The Federal Government and us are concerned with the health of people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Bullshit!]] [[Abg. Worm makes several times the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] Since we all didn't know how it went, it was better to be careful than to have mass graves in New York. We have the number of intensive beds God must not be exhausted, and that is exactly the point. That is why we will not vote in favour of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2031	Mr Klubobmann Kickl referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2058	Mr President. Thank you for getting the floor at least now. I should have been able to do it before if you had done so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to take the opportunity to draw your attention to the fact that you are President of this House because you have to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are respected in this National Council. And it also includes that someone who goes out to the speaker's desk to make a real correction, then sticks to the rules of actual correction and cannot hold a lecture from Wikipedia without you withdraw the word. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not know what we have been sitting there for, Mr President. That must be said in this clarity. By the way, I would like to thank the colleague because it was very glaring to hear what equalisation means. And that's exactly what you should be very, very - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2091	What do you have to say about the Rules of Procedure, Mr Klubobmann? What is the Rules of Procedure debate? [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] If you sit in the glass house, don't throw stones, Mr. Klubobmann! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[The President gives the bell sign.]] For the Enlightenment: The statement to the honourable Member had already been made, and after her speech had ended, I immediately let you speak about business. [[Abg. Deimek: You are no longer in the Ministry of the Interior!]] Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2143	Let's see if that keeps it, or I'll keep it. [[The speaker is taking a picture of the speaker’s seat, on which German Chancellor Kurz and Federal Minister Schramböck can be seen with members of the so-called Tyrolean Adler Round.]] Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, I was particularly affected – affected by the German Government's dealings with the Corona crisis. There was a lot of confusion, uncertainty, fear, anger and ridicule that we have got right to feel. Miss decisions have been made, misconceptions that have cost people's lives that have cost the health of many people, have caused a social and economic crisis, and have caused Austria and particularly Tyrol a lot of ridicule, criticism and image damage. This cannot be indifferent to us, so it is important to keep this subject-matter wide. It is also important for me personally to look closely at the first hours of the decision and the reasons for the decision. Who were the experts of the first hour? Were the influential cable car, touristist? I wonder how fatal misconceptions could have happened. [[Abg. Hörl: Mrs Rendi-Wagner...!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: What about...?]] I hold here a poster in the camera, on which Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz and Minister of Economic Affairs Schramböck are depicted with members of the Tyrolean Adler Round. [[pointing to the photo described above]] For those who do not know what Tyrolean eagle round means: These are the most influential industrialists, entrepreneurs, who like to make demands on policy but are very generous. Members of this Tyrolean eagle round donated over 1 million euros to the ÖVP. I want to know: Were the infiltrators, were cable cars and tourists in the decision-making process of whisperers? [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Fireplaces.]] Were those experts of the first hour who advised the government, accident surgeons treating skiers, or were they virologists and virologists? – Exciting questions that are important. In this House today interesting statements have been made, which I can in part stress completely. It was said that the impression in the population is that people are not employed or promoted according to expertise, according to skills and knowledge, but according to party proximity and party membership – and that, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to stop that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dealing with guests, dealing with employees, dealing with the Austrian population cannot be accepted. I am no longer concerned with the mistakes that have happened, because mistakes happen, especially in such an unexpected crisis. I am disturbed by the crisis, and I want to be able to look at and analyse these sources of errors in order to avoid them in the future, because we know that a next crisis can come before us. What is happening at present must not happen again in this form. Did we really do everything right? Can you really call it that? Should we actually let grass grow on the matter? Was the way in which – I quote, Mr. Hörl – Tyrol “learned” – really true? Is it fair to turn all responsibility on the police officers to turn police officers off to the authorities? Where did responsible politics make mistakes? Where did she take the wrong expertise? – This approach needs to be looked at so that we can improve it for the future, and we stand for it as SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will therefore support this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. It is important for us to look closely at the incidents surrounding crisis management at the federal level without If and But. Political responsibility must be clarified and the necessary consequences drawn from it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2221	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2253	Mr President. High house! Of course, it is true that many decisions were to be made in this crisis, and of course it is so – and I think that is clear to everyone here – that in this situation mistakes can occur and that some decisions may not be so well considered. I am in favour of this request from the FPÖ, which wants to take account of these decisions, and there are a lot of things that we need to look at. The Easter Decree is mentioned, and it is also mentioned the basis of decision concerning this statement by the Federal Chancellor: Well, we want people to be scared when they're in contact with their grandparents. – If you look at these protocols, you can see that there are still many, many other questions, especially with the protocols from the Ministry of Health. It was the fourth meeting in which this statement, which has also become very large in the media, was interesting, especially if one also looks at the previous protocols, the first, the second and the third sessions, in which the mood was still quite, quite different, in which one has noticed that the experts are really discussing at expert level and that they are really about the content and the content basis, about the scientific foundations that form the basis. Then, first, Mr Radjaby is added to the third session and then to the fourth meeting, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and suddenly everything turns. Then we have the situation that the Federal Minister of Health announced – weeks ago! – that he will all disclose these protocols that he will reveal what is happening in the Ministry of Health. To date, none of these protocols have been disclosed and none of these protocols can be seen. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Typical Greens!]] The Greens have always called themselves the Transparency Party. [[Abg. Worm:... cover up!]] We only heard yesterday, the greens had big on posters: The suit would choose the Greens. – The proponent would now publish these protocols and not always announce things and then do nothing for weeks. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The same applies, of course, to the minutes from the Ministry of the Interior. It is precisely the minutes of the Ministry of the Interior that show that it was largely not a matter of looking at the crisis: What actually happens here exactly, how can we protect the health of the Austrians?, but that it was the opposite: How can we let ministers, how can we let the Minister of the Interior, how can we let the government stand well? – Also that belongs to research. That is exactly what I am in favour of. These are the points that are also illustrated in the FPÖ's proposal, but we experience new things every day, which unfortunately are not shown in them. Yesterday, we have experienced a highly unprofessional behaviour of the Federal Government in the budget, and this budget is a significant part of the entire corona crisis – so such things are to be investigated. We don't have the theme of Cofag in here: How does the Subcommittee look? What measures do we need to consider here in a committee of inquiry? We don't know what it looks like with the hardness fund. What exactly are the basics? – All of this is not in this request for the establishment of an investigation committee. We have not been aware of the hardness fund and about the resolution of the MMM hardening fund – in the last few days, a company of an ÖVP-near economic alliance, which receives all data from the resolution. – All these are things that are unfortunately not mentioned in this proposal. I am also sure that in the coming weeks and months, this unprofessional crisis management of the government will bring up quite a lot more things, and we all need to get them into a committee of inquiry so that we can really make sure that we can really ensure that transparency is and that we are better prepared in the next crises – which must be the goal of each committee of inquiry – better prepared, better prepared to cope with such crises even in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2315	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2336	Mr President. To Mr Schalmeiner, who has been listed here as a professional antifascist: I'd like to point out that you're always going out when you're right. If your coalition partner has a Member like Member of Parliament, Gerstl, who comes here and quotes Henry Ford – by the way, CDU members have already had to resign because of such action – then the professional antifascists are suddenly completely quietly and quietly hidden in the last row, ladies and gentlemen. That is why what you have done here today is simply a spectacle that was dishonest. It's just that you don't want control of the greens, because you're in the same way with all these scandals! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is the Green Minister for Health with the Regulation and Erlasschaos – there has never been anything like that in this Second Republic at all! – who is standing in front of the cameras and the population in his 300 press conferences says something different than he has in his regulations. – This is the first chaos, and you don’t want us to reveal it. They probably do not want to reveal in Tyrol either, because in Tyrol too, the Greens are very thick inside, together with Mr Landeshuptmann, with the Health Council, ladies and gentlemen. And that's exactly what it belongs to. It also belongs to revealed where the federal government has been on the road with the country of Tyrol on a common agenda. What did the covenant do? Where did the Minister of Health in Tyrol not look? Where did the Minister of the Interior in Tyrol not actually look? When we remember: The very first case of Corona in Austria was also in Tirol, Innsbruck. At that time it was traded because the district captain was acting there. As the police immediately stood in front of a hotel, according to the Minister of the Interior, no one was allowed out. We all know from the ORF, it didn't work out quite, but it was tried. Nothing happened in Ischgl. ==References== Austria learns from Iceland that 14 guests from five different hotels in Ischgl are infected. Where was the Interior Minister? Where has only one hotel been secured? Where was your Minister of Health? Where did the Minister of Health control his own regulations? We Was the Tiroler Landeshauptmann representative of the Greens? – No one acted, because there was something else about it. That didn't matter at the moment, because it was only important that the lifts continue to run that business in Tyrol continues, since at the time one had already predicted that Easter business would probably be more lost. That's what you're trying to protect. You want to protect a scandal here, and above all you need it from the ÖVP, because you are still hanging much, much deeper inside than the greens, who are in fact only slipped in as an attachment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Schalmeiner now believes he has to make you the wall, ladies and gentlemen. If Mr Ottenschlager comes out of here and says that we do not need an investigation committee, this should first look at the Court of Auditors: So I have to tell you, my colleague, if the Court of Auditors controls this, then we will have the minutes in five years' time, and then we will have to make an investigation committee? This is a classic up-the-long-bank disc, that's classic bubbling. So you don't want it, you don't want any information about it, because you know very well, everything went wrong, which could have gone wrong. While you and your Federal Government, your Federal Chancellor, your Minister of the Interior, the Austrians, and Austria have been exhorting each day with a raised index finger, there have obviously been some in this Republic that were able to judge it – and that was the case in Ischgl. On the other hand, you have considered: How can we even get the Austrians to follow all that we want? It is also important to examine this role in the Committee of Inquiry. This is about the fear parole, the fear of this Federal Chancellor from the first minute. That's what the Federal Chancellor did. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Vogl.]] I told him weeks ago, long before the protocols were even leaked, that he only works with fear. And it's going on: Mr Ottenschlager comes here and tells anything about any curves that would otherwise have ended. You're telling a story. But you have no proof of this story. – Yes, stop these curves, stop making people afraid! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is born in the head of the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor needs a curve so that he can tell the people that you will all die, your grandmothers will die, hundreds of thousands will die, everyone knows someone. [[Interlocutors Gabriela Schwarz and Deimek.]] This is born in the head of the Federal Chancellor and nowhere else. This is a contract work based on completely false figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] - I don't know why you're so upset. Voices You're going to the Investigation Committee if you're all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2418	The final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2433	If everything's all right, dear ÖVP, as you're going to explain, then it's not a problem: If we make an investigation committee, then you immediately have the alibi for the Federal Chancellor that he has done everything right.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2460	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2487	Mr President. High house! Yes, I believe that what has not been explained in detail in Wikipedia is the indirect federal administration, because the epidemic law is the responsibility of the Minister of Health, and he acts as if he did not do anything about what the Tyrolean authorities have done to implement his law in the middle federal administration. If they snore there, he'll have to tell them something they have to do. But his strength lies in the watch: Look, keep looking, look away, that's what happened, you should look at it in an investigation committee when it comes. In addition, as the Council of State in Black and Green Cooperation, he is used to sticking to where the ÖVP wants him. For example, he has delegated procurement operations to the Red Cross. There it cannot be controlled, there it cannot control the Court of Auditors, there it cannot control Parliament: We don't know how the money flows were, who might have been nicer with a supplier, a provider than with another. I know entrepreneurs who have offered and have not even received an answer from the Red Cross, although they themselves produce in China. Some things have gone wrong, and of course the responsibility lies quite clearly at the federal level. Once we have worked out what we need to investigate, we can use this committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2517	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2561	High house! – Yes, may I? [[Abg. Lightenness: The ottenschlager was already!]] [[Abg. Lighten: Please, please!]] – Thank you very, very, very dear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Maybe just a few points to clarify the argument: First, especially to the spectators: Investigation committees are planned to examine certain completed operations in the field of the execution of the federal government. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You know that we are still in the middle and that some measures are still necessary, even if you do not want to hear it, but that is fact. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Because I have previously argued that an essential control instrument in this House is adopting this matter, I may be able to quote Mr Hoyos from the NEOS, a member of the opposition: “I am glad that the Court of Auditors accepts the matter as Parliament’s supervisory body”. Further: “Even in times of crisis where every euro is needed, transparency and careful handling of tax money are more important than ever.” Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps just a sentence for yesterday’s discussion and because you complain about bureaucracy: [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Belakovich.]] It is precisely because of this that you need a corresponding documentation, which you always criticize in this way, that's why it also needs these laborious forms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] And now I come to the criticism of Tyrol, which you have now brought in: Tirol has already set up an independent Commission which will examine which operations have taken place under which circumstances and whether there have been mistakes there and there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Belakovich: There and there, there and there!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I should like to quote the President of the Court of Auditors for the audit that has been announced: It would like to examine ‘the hardness fund’, ‘but also other issues such as the importance of the availability and use of health data, the interaction between federal and national authorities and, in particular, the crisis resistance of care facilities. Many further tests will follow [...]. The aim of the tests is to achieve improvements for the future.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] – And that should be our common goal: that we learn from this crisis and that we can make it even better in the future in the sense of the health of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2685	Mr Hörl is speaking on an actual correction. [[Abg. Lightness: Well, then!]] Mr Hörl knows what an actual correction is. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2720	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the [[Abg. Lightenness: Now we hear the whispering of the horn!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Member Belakovich meant that no one would have acted in Tyrol – quite clearly it was not understood – and it would only have been about money and greed, so you said that in the direction. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What do you want...!]] I'm actually correcting: On Saturday, 7th, we had the first case in Ischgl. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] On Monday it was traded, on Monday the après-ski-locals in Ischgl were blocked for the rest of the season. On Wednesday at 5 p.m., the Landeshuptmann announced that the Ischgl ski area was locked for 14 days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Kickl: This presidency is a joke!]] On Thursday and Friday we ended the winter season, and although in no other ski resort except in Ischgl and St. Anton, neither in the Zillertal, nor in the Achental, nor in the Pitztal, in none of the ski resorts, a single coronafall was known. [[Abg. Loacker: So how can you only...?- Oh, my God!]] We have prevented the arrival of 150 000 guests, whose arrival was planned for Saturday and Sunday, by this courageous decision of the Head of State of the State, from travelling and accompanying another 100,000 guests who were in the country. [[Mr Belakovich and Mr Kickl]] [[Abg. Loacker: Mr President...!]] Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2843	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we enter the voting process, I can ask the clubs if they want a short break in the sitting. - Yes. I'm interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-05-29-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00033_d7e2887	I'll start the interrupted session again. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of his report 192 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. The agenda is exhausted. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 10.05 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. The agenda shall be in writing. This meeting is closed.
