ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10028	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open the 12th. The meeting of the National Council and welcome you very warmly. I welcome the guests in the gallery, the press and, above all, those who follow the meeting at home in front of the televisions. ==References====External links== Meeting of 22 and 23. January 2020 and the 11th. Meeting of 23. January 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. Deputies Gabriela Schwarz, Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmidand Nurten Yılmaz. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10067	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office made the following communication on representations of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: Minister Margarete Schramböck is Minister Mag. Klaudia Tanner, Minister Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. Karoline Edtstadler and Minister Elisabeth Köstinger by Minister Mag. Christine Aschbacher. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10125	A letter was received from the Federal Chancellor, according to which the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 29. On the basis of changes to the Federal Ministry's law on the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministers of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs appointed by their previous offices as follows: Vice chancellor Mag. Werner Koglerzum Federal Minister for Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport; Elisabeth Köstingerzur Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism; May. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. to the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs; Rudolf Anschober to the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection; Leonore Geessler, BAzur Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology; Mag. (FH) Christine Aschbacherzur Federal Minister for Labour, Family and Youth; and Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M.zur Federal Minister for Justice. Furthermore, after the removal of their previous functions, Mag. Ulrike Lunacekzur State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Art, Culture, Public Service and Sport as well as Dr. Magnus Brunner, LL.M. appointed State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology. I may announce that ORF 2 will transfer the meeting by 1 p.m., then it will be transferred to ORF III until 7.15 p.m. Then you can follow the session in the TV library. Before we get to the current hour, I may ask honourable Hofinger, who is today his 50. Birthday celebrates and of course you will all be invited to the buffet, congratulate you. Congratulations! [[General condolences.]] [[09:09:08]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10197	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Green deal in freight: Solve transit issues, relieve the population and the environment of congestion, noise and pollutants’ Mr Weratschnig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10224	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A Green Deal for freight transport, which solves transit issues, relieves the population: We have proposed this issue for today, because we are convinced that this requires an Austrian shoulder clasp, a shoulder clasp here in Parliament. We need a European transport change, we need a turnaround in the transport of goods. 30 years of transit resistance took their exit in Tyrol, which is explained in this beautiful publication by Professors Sickinger and Hussl. [[Abg. Worm: What have the Greens achieved, Mr. Colleague? What have the Greens achieved in Tyrol?]] [[an issue of the book “Transit-Saga. Keeping a high level of resistance to Europe’s “exploitation”]] [[Abg. Worm: 1 million trucks more!]] Wide-ranging sections of the population have fought for their future, at that time, citizens, Mr Worm, for their freedom of assembly, for their habitat, before joining the EU, with a whole new dynamic and legitimate scepticism towards the EU, knowing that free and free movement of goods can be a threat to regional economy and quality of life. [[Abg. Worm: I was there!]] The transit resistance and the citizen protest – only later supported by politics – showed the perversion of an internal market without eco-social barriers or with too few rules of play, which all adhere to in the interests of the general good. The latest reports on animal transport show us this perversion of the markets: Recklessness and disrespect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These horrendous conditions are European, national and regional, ladies and gentlemen. We should be ashamed of the next generations if animals are tortured to death and tormented on the victim altar of the single market until they land on our plates. [[Abg. Bösch: (in the direction of ÖVP)... government programme! You should be careful!]] In this way, this market is realized and organized, and we also need to oppose it as an Austrian Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] At this point I would like to thank Mr Rudi Anschober, who immediately adopted this issue and calls for a round table to clarify and vote on further urgent measures. [[Abg. Worm:... in Tyrol, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At this point I call on the government to take all possible measures for animal health. [[Abg. Worm: You're in government, colleague! You're in government!]] Yes, in Austria we are exemplary in many areas, but I still recognize many areas of action, how we can improve and strengthen ourselves at European level. Yes, we are in the government, and yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are also parliamentarians, and I expect Parliament to take a self-confidence in general – that is what has been said to you. [[Abg. Worm: In Tyrol too!]] [[Abg. Worm: We do!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Back to the burner: The harsh wind at the Brennersee when visiting the EU Commissioner was noticeable: icy mood and complete misunderstanding, inconceivable of a policy that ignored its own agreements. [[Abg. Hörl: The minister was there too!]] [[Abg. Hörl: The minister was there too!]] At this point I thank Mrs. Federal Minister Leonore Geessler that she organized a local eye-catching, was in Tyrol twice and looked at the situation on site. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] – Thank you, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: Then everything is all right!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: The current hour is over!]] The Commissioner's statements were a blow to the citizens concerned. To be honest, I felt moved back to the end of the eighties – desperate, angry, deceived, outraged. This is how the Tyroleans feel along the transit routes at the Brenner, on the Tauernroute, so people in other federal states, in which East-West transit plays a major role. However, the difference between the 1980s is that, now, state governments, parliamentarians and, I hope, the Austrian Parliament too will agree on many points across parties, which are to be done in order to end these transit duties. There are agreements, there is the 2011 White Paper, which states that transit traffic should be reduced by 30 percent. There was a summit in Berlin, which followed the ten-point programme of the states of Austria, Germany and Italy. There are confessions, there are processes such as the Zurich process, I-monitraf and many others, one clearly admits that this is a problem that we need to reduce, avoid and shift in the field of freight transport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] Nevertheless, the number of transit journeys on the Tyrolean side has increased to 2.5 million. Not to be forgotten are the other transit routes: the Tauernbahn, the routes in Upper Austria, the East-West transit in Burgenland and Lower Austria. [[Abg. Lightenness: The Styria is still there!]] Therefore: Every road project in every federal state – completely right – is to check whether we are not opening a new transit snow. [[Abg. Worm: What are we doing now, Hermann? What are we doing now?]] This is an essential point for all future projects. I do not want to imagine what situation we would have if NGOs such as the transit forum, such as the Arge Stop Transit, like the Cipra, did not put all these NGOs pressure on politics, increase the pressure – at the time like today – so that it – for example Tyrol – a night-trafficking ban, tonn limit, speed limits, a dense control network, a sectoral ban on vehicles of certain pollutant classes and for those who transport certain goods, weekend driving bans, driving bans on national and federal roads. [[Abg. Worm: What are you doing now, Hermann?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] All of these are important measures that have been taken, and a strong civil society has needed them. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] At this point, thank all officials and experts who have always focused on keeping all these measures before the Supreme Courts! Thank you also to all the political groups, including those in the House who have taken appropriate initiatives in the past. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] Nevertheless: The findings are clear, the increase in heavy traffic has reached an unbearable level that is no longer portable for the transit-ployed population. I would like to draw up two points and address what are the possibilities for which solutions are possible to improve the situation. Point one – this is illustrated by the example raised, the meeting with the Commissioner at the Brenner –: We continue to work intensively on an understanding of the sensitive Alpine region, an understanding that road freight transit is more heavy on the population than on rail freight! Concrete: Put a lot of money into a railway tunnel like the BBT and at the same time solve the trains on the road is counterproductive, which is an attack on the Austrian taxpayers. All the more so, the Commissioner's statements on this matter must be examined. Secondly, We are working intensively for cost-effectiveness in terms of rail and road, taking into account noise, dust and climate-damaging pollutants! In the example of a toll comparison, it becomes quite clear how important the corridor toll is on the burner. If we compare Gotthard and Brennerroute, we have the following cost situation: On the Gotthard route it costs 0.82 euros per kilometer, while on the Brennerroute it costs 0.36 euros per kilometer. Yes, what route will the European craftsman choose? – Quite clearly and clearly the route via the burner! Moreover, the approval due to the fuel, the diesel privilege, which we must also address quite openly here. [[Abg. Worm: Hermann, but now...!]] For one fifth of this allowance, the cheap fuel prices or the contractors are responsible – the fuel tourism tag; we will also talk about it today. Secondly, of course, the favourable tolls are responsible, namely, four-fifths. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need an Austrian-wide shoulder closure, but not against the EU, but for a European transport turnaround, for a common green deal, for rapid emergency response if necessary. It needs an Austrian shoulder closure, and for this, an Austrian federal government needs weight. I am convinced that, with joint decisions here in Parliament, we will do what many have not done in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10534	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10549	I see clearly here the Chancellor, the Federal Government in charge of implementing all those points promised in Tyrol accordingly. [[Abg. Worm: Very lukewarm speech! Very lukewarm speech of the Greens!]] [[Abg. Worm: eight years...! Eight years of black-green in Tyrol!]] We'll be the partners, we'll try the best. In this sense: Live Parliamentaryism! It takes a strong Parliament to initiate this turnaround. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10600	I can very warmly welcome the students of the HTL Hallein with us. Welcome to the Austrian Parliament! [[General condolences.]] Minister Geessler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10635	Mr President. High house! Values Visitors here in the hall – dear HTL Hallein – and also at home in front of the screens! I think the last few weeks and months have once again shown why the advance of the ecologicalisation of our transport systems, especially in the field of freight transport, is not only meaningful, but simply necessary. [[Abg. Loacker:... Vorarlberg!]] I feel the need for debate here in the House, in this area, too, and I think the subject of this current hour is well chosen today. The urgent need for a short-term political solution has been demonstrated by Commissioner Vălean's visit to Tyrol. A Green Deal of the EU Commission must be a mandate for action – for Austria, but also for the Commission. I would therefore like to make it clear at the outset that the Federal Government – the entire federal government – fully supports the measures taken in Tyrol. I believe that this issue does not fit a sheet of paper between the Federal Government and the Government of Tyrol, which we have also communicated to the European Commission at various levels, which is a logical consequence of the current situation. Austria is extremely burdened as a transit country, and this has, in many places, really led to an unacceptable situation for people and the environment. We have a lot problem, we are actually at the edge of a collapse in a sensitive region like the Alps. The number has been mentioned: 2.5 million trucks at the Brenner, more than on all other Alpine crossings combined. It's not just about the burner, I have to be right for all those who have spoken in the meantime; we have to look at Upper Austria, we have to look at Carinthia, we also have to look into the Styria. Pressure is increasing, and this is not only a problem for human health, for ecosystems, for the climate balance, it is also a problem for the transport of goods. In view of this development, we are in danger of losing the necessary acceptance in the population for the transport of goods. This can also be seen from the reactions in Tyrol, which have occurred especially in connection with the visit of the Commissioner. In order not to get that far so that we do not lose acceptance, effective policy measures are needed quickly in the sense of a package solution for the burner. The Federal Government has become aware of this, at all levels, in the government programme and in the concrete actions, for which I will also be personally committed. We can build on the brenner the future of freight transport policy in Europe, if we all – cross-group, parliament and government – take a lead. We face major tasks: full energy into the immediate relocation of trucks to the rails, especially in sensitive areas, to the rolling country road, rapid advance of the solution for the corridor toll – one of the most pressing questions – to adapt the Munich–Verona route to the Swiss Gotthard Corridor. At EU level, there must again be movement with regard to the Road Costs Directive and the rapid decision of the Mobility Pact, which we negotiated under the Austrian Presidency. There is a need for courageous policy in relation to long-term rail development. In concrete terms on the Brenner, which is clear to all parties involved, it is not only about the rapid completion of the tunnel, which, as we know, can only develop its effect if the access lines and the terminals in Italy and Germany are completed in good time. We will not vote on all these solutions alone, this will only be possible together with our neighbouring countries, with the other EU Member States, with Switzerland and, of course, with the EU Commission. I am therefore opposed to a door-to-door policy. On this issue too, European solutions are bringing us forward. Of course, I continue the discussion with the EU Commissioner, but I will make it very clear that the role of the Commission in this area cannot be the role of a moderator. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The role of the Commission cannot be that of a moderator, but it has an active role to play. It is precisely because it considers that the Brenner Corridor is of European importance that the European Commission has an active role to play. Without the Commission, we will not continue in this area, and this will have to be clarified clearly. We have always made our contribution in Austria, including in the implementation of the ten-point plan of July 2019 agreed with Germany and Italy; we are on a good path from our side. In addition, I would like to inform you about the concrete activities that we have set up in recent weeks: Discussions with colleagues in Germany and Italy are on the way. An exchange with the EU Environment Commissioner has already been agreed. In this respect, I would like to remind you again: The Tyrolean measures do not result from a defence, but from the need to comply with EU directives that require Austria to tackle the problem of air pollutants right along the transit routes. With the ÖBB we continue the high-speed phase of the Rolling Landstraße. We are expanding the capacity of 250 000 trucks to 400 000 trucks per year in April and 450 000 trucks per year from 1.1.2021. Rolling land road is indeed a good way of moving freight transport to the rail on a large part of a large part of a large part of a large part of the road, especially for smaller logistics companies which often do not have sufficient resources to change the operation. We are working in the BMK with great energy in agreement with Germany on the implementation of the Road Costs Directive, even though Germany voted against in the Council in December. We see, however, that the Commission is also calling on Germany and Italy to agree on an agreement. For Austria – and we have always been very clear in this respect – an agreement has added value if there is a possibility of full charge of external costs, including with regard to CO2, and if there are improvements in issues of cross-financing and other points. In fact, there is a positive signal in relation to Corridor Toll. The coordinator of the Brenner Corridor platform Pat Cox has been selected for the 18th season. In March, a meeting of the chairmen of the working groups was invited to discuss a common approach. This is a positive signal at work after the highly disillusioned visit of the Commissioner in Tyrol. Of course – and this is another point that is important in this context – the Commission will have to play a significantly more active role in the harmonization of the rail area in particular in the field of freight transport. We have a clear need to rethink the opportunities of digitization, but it is also about the harmonization of the languages et cetera. In Austria – it has been mentioned – the Task Force is launching tax reform. Measures against truck heavy goods vehicles and tank tourism are at the top of the agenda. I can assure you: We hear the Tyrolean calls and we will certainly discuss the diesel privilege and the related topics tabooly with regard to the transit there. [[Call:40 million...]] The transport of goods is certainly one of the key topics for the future in the context of the Green Deal. Especially in times of the global climate crisis, it is more important than ever to find solutions to how goods can be transported as part of the economic cycle while at the same time reducing noise, traffic, air pollutants and CO2 emissions. We expect to see the forecasts, with a further increase in freight traffic by 30 percent by 2030 – 30 percent by 2030! – in particular on the road; So you see, the pressure of action is great. We must act there on the basis of the transport policy guidelines: to avoid, to shift, to improve, and, above all, to avoid the transport burden. I do not have to mention here in the House that spatial planning is a central issue in this context. The issue of cost-truth relating to rail and road is also one of the central issues that concern, among other things, the handling of unnecessary transports. Secondly, the shift to climate-friendly transport, such as rail and inland waterway transport, must be driven as far as possible. We have always done everything in the Ministry and in Austria to exploit the potential, the framework that we have, all of this in order to push forward this shift, also through funding possibilities. We will continue to do so in order to bring transport to the rail for most of the routes, with a good combination of the first and last mile on the road for the distribution in the area, in order to actually advance ecologisation. New resource and environmental technologies can also significantly improve the environmental balance of goods transport that is difficult to move or which cannot be avoided. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In Austria, we have the goal – and this goal, I believe – of significantly increasing the share of rail in freight transport of around 30 percent at the moment. It is time for us to bring about a real turnaround in this regard. The Federal Ministry of Climate Protection will address this in the Master Plan for Transport of Goods to find answers to these questions. I'm loading All of you are very cordial about participating in this master plan. I have also expressed this invitation to the representatives of interest, because the dialogue and cooperation with Parliament and with stakeholders, especially as regards this highly sensitive, extremely important for Austria, and also – and this is a fact – difficult topic for the future, is a matter of concern for me so that we can get on the move together and set sail for climate protection in the sense of the Green Deal, in the sense of climate protection here. In this sense, I thank you for the start of this current hour and for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10699	I would like to welcome the students of the Bundesrealgymnasium Sankt Johann im Pongau quite cordially. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I should like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is now 5 minutes. Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10732	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Dear Seers! It is actually an up-to-date topic that we are discussing here today, with a long history – Mr Weratschnig has already described it. We are dealing here with a profoundly European issue. You, Mrs Federal Minister, have also mentioned what measures we need. And right now is the right time to finally implement the solutions that are on the table. As you know, the President of the Commission has made the Green Deal the key theme of her term of office. However, we do not only need a Green Deal, but we also need a Brenner Deal in this context to bring life to these agreements. We have probably also worked very intensively on the subject of transit in the framework of the government programme, including some of the measures already mentioned, which are intended to help to achieve a discharge in Tyrol in particular. However, as you have already described, there are other affected regions in Austria, and we must find reliefs for these regions – of course also in line with the economy. Some have already been mentioned, such as the corridor toll, but intelligent truck management systems should also be implemented, for example – in turn, one of the agreements we have concluded with our neighbouring country Germany. Mrs Bundesminister, I think it is very good that you take a more diplomatic position in this regard, because you are the ones who will probably talk about it and negotiate with the Commissioner most often now and make pressure. I trust to express this somewhat more pointed: I believe that it was almost a scandal, as the Commissioner has done in Tyrol. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] I must say that I was in Brussels a few weeks earlier, and we actually had very, very good conversations with top officials of theirs, and we really had a different impression, namely, that the Commission knows very well that we have a massive problem and that we want to make a contribution not only to put the solutions on the table, but also to implement, like the corridor toll, but also the construction of the access lines for the Brenner base tunnel, which is necessary for the discharge. [[Abg. Worm:... already from the EPP, the Commissioner!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Brenner Base Tunnel is a European project that is financed by 40 percent from the European Union's resources and thus also from the means of taxation, for example the Germans. And in fact, they should also be interested in the fact that this really works, and therefore also their contribution to it, namely with the lanes, so that we really come to an attractive offer on the rails, in order to achieve this shift of traffic from road to rail, in order to create a really attractive offer. And that's what you should stand for. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have already mentioned it: That alone is not the solution. If we want to force the shift from road to rail, we must finally move forward to the single European railway area. In this context, there are many points that have been on the table for a long time and have been solved. We do not have a uniform operating language in the railway sector – we have it flying; on the street no person asks – we do not realize that a locust can theoretically drive from Vienna to Paris, because there is no uniform operating language. We have different regulations in the brake regulations, in the operating rules, in the data standards and so on and so on. What I want to say with it: We really need more Europe. We have to live up to the so-called fourth railway package, then we can really attract the rail and then we can also motivate the economy to change from road to rail. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] A final sentence on the events in Tyrol, - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10783	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10798	- as you have said regarding the Commissioner, it is too little to act as a moderator: I am quite right in this, but perhaps she should act as a mediator and point out to our neighbouring countries that they too must make a contribution to this European project, and not always point to the Tyrolean measures, -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10817	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10832	- but really say that it is a European project and it wants a common solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10859	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Stäger for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10881	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear schoolgirls! Dear student! Dear sisters! Mr President, we have not only someone who celebrates the fifties today, but also another birthday child: Cornelia Ecker. - Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10905	It was not known to me that we still have a second payer. Very good.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e10920	She's younger – I just wanted to say it. [[General hustle and bustle.]] On the topic of the current hour, traffic: I would like to thank the Greens for addressing freight transport. In the context of the debate on the government's presentation, I pointed out that the government programme is too inaccurate in terms of freight transport. Today we are trying to put a few things in the centre, and I think that is important and good in principle. But this also shows clearly that we have a lot to do in the field of freight transport. If it is called upon to make an shoulder closure regarding an entire position, regarding a green deal, I say to social democracy: We're on it! We are particularly interested in the field of freight transport, that we provide reasonable solutions. [[Consistency with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's about that we don't have a fairy tale hour here about what's beautiful and nice. ==References====External links== The budget of this Republic will be drawn up on the subject of freight transport. How much will you make available for it? – That will be the exciting question. I'm waiting for it, and I'm saying it very clearly: The SPÖ is always involved in making a reasonable transport policy and in moving traffic from road to rail. I bring examples – it's not about fairy tale hours, it's about concrete action –: I remember that the then Minister of Transport and later Chancellor Werner Faymann began to invest in the rails – against your coalition partner. [[Abg. Hafenecker: We already forgot that!]] [[towards Federal Minister Geessler]] It took a long time for this to become noticeable, but today we drive with a natural nature in 2 hours 22 minutes from Salzburg to Vienna, and so people have used the transport rail. At this time, we started discussing not only the Brenner base tunnel, but also concretely building it in the mountain, since initiatives are to be started. It was Doris Bures, who took responsibility for it and made a decision that goes far beyond their term of office. It is recognised that social democracy is always in favour of making changes and measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to clearly criticize what you have written in your government programme. You go here and reduce the toll for the Euro-6 trucks – in transit traffic, only Euro-6 trucks are on the way, the others you can do – you'll have to lower the toll, so you have to take another measure that is necessary then. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I will not let you, ladies and gentlemen, go through today, just talk about Tyrol. No, let's talk about Leonding. It is also about whether people have more congestion or not, whether they have noise or not. How do we deal with the expansion of the rail in Leonding when the expansion of the west railway is operated? How do we deal with questions relating to the construction of the wide-track railway in eastern Austria? Where will people be relieved of dust, noise and also congestion? These are the crucial questions. It is also about whether we will introduce the truck toll on all Austrian roads. There you, ladies and gentlemen, are also crucially required. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important for me to point out one thing and not focus the European excuse – I say it very clearly to you –: The Road Costs Directive of the European Union is a neoliberal system that does not work. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Ha!]] This neoliberal position must be changed.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11008	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11024	Therefore, I call the most important demand: If we insist that every product that is transported more than 500 kilometres in Europe must be delivered 80 percent of the transport performance on the rails, then we have won. I ask you to implement this in the European debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11051	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11072	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, the Green Deal: You have ordered a very, very nice subject from your group – and I think you have come back to coalition reality today, because the ÖVP has already turned you off your beautiful hour with the Coronavirus statement. As I said, Welcome to the coalition reality! I'm just giving you the tip: So the ÖVP is always, you need to adjust to it in the future. In fact, only the Greens have been dealt with in this government, perhaps you should also say that; the Blacks are laughing now, if you only pronounce it, but it is indeed so. I've been thinking: What did the Green Deal look like in the past? Where are there examples of a Green Deal? Where has something like that already happened? I then arrived at the situation in Tyrol relatively soon, even after a reference by Mr Hauser, where Mrs Landesratin Felipe has been responsible for transport policy for seven years. She really did an excellent job. Look, Mrs. Federal Minister, the Green Deal in Tyrolean means plus 25 percent more truck transit through Tyrol in the period 2013 to 2018. [[The speaker shows a table towards the Federal Minister of Transport, Geessler, on which it reads: “Green Deal” in Tyrolean: + 25% Truck Transit through Tyrol 2013-2018! That's 500,000 more trucks! Green LH-Stv. Ingrid Felipe responsible for traffic!"]] So it's a batch power! I hope you'll at least make it better. I'll put the table here once. [[placing the panel mentioned on the speaker's desk]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If something has happened in Tyrol – perhaps even so – then it never came from the Greens, but only from the Transit Forum Tyrol, which you have always been very happy with. The fact is that in Tirol Fritz Gurgiser makes transit policy, with the Greens there has not been much to be noticed so far. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One, Mrs. Federal Minister, you have recognized: This is the problem in Tyrol that revolves around the burner. But you also have to put on different things. When I hear that it is going on in South Tyrol and that it is there – if we are already dealing with deals – that the South Tyrol communities receive 350 million euros each year from the Autostrade as compensation for transit traffic, then it is quite clear that there is no one interested in introducing alternative transit routes and perhaps moving freight to the rails; that is, one must start here, especially when it comes to a pan-European package to a pan-European interest. Only then will the largest European tunnel project, namely the Brenner Base Tunnel, be useful. Mrs Bundesminister, you have to stop, in the south as well as in the north, in the Federal Republic of Germany, where there are no concrete plans for runways for this tunnel project to date. If we do not press the tube quickly if we are not able to demand clear implementation from our European neighbours, then I see black, then we will not solve the transit problem – you can turn forward and back there and turn as you would like. That is to say, the solution lies with the European Union and our neighbours. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As long as we were in the government, with Norbert Hofer as a transport minister, we have at least tried to do our homework to solve what we can solve in Austria. That was on the one hand - - – Well, of course! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is why the SPÖ, which for decades has not done anything in transport policy, shouts out again. [[Abg. Matznetter: You only have people the Asfinag millions...!]] We have launched the largest railway expansion project, we have put 14 billion euros in the expansion of the ÖBB. Why did that never happen to the SPÖ? That's the question. There are some former transport ministers here, perhaps we will find out today during the meeting of them. Of course, we have also put the transport billions on track, so to speak, only the break of the government by the ÖVP has come in between, that was also set up. Mrs Bundesminister, you did well to pursue this concept, because it was good and because it is an important link between rural and urban areas. We have therefore also used alternative drive concepts. We have therefore also invested money and courage in promoting innovation, promoting research and, of course, investing in alternative drive concepts. What you do – and this is interesting if you look through your government program – is: They solve everything with the punishment of drivers. You want to reduce the pace, you want to drive in towns 30, you want to drive on federal roads 80. They want to make the diesel more expensive, 5 euros more per tank filling. You took speed 140 back. And you punish the commuters who don't drive around by car for fun, but they have to come from the rural area to their workplace every day; these people also want to punish you. That's your kind of politics. Mrs Hebein also wants to ban 300 000 cars from Vienna. They also don't stand around for fun; people come here to work here to earn the money they pay the taxes. There you are absolutely on the wood road. Maybe the following: They say the shipment will increase. Of course, it will increase, because also the car-free green bobo in the 7th century. The district sometimes insists that he likes to drink a latte of Macchiato and that he can't somehow spell it; that is, he needs a coffee machine. [[Abg. Stögmüller: This is exactly the same speech the Hofer gave yesterday!]] Since he does not have a car and the load wheel is not available, he naturally orders it at Amazon. That's exactly where it's going. That's why people don't have cars anymore and can't cover their daily needs anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11153	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11169	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion. I am glad that your measures will not be taken until 2022, because by then the uprising of the Chamber of Commerce and the Industrial Union will be there and you will no longer be in the government. So it will look out at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11196	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Appreciated listeners of the school classes of the HTL Hallein and the HTL Sankt Johann, we had a first acquaintance on environmental issues yesterday! High house! Appreciate spectators in front of the screens! I would like to focus on the second topic: Good transport, transit, but also the population, the question of how we can relieve the population and the environment of noise and air pollutants, which are the consequences of the strong increase in transport. What does the development of freight transport really mean for the population? – It’s about health, it’s about living conditions, it’s about environmental conditions and, of course, climate protection, which is the same issue today. The further shift in freight transport to trucks and the increase in truck traffic in figures, for example, means increases for a federal country such as Salzburg over the last five years, which go well beyond economic development. Thus, there is for the first time a strong decoupling of economic growth and traffic growth at locations such as Wals on the A 1 motorway with plus 6 percent and Hallwang with plus 10 percent; on the A 10 towards the south – i.e. also a transit route – there is an increase in truck traffic of 13 percent and in the Lungau of legendary 19 percent. What this means for the people, I think, can be imagined by each of you here. That was the last five years; that is, the right lane has now become a rolling warehouse in Austria. What does that mean for the noise? . We have the noise action plans, environmental noise action plans, which show the large extent of the noise pollution already adopted. More than half of Salzburg's municipalities, including the city of Salzburg, are already so affected by noise overruns that we actually have more than 400 applications for noise protection walls, of which we can work up to ten to 20 per year. It is an enormous cost factor, a shift in the impact of emissions on the public and, in fact, on the public. In fact, all of us together pay for the environmental impact and the harmful effects on the health of the population due to the lack of cost-effectiveness in the transport of goods. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The noise pollution has another effect. Due to the heavily burdened local transits, the departure traffic becomes significant settlement areas uninhabitable. We have already run through empty spaces, caused by the noise pollution, the pollution associated with transport – dust, heavy traffic-induced vibrations – and the poor air quality; Spaces that then push for new land areas to be declared in the spatial order. This means weakening the local centres, moving living and working in areas outside the local centres – with all the associated effects – and, of course, more traffic. So it's a spiral we're in. 60 municipalities in the country of Salzburg are so affected by traffic noise that the thresholds for health protection have already been exceeded. In some communities, even up to 40 percent of the population are affected, in which almost half of the people suffer from health-damaging noise. The capacity constraints of the main routes mainly cause departure traffic. Salzburg also pulls the emergency brake and leaves a transit ban in Flachgau, of course with an impact on the neighbouring communities, the Federal State of Upper Austria and the adjacent Bavaria. This means that there is immediate resistance, so my appeal in this debate is: not by relocating the problem, but, of course, by reducing transport, by shifting to rail and, of course, by ensuring that it is cost-effective. We need the cost-effectiveness of transport, otherwise we will never be able to achieve a shift to the rails. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs Kühberger and Smolle.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: There has now been no one clap by the ÖVP!]] In fact, the air pollutants are to a large extent nitrogen dioxide, and it may sound harmless, nitrogen and dioxide, but in fact it is a lung-damaging gas that greatly reduces the immune forces of humans, leading to a weakness that leads to massive deterioration of health, especially in sensitive populations, especially children: vulnerability to asthma, more common lung diseases. These are health effects that we must no longer tolerate. That is, we need all the measures, it is not enough to start asking whether some measure is possible and whether it is necessary, but it is clear that it is necessary that it is urgent!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11262	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11277	This requires the support of all, and this means that the discussion is not at emotional level, but is really on a fact-based level, so that we can improve, an urgently needed improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11305	I can warmly welcome the students of the Bundesgymnasium from the Boerhaavegasse from Vienna. [[General condolences.]] Member of Parliament Michael Bernhard has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11338	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to take a step back in the debate. It's about the Green Deal and freight traffic. I have now been listening to my predecessors of the government groups and also to you, Mrs. Federal Minister, and I must confess that I have not heard a green deal out of it so much. I would like to look at the starting point – from a climate perspective. We face the situation in Austria that we feel the acceleration of climate change very clearly. That was predicted for a long time and it has also happened just as much, faster and clearer as it was foretold. We feel it in the agglomerations of course in summer, but also in the other seasons, we feel it right now in the ski resorts, in all tourist centers. We feel it in our nature, in the ecosystems and we feel it throughout the inner alpine space. As a result, we have an increase in extreme events of up to ten times over 20 years ago, with a significant negative impact on health, quality of life, ecosystems and the economy. The European Union and the President of the Commission are also talking about this situation when they talk about the Green Deal. If we just break this down to freight traffic, then we speak of 5 percent of all emissions and the other 95 percent. The Traffic in itself is already the problem child in Austria, you can say quite clearly. Since 1990, – and this is calculated in climate policy – we have an increase of 75 percent of CO2 emissions in the overall area of transport, while industry, for example, has falling emissions due to investment, stagnate or decreases emissions in many other areas. It is too short, however, if we talk only about transit and only about the transport of goods, because, of course, freight transport is in competition with other forms of mobility, not only in competition with rail. What is missing and what I have not heard sufficiently from the EIA or the Greens is the following: There are two very consistent answers that need to be given to finding correct solutions in climate policy and, more specifically, in transport. These are principles, and one is to make cost truth. We must give the emissions the price that the public, the next generations and the whole of Europe and, of course, the whole world community will pay. The second point is the following: What tools do we use? – These are the market mechanisms. Of course, it works in order policy. A large framework must be established, but appropriate market mechanisms are needed in order to be able to act. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But I didn't really realize all of this now. I didn't hear a solution. I have heard a strong problem, which is currently going wrong in Tyrol, which the Commissioner may have done wrong. I have heard a lot about the rail, which is actually very well developed in Austria and can be part of the problem solution. For example, I have not really heard anything about the role of the economy. I was at the climate conference last year. 90 percent of investments in climate policy, in climate action worldwide, are trained by the economy, through correct incentives from states and regions, but mainly from economic motivation. – They mainly speak of bans and plans. That's too little for a green deal. What is in particular missing – and this is a central element – is the keyword tax reform. The State controls by taxes. They are governed by inactivity on this issue. That's not responsible indeed. It needs – I said before – a price for CO2 emissions, but above all it needs a discharge from people in our country and hence also a discharge of the environment. We don't have time. They have committed themselves as a republic to be climate neutral by 2040. We support NEOS. However, this means saving 5 percent of all emissions per year. That would be the whole freight transport by the next year – the entire freight transport! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You are talking about that you want to be so far as you want to find the right answers in 2022. [[Abg. Loacker: The Greens... with the truck bike!]] A third point in this very concrete context is: The development of public transport is, of course, a priority. When we talk about mobility, we need to talk about the fact that it is attractive to use public transport, in the conurbation centres, but also outside.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11379	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11394	It's very important for us NEOS is: Public transport does not mean continuing to make money available to the ÖBB, it means investing wisely – for example in autonomous microbuses in micro-communities – and it means making many more measures. On the final point, Mr President: We NEOS are ready with good ideas if you really want to work on a green deal for Austria. For us, the quality of life and the opportunities are in the foreground, and we want them to grow in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11424	Member of the Pfurtscheller Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11446	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of the screens! We Tyroleans are very convinced Europeans. We know about the positive aspects since accession to the European Union, we know what the accession has brought us. Especially as a tourist and export country, it is a great advantage for us to live in a united Europe without borders, and because we have long borders with Germany and Italy, we traditionally maintain very good contacts with the Bavarian and German colleagues and, of course, also with the South Tyroleans and with the Italians. But the big, very bitter pill that we have had to swallow for years is the increasing transit traffic, especially the transit traffic caused by trucks going from north to south and from south to north. This bitter pill can and do not want to swallow in this form anymore. Our home, our people and our nature are now burdened by around two and a half million trucks per year over the burner. So you can imagine the increase in trucks a little: In 2015, it was 1.93 million, 2019, last year, it was 2.47 million. This means an increase of 500 000 trucks or 20 percent within five years, and that is, of course, noticeable and noticeable. You can't talk about that. The truck traffic via the burner alone is twice as strong as all truck traffic over the Swiss Alpine crossings! So there you can see that the relationship is simply anything but fair and balanced. This is no longer possible for us, and the population in the affected valleys is no longer willing to accept it. Tyrol has done everything and will do everything that is possible from the country to reduce truck traffic, and we are very happy and happy that the current government programme has included its own transit chapter, which fully reflects and supports the Tyrolean demands. For this I would like to thank, on behalf of all Tyroleans, the negotiators and negotiators, in particular, but of course with our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzund with you, Mrs. Minister Geessler. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Tyrol and the federal government last July – it has already been mentioned – agreed with Bavaria and Germany a ten-point plan to improve the situation in Tyrol until the opening of the Brenner Base Tunnel. This plan includes: Promote combined transport, including rolling land road, better linkage of freight terminals to Brennerstraße, intelligent truck management system, discharge of secondary transport networks in the area of Kiefersfelden–Kufstein, joint action in the revision of European directives, joint presentation of transport policy innovations, establishment of a new control and safeguard technology on the Munich line to Kufstein, exhaustion of all legal means to accelerate access, especially from the north, increasing capacity of rolling land road and setting up a cross-border working group between Germany and Austria. Since then, all homework has been done in Tyrol, which unfortunately cannot be said by Bavaria and Germany at all. Unfortunately, the Bavarian Minister of Transport is constantly complaining of any disadvantages that the Bavarian population is supposed to have to face, but it does not pay any attention to doing something that will finally continue to work on the agreed points. The same is true of us, unfortunately, with the European Commission. It has already been mentioned: Commissioner Vălean was in Tyrol about two weeks ago, and we have had to take care that she has no understanding of the needs of Tyrol.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11488	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11503	Yes, Mr President. That is why we hope that we will succeed in establishing a close-up with Germany and Italy so that the European Commission can move forward in the sense of the Green Deal, accept reason and finally implement the things that we need. We will do everything we can from our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11536	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11557	Mr National Council President! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen and dear spectators, at home and at the gallery! The expansive transit traffic in Tyrol is burdening people and the environment. The millions of trucks, which roll over the burner each year, clog our highways and all the side roads. The situation on the Brenner is acute when entire villages are literally suffocated in traffic. You know that you stay at home on the weekend, because it can be quite easy to get on the road when you sit in the car, on the way to the neighboring community hours in traffic jam, and you have to worry if the rescue, if you have to call it, can get through a traffic jam at all. I think we all agree that this situation cannot remain that way, and I think we also agree that all the measures that have to be taken to push back truck traffic must, of course, remain in line with the opinion of the EU Commissioner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] As I see it, we seem to agree that transport, which is currently taking place in Europe with environmentally harmful trucks, will take place on the environmentally friendly rail in the future, and I say that: Very good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But then we'll build up public traffic, and we'll build up the track at last! Let's straighten out this gap between train and truck! Then: While I can move the truck through the entire EU internal market, this is simply not possible on the rails. A company that wants to bring its goods from A to B, but simply has no station nearby, has no alternative at present. That means that it needs the alternatives, it needs the expansion and, of course, it also needs the harmonisation. The EU-wide rail networks are still not harmonised in terms of signaling, but also rail currents. [[Mr Hörl, Mr Krainer, Mr Stögmüller and Mr Schellhorn.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Who has the railway...?]] Who's gonna bring this something? – Austria in particular, because we know: Especially the transport of goods in Austria is 80 percent a cross-border transport of goods. Why do I say that? – Because it is now that an EU budget is being negotiated. Now there are the possibilities for this expansion and its financing. For days, the German Chancellor, who wants to play the strong man, has been talking about his veto against the EU budget in Austria. How would it be if we were to demand something instead of simply blocking it, namely these additional financial resources for the expansion of the rail sector in Europe? – That would be a good signal from Austria towards the EU Commission instead of pointless blockades! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ragger:... renegotiate...!]] If we are talking here in this current hour about transit traffic and the loads, we also need to talk about the loads of truck drivers who are exploited daily in order to make truck traffic so cheap at all. We hear truck drivers are on their way for 16 hours, don't take breaks, cook in the truck. Yes, there has been great progress at EU level, but we will – and it is important that we keep reminding ourselves of it again and again – solve these problems only if the same amount of money is paid within the EU for the same work in the same place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we cannot just put in place urgent measures at EU level to make the railway a real alternative, no, we can do this even today. A first step towards this would also be quickly and easily implemented, for example the energy tax on eco electricity in rail transport – and here we are talking about eco electricity produced by the ÖBB itself – to finally remove this expensive tax. We need to relieve the railway financially. Greenpeace has just filed a complaint, and we have already made a request on this subject, but that is where the agreement quickly ends. I'll get you together. If we lower the energy charge for the train, we will finally introduce a comprehensive truck toll! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are, moreover, two measures, one of which contributes to the financing of the other, and we are already at the point of financing. I come to the conclusion of my speech, but not at the end of this issue, because we, my dear government, and how seriously this issue is actually taken by you, will not measure the outrage here in the speeches, but the concrete figures in the budget. [[Abg. Hear: Thank God!]] We demand, like many climate protection organisations, an annual climate billion, of which at least half of the funds have to flow into public transport.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11657	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11673	Otherwise, it won't be possible. That's why: Let's finally make budgets, let's make the rail an alternative! – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11700	Mr Rauch has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11721	Mr President. Mrs. and Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I have to take a brief look at my previous speakers, first at Mrs. Herr – who is sitting there in the back: You should already know, if you are preparing for a speech that there is already a weekend ban in Austria – that is to say, a preliminary one. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To ÖVP, to Mrs Pfurtscheller: As a Tyrolean member of the ÖVP, you stand out here, thanking the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for a paper. Where is the solution? – There is no solution! There is no solution in this area! We have had a state government of ÖVP and Greens in Tyrol for 13 years. Where is the solution? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Where is the solution? [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: You believe it would be better with the FPÖ...!]] A transport councillor from the green sector, a head of state from the black sector - if you address the facts about the solutions, there are only silences or coffins. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: That's why the FPÖ in Tyrol decides all projects with...! So it can't be so wrong!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Everything has become worse among you!]] [[New call of the abg. Pfurtscheller.]] – You cry, you cry on, but there is still no solution for the Tyroleans. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: I don't cry! That's the truth now!]] The term Green Deal is an EU floss, which does not contribute to the solution in the final effect, but raises more problems. The ecologicalisation of freight transport would be a good approach: How can I transfer freight to the rails? How do I manage to achieve an ecologisation? – This requires a budget, and that has been made available by the previous government accordingly. There's nothing left to read from and hear from this. I am already looking forward to the budget debates that will take place in the next few days and weeks. In particular, when you go here and try to put more emphasis on rural areas, all that concerns traffic, the car, more and more – in times when rural areas are being thinned and there are more and more focal points in the cities, as there is more and more attraction – I wonder very slowly where Mrs. Bundesminister Köstinger is – who is not here today, but who is responsible for this area – in order to make a cry here once. There's nothing in the area at all. We're not doing anything in this area! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] In the final effect, we only do one, we try to centralize the power to drift towards a concentration towards ÖVP, but nothing, nothing to protect rural areas in the sense, and especially the population that is at home there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also have to go into the Chamber of Commerce, as Karlheinz Kopf is looking into his computer. He took part yesterday with the topic of short work for the touristists. The short work referred to was immediately contradicted by TUI, who said that it made no sense at all. But where is the Chamber of Commerce generally in the field of freight transport? What measures are there? What opinions are there in this area? - There's nothing to read about that at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] The position is that there is no position. Why? – Because at the end of the day you don’t want to annoy one or the other, and so there is simply the position that there is no position. So there's something I'd expect. What is crucial, above all, is what is still exciting, is that many of the economic chamberers then come to us and say that we have to do something against the government, that is, against the measures that are taking place. Accordingly, this representation of interest has to take a position at some point in time, so that there is also a possibility to request an opinion which the government so requests. An example I would like to bring is the history that took place on 31.1. at the Magna plant on Fridays for Future in Graz. Fridays for Future has blocked this plant for a total of half a day, with every hour of production failure costing 100 000 euros. It was blocked for four hours, a total of 10,000 people were affected, and throughout the day this measure, which then happened all around, affected 24 000 workers, and it took a day's run from early until midnight to pick up the production failure. These anti-economic measures, which have been taken in this area against a production plant in the automotive supply sector, are an insanity for me, especially because Magna has already pointed out and said that they also have a location south of Graz, 75 kilometres south, in Marburg, where they can do exactly this production. – I wonder: Where is the ÖVP as an economic party when it insults itself? [[Abg. Hear: Go, go, go!]] And where is the responsibility of the Greens in this area that they go and have their demonstrators under control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11885	Mr Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e11907	Mr President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen and spectators! Imagine a traffic jam of trucks on the A 1 from Linz to Salz- burg, 135 kilometers long, is about 6,850 trucks. 135 kilometers, that's the column of trucks that run out of the burner every day – a 135-mile-long truck-cool! 2.5 million trucks run out of the burner each year. For local people this is a hell of noise and air pollution. But it is not only harmful to the environment but also to our greenhouse gas balance. Since 1990, the greenhouse gas balance in road freight has increased to more than double – twice as many emissions! Austria cannot solve this problem alone, we have already heard it today. The Tyrolean Government is doing a great deal to tackle this problem, within the framework of its possibilities, but the possibilities – for example, as to what extent the toll may be, what the European neighbouring countries are doing – are limited. That is why we need a better, new European framework, and we also need good cooperation with our neighbouring countries, Switzerland, Germany and Italy. But we must be so honest and also admit that we have not all done our homework yet. I am therefore glad that we have adopted a number of measures in the government programme to shift freight from road to rail, for example. There will be more budget. There will also be a regional transport billion, an urban billion. – Mrs Herr, that is all planned. What will help people very quickly and concretely is how I believe we are also dealing with a problem that many people overlook, namely that the trucks drive too fast on average. They do not drive 80 km/h, but they usually drive around 90 km/h because the tolerance margins are too large in speed controls. That is what we are going to do, and that is what we agreed in the government programme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also agreed that we will fight decisively against the so-called tank tourism and truck traffic from abroad, as it stands in the government programme. More than a third of all weights take a detour and donate through our country because this is the cheaper route. Yes, that's about the toll, because it's about how strictly controlled it is, that's also about how strict the penalties are, for example, compared to Switzerland. But it is also about the tax advantage of diesel in Austria. Due to the Austrian diesel privilege, the fuel for trucks is so cheap that the route pays off through Austria because you can buy cheaply with us. All the fans know: With us in Austria there is cheap fabric. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The diesel privilege has led to diesel consumption tripled in Austria since 1990 – tripled! - it did. I'm of the opinion: Without the abolition of the diesel privilege, we will continue to remain the circulation of Europe on which the fishermen will cover themselves with cheap substance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] It is therefore my firm conviction that we must abolish diesel privilege, and I also advertise it to our coalition partner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am glad that transport policy is no longer in the hands of the FPÖ. For example, what you think of transit: You don't want to solve the problems, but you want to create a new transit tunnel and kind of drill a transit tunnel through East Tyrol and Carinthia. This only strengthens the problems instead of solving them, keyword: Alemagna. If you listen to what party chairman Hofer said yesterday, namely, that the exhaust gases from a diesel car are cleaner than the air that is sucked in by the engine, then you know about how serious the de- asked by the FPÖ to be led here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I thank you very much and am very pleased that we have an Environment Minister and Transport Minister who is doing the fact-based policy; this will also bring us forward. Finally, because you have referred to the birthdays, Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Chamber of Labour on the birthday from this point of view, namely the hundred. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12003	Mr Margreiter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12024	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators! I have the privilege of speaking as the last speaker in the debate on this current hour, and can therefore take a little account of it. This balance sheet is quite inconceivable: It is positive to note that there is broad consensus across all political groups in this House about the fact that we really have a massive problem in the area of transit traffic. It is also positive to note that solutions are on the table. Many solutions have already been formulated. I would like to add and underline this, because this is also the case in the government programme: We must come to the cost-effectiveness. The fact is that the transit problem in Tyrol is, to a good extent, also based on the fact that completely distorting conditions exist. For example, if we had more market mechanisms to operate, if we were to price ecological externalities, talk about a CO2 tax and immediately reduce the number of transits by about 300 000. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So that means: The solutions are on the table, across all political groups, and yet I have the impression: We're not going to do it. In this context, I would like to express my particular personal concern here: I live on the highway. I live in the Inntal in Tyrol on the A 12. That is why I think, although this has been mentioned several times today, that it is necessary to present once again what it means to pass 2.5 million transit trucks a year on the door or the door to the apartment. The number of 2.5 million transit trucks means that of 1. ==References== Every minute every day and night, December of each year, five trucks pass by. These 2.5 million trucks burn about 90 million liters of diesel on the journey from Kufstein to the Brenner in a year. 90 million liters of diesel correspond to the energy requirement of 40 000 flats. In doing so, pollutants are produced, all of us suffering from which our children suffer from respiratory diseases. You have to experience all of this. That's why my appeal is: Let's go! The government is required – this is what the government programme says, the findings are there. I always say, It is particularly negligent and is already heading toward willfulness if you recognize problems and know solutions and do nothing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Therefore, the urgent appeal: Government, come on! Do something, the support of Parliament is safe for you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12070	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I can also warmly welcome the members of the ÖVP from the municipality of Sankt Roman at the gallery. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I also welcome Ministers Nehammer, Anschober, Tanner and Aschbacher to the House. [[10:27:22]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12105	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocation, I can point out that the communication has been distributed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12401	I should also like to say that the Second Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12420	It is proposed that the debate on Agenda items 6 to 8 should be held below one. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12441	The following agreement was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference: There is a daily block time of 8.5 “Vienna hours”, according to which ÖVP 166, SPÖ 115, FPÖ 94, Green 85 and NEOS 68 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, 34 minutes each, the speaking time per debate for each five minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time presented. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12477	Before entering the agenda, I should like to say that Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has requested that the Equal Treatment Committee report on Amendment 117/A(E) be given a deadline until 17. In March 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. The short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of the debate. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:29:19]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection and the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Corona-Virus SARS-COV-2/COVID-19 and Action Plan”
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12515	We come to item 1 of the agenda. Following these declarations, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with this request, which is sufficiently supported. I can now give the floor to Mr Anschober. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12542	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Today, together with the Minister of the Interior, I would simply like to inform you about the situation in this epidemic that has been holding us in the world for two months, which is a major challenge for all health authorities, for all safety authorities and for the entire population, because it is about preventing a regional epidemic from becoming a global pandemic. That's our goal. This is what we are working on in an extremely good, close network – internationally and regionally here in Austria – in a very good cooperation between the authorities, both at government level and in individual federal states, all of which are affected in one way or another. All the experts in the world tell us that we are now entering the crucial phase, whether it comes to this pandemic or not. The next two to three weeks will make a decision on this. At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to tell you a little bit about how things stand around the world. There are currently 82 168 confirmed cases of illness – these are the figures of today’s early days – with around 79 000 diseases in China being the largest in the world. It is interesting, from my point of view, that there are two international messages, namely, a very high number of deaths – we now have to report more than 2,800 deaths worldwide – and at the same time the phenomenon that there are already 32,000 people who have recovered. This is the positive statement and perspective. That is, Corona is absolutely not a death sentence, is absolutely no judgment towards an absolutely serious disease situation. China has conducted an analysis of the course of this disease in the first 45,000 patients, and it has been shown that there is an absolutely mild disease in about 81 percent of the cases. But that does not mean that we take the subject to the light, quite the opposite; 2 800 deaths are warning enough. We have feared that Europe will also be affected. In times like this – with globalisation, with international trade relations, with an active travel activity that we all love, which we have become accustomed to and which is part of our lives – it was to be expected that this virus will also come to Europe. Since last weekend, the outbreaks that have occurred in Italy have arrived so well. There are now around 330 diseases in Italy – I just had the opportunity to talk to the Italian Minister of Health on Tuesday. The big problem in Italy is that although it is very offensive to deal with the fight against Corona – in a very broad Italian consensus, by the way – we do not know the so-called patient yet. That is, the actual source of the infection is unknown. We only know that in the case of one patient – that was the person who was the first person to be delivered to a clinic in Upper Italy with severe pneumonia – it was not perfect for the acute, rapid treatment situation. That was the past. In any case, we must insist that the number of corona cases in Europe as a whole will continue to increase in the coming weeks – that is to say, realistically – and that Austria will be increasingly affected as well. We have carried out 445 tests in Austria until this morning. At the moment, there are twelve people in quarantine. The situation, of course, first of all focuses on Innsbruck with the two specific cases of illness that we have known since Tuesday this week. It is very professional and well behaved there by the authorities. It will provide a wide range of information to the population, and it will realize exactly what our strategy is, namely where a disease occurs, to limit as quickly as possible – that is our only option that can really be successful. So there are two diseases so far; unfortunately, a few minutes ago I received a call from the Vienna Health City Council that there is also a case in Vienna that is confirmed. That was to be expected, that was to be feared. I am absolutely convinced, as I know from the health authorities in Vienna, that it will respond perfectly, that good action will be taken and that the strategy we have agreed and planned in Austria will be implemented consistently. On Tuesday this week we had a crisis conference held by the Ministers for Health of the European Union plus Switzerland plus Health Commissioner plus World Health Organisation and the European Health Authority ECDC in Rome, and we have taken a joint action that is in fact one of the same as what we in Austria realize. I would like to present this briefly, because I believe it is important that we carry it together. From my point of view, such a crisis situation is a situation in which we all have to stand together, not as a time for political little things, as for small conflicts, but as a matter of fact, in which we must try together to protect our people as best we can. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] In this situation in Europe and, of course, in Austria, we are very much relying on the information of citizens, first of all on the precautionary measures. Yes, it sometimes sounds a bit banal, but washing hands – real hand washing – is the best answer to this situation. Meanwhile, there is a lot of information about how this works – so act and do it several times a day! The second priority concerns travel. Of course, we are self-determined in our travel activity, but I think we should consider carefully whether it makes sense at the moment – I don't think – to go to the directly affected regions of Italy. That does not mean that you should avoid Italy, quite the contrary. However, there are very clearly defined areas, primarily in Lombardy, in which currently – after very consistent action by the Italian authorities – a total of 11 municipalities are blocked, where the outbreak was very active and very strong and partly still remains. – This is the second point, the travel activity. Third, the information offensive is that we want to inform citizens about what is happening in the case of symptoms. Unfortunately, the symptoms resemble – in the present situation it is difficult – a little the flu symptoms, i.e. fever, that is cough, but mainly dry cough; Respiratory is added – this is an important point for distinguishing flu symptoms. If symptoms don't go to the doctor, don't leave your own home, but call the hotline 1450, contact the authorities there to contact the medical staff! Then there is detailed advice on what to do, whether the situation in the person concerned should be taken seriously, whether there may be a suspicion. If there is a suspicion, then in Austria we consistently prefer five tests too much than too little, in all areas. As has already been said, the number has grown to 445. In the next step – quite, very important – if positive, our strategy throughout Europe and in Austria is the strategy of restricting, demarcating, on the one hand, as far as the person concerned is concerned, on the other hand, as far as the environment is concerned, in order to avoid spread as far as possible. The fourth point of our programme of action is that we are very much committed to international, European cooperation. We have an excellent European health control authority and, as I mean, a perfect information system – the Early Warning and Response System – which ensures that it is immediately reported to us when a trace, if any reference to Austria, appears when, for example, a affected patient in Italy is questioned, his anamnese is carried out and he is also asked what his travel activity was and what persons he had specific contact with. This can be done within a few minutes, and we can then follow this suspicion in concrete terms. The big fifth point, on which, as I believe, Mr Nehammer will be more intensively informed, is our joint deployment group – once said: the joint crisis staff – in which we actually vote on a daily basis around the clock and in which the federal states are also involved daily. As I said, the Minister of the Interior will certainly do this in detail. We are committed to a very close cooperation. Viruses do not have any limits: They are not impressed by the fact that you drop a border bar, but by the fact that viruses are impressed with the right measures of demarcation and ie-nem - – I thought that Mr Klubobmann was reacting to them. [[Abg. Kickl:... they can't be without carrier...!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well, yes...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Dear demarcation as a restriction of the country: Delimitation from the virus, that's the answer. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] We are therefore committed to intensive cooperation, we are focusing on a policy of matter, we are focusing on a policy of consistent action and we are relying on a policy of calmness. Let us stand together in this situation so that we can meet this challenge well together!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12617	Before I give the floor to the Federal Minister for the Interior, I can welcome the students of the HTL Ybbs to the High House. [[General condolences.]] The Minister of the Interior is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12647	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen here on the gallery and also at home in front of the televisions! As you know, the Coronavirus reached Austria a few days ago. It is important to draw a realistic picture, as the Minister of Health has just carried it out. I would like to confirm immediately: The cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health as well as with all other relevant departments works perfectly. It is important, even in its efficiency; this shows that you can act quickly and decisively – as the Minister of Health has done before. I am now allowed to give you an up-to-date picture of the situation which the staff has been working on this morning. There were more than 400 tests in Austria, until recently with two positive tests, now, as we have learned, there is a third positive test in Vienna. Here too, all measures are now immediately taken. While we are sitting here, the staff meet and discuss all necessary measures with Vienna, with the staff there – on the one hand from the police, but, of course, from the health service. There are currently 16 people in Austria under quarantine. This is an important measure to do everything – as the Minister of Health said – to prevent the virus from spreading faster. The police are also doing a valuable job because they are monitoring and supporting these measures. The same is true – and this is particularly important – of: If there is a case of illness, the police are carrying out the survey measures – where the person concerned has moved, with whom she has been in contact – in order to take rapid action in this case too. Again, the goal is to limit the virus to the best possible extent. What do we know about the previous cases? – Every case that we have now also dealt with in the staff is again a case from which we learn to be better in the next place. As you know, on Tuesday in Tyrol there was a public service with the police to explain the environment of the infected persons. It turned out that one of the infected worked in a hotel. As a result, the hotel was secured, no one could go in and out anymore. Why was that necessary? – The Minister of Health has just said that we should not use the situation for polemics. [[Abg. Kickl: I saw something else! Well, please, while he said that... Turn-door...!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] My dear opposition representatives, if you had searched closely, would know that the person concerned, who was seen on leaving the hotel, was controlled and released by the official, because the person concerned had no contact with other people in the hotel. I therefore ask you not to react with haema and ridicule in such a sensitive situation as this. [[Abg. Belakovich: Exactly! You have...!]] It is now appropriate to have confidence in the security authorities. Police officers were in use there, and with mockery, with laughter and laughter, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, is exactly the wrong answer in such a situation, because if we want to convey to the people the feeling that we are also able to meet a challenging situation for the Republic, for the health and safety of people, here in the House, too, we are able to meet a challenging situation for the Republic, for the health and safety of people, then it is better – also addressed to the SPÖ colleagues who have commented with home: [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] [[Abg. Kickl: Wait! Wait...!]] Just tell yourself – the staff is ready to do so at any time – before you react to the work of the doctors and the police at the place of work with mockery and humor! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belarusian: False! ... their work...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Now back to the case in Tyrol: Full safeguards were needed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] It was important that it was acted quickly that the environment had been analysed. A movement profile of the persons concerned was also drawn up, which shows exactly where they stayed on the day. As a result, the national deployment staff of Tyrol has also announced the information to the population, because it is also requested that, if there has been contact with the infected persons, contact the state warning centre in Tyrol quickly in order to explain any symptoms. Carinthia was a particularly dramatic case: A 56-year-old patient died. There was also the suspicion of a coronavirus infection. The police immediately carried out security measures in this apartment facility, first of all to explain: Is there a confirmed case – yes or no? When God was thanked for the result, the quarantine could also be lifted up the isolation of this building. At the same time, the family of the deceased patient, who is now probably going through difficult hours to express my participation. Now to the school in Vienna: As you know, there was the suspicion that a teacher might be infected. As a result, the school was secured until it could be clarified that thanks be to God in this case there is a negative testing on the corona virus. Why was the backup necessary? – You know, there was a discussion afterwards as to whether the measure was useful and correct. [[Abg. Belakovich: She was not necessary at all... pointless...!]] I would like to ask you the question: What would have happened if the patient had been infected? What is the task of the police and also the local doctors in such a case? – To explain quickly who she was in contact with, with whom she was in intensive contact, and then, according to a defined schedule, you can take the necessary steps until the isolation of the persons concerned. Why is that important? – In order to reduce the spread of the virus and at the same time to ensure safety for the persons concerned that they are not affected, in the best case they are healthy, so that there is also safety. The change in northern Italy, the increased spread of the disease there, has also led to massive measures in Italy itself. I am in close cooperation with the Italian Minister of the Interior, the staff is in close cooperation with the Italian security authorities. What's our goal? – The Minister of Health has carried it out: Our goal is to make the network tight to ensure security for the Republic, for people here. What does that mean? – That we are also able to implement cross-border warnings immediately. Where did this work out? – You know, there was evidence for a train from Italy towards Germany that persons infected with the corona virus may be on the train. It could quickly be clarified that this was not the case. The persons were tested and God was found to be a negative result. However, isolation measures were also introduced by stopping the train and not allowing the persons to leave until it was clear that there was no infection. Then the passengers could continue their journey safely. In all these measures, the question is always in the area: Is it appropriate and justified? – Yes, this is a question that the health authorities, the safety authorities, always have to ask themselves, because it is always about an intervention in fundamental and freedom rights. At the same time – in considering these issues and in keeping with care – it is necessary, as the Minister of Health has said, to take measures to find out: Is there an infection – yes or no? How quickly can I explain the environment? – All of this has been done. In all cases, including subsequent evaluations, the persons concerned – whether on the train or in the hotel, and whether they are in isolation for safety reasons, as long as the incubation period is not yet completed, in order to definitely establish that no infection is present – have been fully cooperative, the police, the doctors on the ground have supported as best as possible. What is our common goal is also known to those affected by it: It is important to explain quickly whether there is an infection; if so, can be quickly helped medically, and if not, there is also for those affected by disease isolation measures, then the certainty that they can safely return home. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for civil security in the Republic. How do the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior work together in such a situation? – The staff in the Ministry of the Interior will meet on a permanent basis – 24 hours a day, seven days a week, even now – with experts from the Ministry of Health, all other affected locations, such as the Ministry of Transport, as well as the Red Cross and the Austrian Samaritan League, in order to be quickly and closely coordinated, there should be a case for action again. If this is the case – as it is now in Vienna – there is a live circuit with all the federal states in which the staff communicate with each other, discuss the case precisely, and then, in the future, initiate all the necessary measures that one can achieve: to control the virus. To this end, we have supported the Ministry of Health with an additional call center and can now handle more than 1 100 calls from the staff. The aim is to ensure transparency and inform the concerned citizens for all measures taken by the Federal Government and the health authorities. Yes, we have the situation in Austria that people are very concerned. It is our responsibility as a policy to take these concerns seriously, to provide the right answers to them, but certainly not to increase the concerns unnecessaryly or even to spread panic. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In this context, it is important for me to point out to those who listen to us that there are two telephone numbers that are needed to be properly lifted if you are concerned. Are If you are directly affected by symptoms, please choose the phone number 1450! It is important to explain at home whether you are directly affected, and then, if you have symptoms, to request the family doctor or other health care services that come home to you, and not to do what the Minister of Health has warned of: to go out of the house and infect others. – 1450 is the number that will help you with advice and action if you feel symptoms yourself. If you have any other questions about Coronavirus, please choose the number 0800 555 621! There you get all the information about the topic of Coronavirus that can be helpful to you at home. As I said, more than 1 100 calls can be handled on this number alone in the call centre of the staff. It is also important in such a challenging situation that testing can be carried out quickly. There are always suspicions, and at the same time it is both the need of the health authorities, the safety authorities and the persons concerned, rapid certainty – is there a confirmation: yes or no? - to get. That means: The staff has instructed all federal states to connect with the respective laboratories so that a 24-hour operation is ensured to carry out these tests quickly. For example, the laboratory of the Ages is already ready for use in this case. The adoption of the Ministry of Health, which sets the standard as to how to proceed in such situations – that is, federally – is about to be completed in these hours and will soon be going to the health authorities. The police have already compiled so-called competence teams in each national police department two weeks ago, which can quickly come to the site of operation, should actually have a coronary infection there. But what is also very important: Every citizen, any citizen, anyone living in Austria, can make a contribution to curbing the virus and not spreading it. So what can I do? – As the Minister for Health has already suggested: It is very important to put in place the hygiene measures. It's not difficult for any of us to do that. At the same time, however, it is important to act responsibly. What do I mean by that? – If you find yourself having symptoms of illness, please call the doctor and do not start to move across society, which would increase the risk of infection! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The office in the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of the Director General for Public Security General Lang – a very experienced man in dealing with special challenges – works closely together with the Ministry of Health, the health authorities, the heads of state, so all those who are currently responsible for the safety of the population. Today's meeting here in the House will be followed by a conference with the Heads of State and the Federal Chancellor in order to carry out the further action closely. My request and appeal to the conclusion: Let us be determined and clear about this challenge, but let us give up on political change! Let's see that people get exactly what they expect from politics: Security and clarity in dealing with challenges!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12810	I thank you for the two reports. We are now going into the debate. Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12834	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This Covid-19, this disease, this virus is actually a challenge that concerns many countries, of course also Austria. What we know so far from the medical point of view: In more than 80 percent of cases, the disease is relatively mild as a gripping infection. That's a good news. At the same time, our older fellow citizens and individuals with a limited immune system need special attention, because there is – well documented – a real risk of serious, possibly life-threatening processes. We in Austria, in turn, are happy to have a very good health system capable of dealing with serious cases of illness. The possibility of contagion is, of course, what one has in particular politically. This is about the droplet infection, which means: Infection in direct contact. It is said that this danger is given within a distance of 1 to 2 meters between the infected and the non-infected. However, the virus also has the property to persist on surfaces – at least for a time – so that an indirect transmission route is also possible. In addition, this means, of course, that appropriate measures need to be put in place. And these measures – which can really be said without restrictions – have been implemented in Austria. The state crisis and disaster management management has been raised immediately, the already mentioned staff as well as the health department in the management of disasters, so in particular the coordination of the various decision-making levels in Austria has been very well launched. It is also very important that the information rail is played accordingly. There are many websites from the official side as well as the action to spread messages and information about the APA, the ORF and other media. Then, of course, the 1450s number was raised and their own hotline was set up on the subject of Coronavirus. What can you do to control yourself? – It has already been addressed the completely banal wisdom of hand washing – that is really the turning and going up, which each of us can do. Please don't put false trust in masks! – These, if at all, have a highly subordinate meaning. If you may be affected, it is very important not to go to the next human collection immediately, into a doctor's coordination. run, but call 1450 and cause health care providers to come to one. Of course, a very important measure is the quarantine facilities, on the one hand home quarantines for individuals, and on the other hand what is already very well prepared in many federal states: specialized hospitals. In the Styria, even a closed hospital is ready to get up again, so that you are determined to be able to provide the affected persons accordingly, more cases should happen to us. The next two to three weeks – which has already been mentioned – will decide whether to actually stop the spread, or whether we will have to focus on curbing and slowing the spread as much as possible. The first scenario is desirable, but also concerning the second one: In the second scenario, all efforts are absolutely sensible, because the less it spreads, the less serious cases we will have and the better our highly equipped health system will be able to provide optimal care for these patients. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I would like to make an appeal – this is now true of Corona, but it is always the case –: If authorities are taking preventive action somewhere and then it turns out that God can be given warning, then it says immediately: The measure was exaggerated! and: Has that been necessary at all? – But once something happens, it says immediately: Why did the authorities not respond? – That’s why I think it’s right and good that we’ll react accordingly and that we’re really pulling together. I would like to conclude by thanking the Federal Government for this consistent approach and wish the ministers involved a calm and secure hand as before. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12895	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr.in Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e12917	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Nehammer, I've been listening to you very well. I fully agree with you, your statement that we should not deal with this serious situation and thematics with polemics; but in the sense of constructively dealing with this serious situation, one must already be clear: [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This appeal applies to all of us, especially to you, Mr Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Bravo! Bravo!]] I don't know how you are, but in the last few days I have been contacted very often, via Twitter, Facebook, SMS, Whatsapp, was addressed on the street – no later than the weekend, since the strong rise of the Italian case numbers, and since yesterday, of course, since the first Austrian cases. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: And of party members!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] For a few minutes now, we know that a third case has occurred in Vienna. These conversations and these news have, above all, a central content: People have a need to get an answer; the big issue is Corona. People ask questions wherever, on the street or wherever they are met; these questions are simple and they are obvious. The question that is always asked is: How can I protect myself? How can I protect my children? How dangerous is the virus and what else is coming to us? – These questions are often asked, and you might now ask yourself: Have they been exaggerated? – No, these questions are not exaggerated. Is it surprising that they are now being put in this high number? - No, that's not surprising. Are we dealing with a crisis, ladies and gentlemen? – I personally deal with the word crisis very carefully and carefully and also feel that the word crisis is used much too often in the political discourse. But here and today, in view of what we have seen in recent weeks, we must say: This is an epidemic – in the light of the rise in figures to more than 80,000 cases worldwide within a few weeks, on more than 300 cases within a few days in Italy and on three cases within a few hours in Austria, with an unestimated number of deaths. This development is worrying, insecure and leads people to ask many questions. It is justified to speak now and today of a crisis, of a crisis in Austria, in Europe, worldwide, of a health crisis that is cross-border. Yes, our common goal can only be and must be to solve this crisis together – you said, Mr. Federal Minister Anschhober – and to master it together. We then deal particularly well and efficiently with crises when we work together, shoulder to shoulder, authorities with the government, with Parliament, with the people, with doctors, with care, with science and, of course, with the international organizations that exist worldwide. It is only one thing to address and manage this crisis: It is about the health of the Austrians, and there is nothing more significant in the lives of people than health. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I also give you the right if you both say that party-political hack has lost nothing, fears have lost nothing, panic has lost absolutely nothing and is not in place – is actually always wrong in place, we call it by name! It is important to assume responsibility, we all have to take responsibility. Taking responsibility means solving problems. Taking responsibility means giving honest, transparent answers to questions that are asked. The Austrians want to be informed, and I continue: They need to be informed. That is why I proposed a few days ago to launch an information campaign on Corona, because crisis communication is the end and end of crisis management and, hopefully, the resulting success. I am glad that you received this suggestion and request very quickly from the Federal Government, and I hope that it will soon be fully implemented, because uncertainty, fears and concerns are not what is needed in this situation. The fears can only be met with information, information and transparency, and we must give them. It is information that counts most now, which is most important, and it must be understandable, in a language that is easily accessible, an information that is transparent and honest and that also says what we do not know at this time. That's a new virus, and – I'm right with my previous speaker – we don't know how the next few weeks are going to develop, whether we're really in front of a pandemic and what the WHO is going to call the pandemic in a few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to work together to the best possible extent possible in this crisis, we need a good, honest exchange between the government, Parliament and our parties. That is why it is good for you to make your statement here today, and it is very good that we will discuss and discuss this important issue together in the National Security Council tomorrow. That's what I'm going to be talking about, like: What scenarios is the government prepared for in what form and how? Playing through is very important. What are your plans, your level and application plans? What is the medical capacity for insulating units as far as breathing equipment is concerned as regards medicines needed in these situations? Also: Are there any experts available to you in the form of advisory boards, for example in the medical field, and if so, which ones? What are the safety arrangements for possibly exposed staff – personnel in the field of airport safety, personnel working in cleaning services in various exposed areas, rail and other transport, truck drivers who may be driving in these regions? All these are questions we also want to have answered. Who is central to crisis management in Austria? Who makes the final decision and who has the responsibility for it? There are three ministries involved, sometimes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then there are four. There are nine federal states involved. Yes, and there is also a health insurance, a social security that must be involved and an important partner. Who is the central crisis coordinator? Who coordinates the federal states in close meetings and structures? – These are questions that we will ask you tomorrow and which we hope will also answer. [[Abg. Kickl: We would have liked answers today!]] These questions must be asked, and I am also very glad that you, Minister Anschober, said only yesterday that you want to meet the demand for central health crisis management in so far as you want to rebuild a structure in the health ministry, namely a crisis management structure that has worked well for decades under black and blue, under Minister Hartinger-Klein, two years ago. The central health crisis manager is missing. I am very glad that you have announced your efforts to rebuild and rebuild this ministerial structure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm convinced: It's got to go fast. We don't need this functioning structure in just a few months, we need it quickly. We need to speed up, we need to become more efficient, because a goal must be achieved: We must not be behind the virus, we must be a step ahead of the virus. In this sense, I wish for transparency and information. This creates trust, and trust is the prerequisite for a successful management of the health crisis of Corona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13021	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kicklzu word. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13045	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by addressing Mr Nehammer as soon as possible. You know, Mr Minister, even if you are still starting such unqualified attacks against the Freedom Party, they cannot distract from the shortcomings of your handling of the Coronavirus. They can still make such efforts, but these deficits become more visible from day to day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one of us has mocked or disdained any police officer or police officer in this republic, as you have claimed – the opposite is the case! You have to protect the police in this situation from you, because an insult, Mr. Federal Minister, is quite different: That's what you do if To protect your own police in Burgenland from the Coronavirus flu protection mask – production: Year 2005, due date: ==References== Even if I still calculate the tolerance limit – this is the old Glumpert, which is located from the times of bird flu virus somewhere else – this is not an effective protection measure for our police, and at the same time you send hundreds of thousands of masks to China! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To do such a thing is to increase our police officers, and not to criticize your actions. I'll write this to you in the main book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I don't think it's a false finding when you talk about the country being in a kind of corona fever for at least a few days. Not that the first ones start to cry again – this has nothing to do with panic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] – Listen to me! If I'm talking about a corona fever, I don't mean that the number of new diseases would take on any dimension that you'd have to worry more about. That is not the case, thank God, and I believe we are also in the good situation that we do not have scenarios before us, that no developments are coming that can only be thought of with horror – for example, when you see in the pictures from China what measures are necessary there to control this virus. No, thank God, it's not in Austria. Let us all be glad and hope that this condition will last as long as possible. It would be best if it were a permanent state, because if I were to get into a situation where I would need to be coordinated and informed accordingly by this government, ladies and gentlemen, then it would look sad, and I will also tell you why this is so. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I meant something else with the corona fever in which this country is located. I have meant that large parts of the population are in a state of uncertainty, in a state of ambiguity as to information and organization, and the government is doing and neglecting unwholesome contributions to this state rather than providing for information. [[Abg. Steinacker: That is why there is now the state declaration!]] But with fever, I also mean some kind of arousal – I almost want to say: hyperventilating – on the part of the media in this context. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: And now you are blaming the government?]] There's a real report-staccato, the media consumer is almost beaten up in a way: one special broadcast after another, breaking news on the running band, liveticker of any suspicious cases, which one then increases as if there were actual cases of infection, and so on and so on. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: What can the government do for it now?]] I think it is necessary to remind the ladies and gentlemen of their responsibilities in a large way, without being treated by the media as a majestic policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I understand that there is a struggle for market shares, and I also understand that there is a certain greed for clicks, because they are connected with advertising, but I believe that in such a situation there is also a necessary contribution to the overall responsibility, and that also the media cannot escape. Now I'm back with you [[towards the government bank]] I'm doing your job here. Why don't you deal with the media? Why do I not hear what I have said now from you, from the government, by taking the responsible ones into duty? [[Abg. Loacker: There are so nice crisis staff photos! So beautiful!]] I'd like to do your job if you're not able to do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The really bad thing about the whole situation is, however, that the entire government – and now I am back with you – despite a variety of performances, one can no longer speak of stagings, which is now a pomped vocabulary – is not able to unravel this mess and finally create communicative and organizational clarity in the fight against the corona virus. [[pointing towards the government bank]] You will come to an end very quickly. The black speech robots come with their kit: German in 300 words – this is the rhetoric program, by which all have to march through – to the limits of performance. It is not enough to deal with this crisis accordingly, and that is the real problem. I'm thinking about Your five-point program, which you presented – at the beginning of this week it was presented to the public – and I only take one point out. The first point is always the most important, and the first sentence is the most important point in the first. This first sentence of your project, your crisis management plan, says that the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior inform the Federal Chancellor every day. This is one of the crisis response plans of the Austrian Federal Government against the corona virus. Now I'm telling you something: The Austrian population will have nothing of its intra-coalitional rites if it is to lead the fight against this virus with all determination. You can do that with each other, but the effect of this measure on Corona is zero, but the other four points are not much more meaningful either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem lies precisely in this: no clear structure and coordination as far as the Organization is concerned, no clear coordination and no clear information. [[Abg. Steinacker: He doesn't want to understand!]] Information policy is something else to present as a flickering slut. Information policy does not mean that as many different people as possible should speak in as many microphones as possible. That is, I believe, your interpretation of information policy, but that's not gonna happen. In addition, they also have at government level a healing mess as regards the areas of competence; they permanently suffocate one another into the crafts in areas which actually do not concern him at all. I am afraid, Minister of Health, that you have become a victim of the ÖVP project, which is called supervised governance. At Mrs Zadić, we have already seen how far this leads if each one gets his own guard. There's a little to watch out for. It is, however, a question of keeping the competences stunned and clearly apart. Now I ask you, my competent Minister: Since when do you actually know that the corona virus is on its way to Europe and thus probably also to Austria? I think you won't know it any shorter than we all do. We've known since about the middle of January. Now I ask you: Why, damn it, has it not been possible to establish one – and I emphasize – a responsible central body for coordinating the information of the population to this day? [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] It's about one, not many, because only with such a place can you turn off this flickering tape. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and NEOS]] .. I ask the two ministers who is actually responsible for the failure to take a very close step and, for example, to reserve a domain such as www.coronavirus.at for themselves. In my opinion, this would be a communication platform of the Austrian Federal Government. Who's responsible for sleeping like this? This is the term that is being Googleled everywhere, and that would be the side on which everyone would land, who is now trying to get information from the net, of which one does not know of what quality and how current they are. [[Abg. Steinacker: There is the hotline! ...that's incredible!]] [[Further calls to ÖVP and Greens.]] Who missed this? I ask you, gentlemen, on the side of the Federal Government: Where's the corona virus app? We live in 2020, for everything there is an app – this is a programming little thing to produce. But you've slept all of this, even though you would have an immediate access to the smartphone of any person he needs every day in private and, of course, at work. I ask you, because communication is not only a culprit of the population, but also a debt of the government: Where, please, is the active communication campaign of the Federal Government? Where are the connected spots on TV, in the social media, on different websites, on the radio? Where is all this and why does it not exist in this form, so the one who sees it knows: This is an information that the seal of quality of the Austrian Federal Government carries, I can rely on it!? – All of this is going to be desperate, but there is simply no such thing. Where are the information leaflets? Where are the leaflets and the advertisements that belong to such a campaign? [[Abg. Loacker: ads?]] Where's all this? – Yes, there would be some sense of government, Deputies Loacker! [[Abg. Loacker: ads?- Oh, my God!]] Here they would have meaning – but there is no such thing as that, and that is an accusation you have to make. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because you're talking so much about that you're perfectly prepared for the case: We have seen this as the only hotline – for which you have already missed several numbers in the world history, which nobody knows anyway – that is, one of these hotlines at the lowest andrang immediately went to the knees, because the storm on this hotline has been too big. Do you call this a good preparation for what has actually been expected? - It looks different from me. Do you call this a good preparation if you take the so-called Director-General for Public Security – who, by the way, is not a Director-General for Public Security, but only a deputy, because you haven't occupied this position for nine months; I'm telling you: he's doing this, a key function in the Austrian security gear, as a side job – to the television studio, to send it to one of the most important news programmes in that country, and he's dileting the whole situation there, because he's suddenly talking about storing mineral water, and thus giving the impression that our drinking water and tap water would have anything to do with the transmission of the corona virus? – This is an act of responsibility, what happens in the name of the security device! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Rejoicing of the Federal Minister Tanner]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Matznetter and Mr Steinacker.]] But I think it's what you meant when you said you're going to deal with the virus with all the hardness. These are appearances like those of the Director-General for Public Security, who is not such a one at all – because you are away from border controls or from a quarantine, for example from illegals! I am already with you, Mr Health Minister, when you say that it is difficult to carry out appropriate control, but you are pretending that this virus would not also be in the form of human form – logically – to find the way across our borders. If it is our goal and our common thrust to prevent spread, it is obvious that everything must be done to stop another drag in this virus. That's not what I'm listening to! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is likely that you will not be able to get through to this measure, because as safety equipment only the expired bird protection masks from 2005 are available and you, of course, cannot put the police on the border with good conscience. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich]] That is the truth behind your passiveity in this matter. I can only tell you, Mr Federal Minister: Do your job at last! Free after Sebastian Kurz Performance On this important question, you have a substantial contribution to make to this country forward and to the people's being insecure, which is now due in many parts of your missing communication policy! People can figure it out anyway, but that's in the current situation; I don't want to rely that all of this works when the development actually takes on a negative dynamic. I've met in the past few weeks that you've been completely overwhelmed in this situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13336	The next item is the speech by Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13360	Madam President. Minister and Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at home in front of the screens and here in the house on the gallery! In fact, I thought we were now discussing the statements made by the two ministers in half a matter of fact. This has also worked very well, until the proverb has become valid again: And if you think it's no longer possible, the kickl will come from somewhere!, because something other than panic, it wasn't now, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Houses: Facts are always “panic”! Oh, my God!]] I know you'd imagine all of this a little different, and you'd imagine it differently at the time. You would probably be here today, if you were still Federal Minister for the Interior, with the self-certified coronavirus uniform occurring here and giving just another speech. You're supposed to be allowed to do this and you're okay. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is crucial, however, that there is a different approach to this challenge in this country, namely a calm, objective, fact-based approach. That's good, because we also know very well that this quiet, objective, transparent way allows us to deal adequately with this whole story. Corona shows us on the one hand how important international work is in the case of crisis. It is good that we have chosen a common approach in Europe. This not only ensures that we are always up-to-date, but also ensures that we know what is going on in our neighbouring countries. In this way, together with our neighbouring countries, we can respond accordingly, and that is a good thing. On the other hand: This international cooperation also shows us that cooperation between countries also arouses great hopes, because the faster, the more and the closer we work together, the more we can find a solution to this challenge that the Coronavirus brings, the more likely there will be a vaccine. It doesn't make sense to go up the borders; that's what all the experts tell us every day, that's explained to us all the time and time and again. [[Abg. Deimek: Why not fly to China?]] It also makes no sense to carry out any border controls, because you may know that a virus does not know the principle of a border. [[Abg. Kickl: But the person it carries, right? Then why are the people in quarantine? Explain this to me!]] – But you know we have a 14-day transfer period? – Go S’, listen Come on! – No, I’m not on the lead, but you obviously do, because you don’t accept what our experts, our scientists, say evidence-based. [[Abg. Kickl: Now you're on the line!]] [[Abg. Kickl: But then they don't need to put anyone in quarantine!]] – Fit it, it's okay, it's all right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, it is also significant that from your side comes the demand to suspect refugees in general and to put them in quarantine. This also shows in what dimension and in what way you obviously still think. With such discriminatory growth, however, something else becomes the subject, because it is precisely with such a policy that Asians are in the meantime being plagued in all public on the grounds of their origin. That's happening! We have only recently seen that a young Chinese herself has walked through Vienna with a sign on which: I'm not a virus! – I mean, this is already embarrassing, and there are exactly you who are - - I am still very good, but you are obviously not doing well. [[Abg. Kickl: Tell me, are you okay?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13481	I would ask for the following: Interlocutory calls are an instrument of debate – you all know it – but I would think that it is also important not to violate the dignity of the House in the case of interlocutory calls. Ladies and gentlemen, please proceed with your remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13507	We can hold on once again: So far, every suspicion reported in Austria has responded quickly and professionally by the authorities. – On that we can agree, I believe. It was also evaluated how it was responded to to learn from it. In a country where structures are so small in health care, it is not a matter of course that everything works so well. It's all the better that everyone really pulls on a line. - That's right, that's fact. Today, we have also been told by the two ministers what the current strategy is. We see that there are also appropriate campaigns, which are now also communicated to the public. The demands raised here today are: I do not understand the two requests which have been submitted. A good side has the whole thing but also: In the meantime, we are also discussing in Austria how it looks about self-protection against diseases. We should use this increased attention, too. While all in our country are breaking their heads over Corona, the real influenza with several 100,000 sufferers is probably a bigger challenge, just as we have been experiencing a return of the measles in our country for years – both diseases, against which there is, by the way, a vaccination protection. That is to say, we should use this increased attention of the population to animated people in our country and to protect themselves from precisely these diseases, for which there is just a vaccination protection, and also to use this vaccination protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13553	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13574	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I would like to say to Klubobmann Kickl: If he says that in this case government Councils had once had a meaning, he of course also agrees that his government insanity obviously had no meaning. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: “Info-direct”!]] Well, a new virus that is spreading around the world is, of course, very unpleasant, but you can handle it in two ways: One can explain to the population what the situation is, one can accompany it soberly and objectively with information, and one can explain what action the public is taking. For example, this has made Austrian broadcasting on many channels very sober and objective; not all media have done so. The Minister of Health has also chosen this variant: keep the ball flat, collect information, pass on information, work on the facts. – Good: Look, look at, continue looking, look at this is, of course, a domain of Rudi Anschhober, but in this case the procedure is justified. SPÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP have opted for the hysteria variant. It is particularly embarrassing when the Immunologist Rendi-Wagner presses on the panic button and requires treatment at the National Security Council. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: I'm not an immunologist!]] If this information were to require an intervention of the National Security Council, the National Security Council would have to meet each year because of the influenza. The doctor Rendi-Wagner knew better, but the politician Rendi-Wagner already got a little out of the way. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: A madness!]] If FPÖ also comes in immediately, wants border controls and wants to minimise border traffic, no one is surprised – the political game is running – but in the competition down, of course, Nehammer, Minister of the Interior, wants to do nothing. He goes to the State Police Department in Salzburg and, in addition to the uniformed Land Police Director, explains that all determined hardness will be done against the corona virus. The corona virus is afraid, and in these words the citizens who are insecure are rightly afraid. The Executive Director-General for Public Security also contributes to this when he speaks on the radio of the fact that pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical transports are placed under police protection – without any need. It is clear that every citizen must be slowly concerned when the public authorities approach citizenship in this way. If you look at the numbers sober now, you could also say: In Italy, between 11,000 and 16,000 people die each year from the influenza, from the classical flu, and also from the corona virus, there are many people who have already been weakened older and healthy. Nor would it be possible to close the borders each year because of the influenza, to convene the Security Council, or to give police protection to pharmacies. Then please do it as the employees do in the health system: Make your job, do your job, and stop panicking the people! Now to what we can learn from it in Austria: We can talk a lot about crisis management, because what we now have is three crisis telephone numbers: the 1450, which is the health shotline anyway, the ten-digit number that Minister Nehammer has said in the Stakkato, and the Tyroleans still have their own number, because what is a head of state without a phone number! Peter Kaiser – he's here today – doesn't have one yet, but he'll probably do that quickly. We've got crisis photos in the media. – Great, but what kind of crisis staff is this when the Federal Chancellor and several ministers sit in it? You don't know how a crisis staff works in a company! The experts have to get in there, and the management's outside. But you're not about the matter, you're about the staging. The way the citizens are doing is completely wretched. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] So we need to talk about it: How do we deal with a crisis? What do we do if, for example, we are dealing with a blackout? Then what is Austria doing? – Then there is the same chaos as we are now experiencing. We also need to talk about the following: What does pharmaceutical industry and research mean in the pharmaceutical industry? What is the meaning of research and development at the Austrian site? What does research and development mean in Europe? – Then maybe a few there on the left should turn the pharmabashing back a few steps and know that to a large extent health is also a result of scientific progress. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13652	I greet the head of state of Carinthia, Peter Kaiser, at the gallery – he pursues the debate. Welcome! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The next speaker was Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13686	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers! Mr. Landeshuptmann! Coronavirus: This issue is particularly important in the global discussion of the last few days and the last weeks. First of all, I may be able to talk a little bit about the facts in Austria, then, to Mr Loacker. It has been reported today: 445 tests, three positive, so three infections, two of them with gentle course. If you compare the figures of the past few years with regard to influenza – The flu virus, the influenza that we actually know from everyday life and which affects each of us – looks at: 1 800 to 2,000 deaths in Austria every year. Many doctors therefore say quite clearly: The situation is not dramatic at all! – Others say: Well, it's not that simple, we still know too little – about the origin, the path of disease, the danger, the protection measures. As soon as these developments become known, ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government has the only right thing – the only gold right! – done, namely unagitated under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, together with the Minister of Health and with the Minister of the Interior responsible for Austria, and prepared the appropriate measures in question. The integrated management and staff, already mentioned today, is the focus of the coordination of the work between the Ministry of Health, all the departments concerned and the countries concerned. This staff meets – we heard it today – around the clock. But what is particularly important to me – and this is also reflected in the statements made by Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner: The Federal Government has also understood what people in this country want and need, namely information. Every day there is information to assess the dangers, but also practical tips on how to protect yourself, all of this with the aim of preventing or at least limiting the spread of the virus now – because now it is necessary, now is the right time. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the more than professional reports of our Minister for Health Rudolf Anschober and our Minister for the Interior Karl I can only say Nehammer with good conscience: The Austrians can rely on it: We're well prepared. We're very well prepared. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is also quite clear that we must react consistently and quickly to suspicions, even in the case at the Vienna School yesterday. It was precisely the right measures that have been put in place. These measures will also be evaluated again and again and will come into common staff work – perhaps new – solutions. But it seems to me essentially, and this has been clearly addressed today: Let's not make the theme a political gameball! The Austrians did not deserve this. Let us stay on an objective basis! I tell you honestly – I would have liked to say it personally to Mr Klubobmann Kickl – please send it to him: I believe that many Austrians today are just happy in this situation – even I am very personal – that there is no Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl, but there is a quiet, thoughtful and consistent Minister of the Interior Karl Nehammer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Federal Government, but also the countries and the head of state – he has just arrived in time – for his sensible manner. – Thank you for working together! That's how we deal with challenges, and that's good. Austria can rely on the fact that health care and safety work really well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13761	Next speaker: Mr Philip Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13785	Madam President. Estimated government members! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have already talked very often about the fact that this issue, as I believe, is too serious for party-political hack. We all know people – in the circle of friends, in the family environment – people have met or people have written to us who are worried. Grandparents are concerned about the health of their grandchildren. There are people who worry about grandparents; Friends and families discuss the topic of Coronavirus. From my point of view, policy would have two major tasks: on the one hand, for all the people in the health sector, in the public service, to ensure that this virus does not spread out to create the best environment, and on the other hand to provide a transparent information that also takes fear, because fears are, of course, present. To what happened today, I must say that this hack between Kickl and Nehammer is unfortunately something that, I think, all sides have noticed: It's not supposed to be like that. On the one hand, the former Minister Kickl, who said it was an insanity, what Mr Nehammer is doing, how he is insecure – to colleagues Kickl: of course, that doesn't have to be, of course – and on the other hand, Mr. Nehammer, who, unlike his previous speaker, Minister Anschhober – your old role as Secretary-General is still a little bit through, Mr. Minister – always has a bit of actionism, which has staging in mind. It doesn't work that way. It is important that the crisis staff works well, but it is not so important that the photo of Sebastian Kurz is perfect and his hair is sitting. [[Abg. Steinacker: Please go!]] So let's make sure we all really put the information in the foreground and not the hairstyle of Sebastian Kurz! That must be the common task. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Just this hack between Kickl and Nehammer shows that this topic is too serious. Let's all do it together! One point that has been raised more often today, Mr Kickl has criticized: Where's the central point? – Of course, it helped a little bit at the beginning between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior. Minister Nehammer said in the morning that there was no reason to panic, as the “Small Newspaper” so beautifully carried out, and 12 hours later the train was blocked. This is, of course, not a congruence in communication. It would have been important to act together with the Minister of Health. But to ensure that there is this common flow of information and communication, I think we need a central point. I cannot spare the criticism that Sebastian Kurz and Beate Hartinger-Klein, under the title Saven in the system, have bloated their political apparatus, but have drowned one of the most important areas in Austria, namely the area of the Directorate-General for Public Health. A working section that has taken over the international coordination that has been in contact with the WHO has been smashed – Pamela Rendi-Wagner has addressed it today. She has done excellent work in this function – you have not mentioned it yourself –: [[towards Abg. Rendi-Wagner]] Whether it was Mers, whether it was Ebola, whether it was Egoc, whether it was the incident in Fukushima, you were quiet and unafraid. You have provided information from a scientific point of view, from the point of view of medicine. This place, however, has unfortunately been smashed. I must welcome the fact that the mistake has now been repaired and that the whole thing has been looked into in retrospect, so to speak. We need a central position in the health sector and not a spotter somewhere, with everyone saying something else about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to get the whole thing moving quickly, I have to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to support this motion for a resolution. It is important, in addition to the support of all the people who are now working day by day to ensure that the corona virus does not spread, to improve the information and coordination in Austria. I believe that this is an important step that we can take together. Thank you very much for your support in advance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[11:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13916	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e13940	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! First of all, I have to make a brief replica on my previous speaker or also on colleague Rendi-Wagner: The argument that Minister of Health Hartinger-Klein would have broken down the health crisis management in the Ministry of Health and would no longer be a central management function is simply wrong. Until September 2019, the competent health director was Dr. Magdalena Arrouas, she retired and has not yet been reoccupied by the transitional government or the current government. But this position was very well occupied and there was nothing broken down at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] According to my knowledge, there was at the time also a direct offer for colleague Rendi-Wagner to take over this function herself, which she rejected. In this situation, we would now have a proven expert, since she would certainly have been well taken up. But now on the subject of today's debate: I know that it is Usus, a new Federal Government, a new Federal Minister 100 days' time-limit before facing him with too severe criticism. The current action of the Federal Government in the Corona crisis, which I can only call a hesitant, halfhearted one and, above all, unprofessional in the initial phase, makes it really difficult for me to keep up with it. There was obviously a foreign exchange to react exclusively instead of acting properly and taking the appropriate precautions in good time. It is important to me to make it clear that I also do not see excessive risk of the currently curing corona virus Sars-Cov-2 or of the disease caused by it Covid-19. The virus is easily transferable, but as we have heard today, the disease is also mild in over 80 percent of cases and the mortality rate is similar to the seasonal flu in the low percentage range. No, rather dangerous is the so far inadequate and hesitant information policy on the part of the Federal Government. Not only the public, but also Parliament, the parliamentary groups and the health speakers had to be very long on concrete Awaiting information from the public side. Although I see it as very positive that you, Mr Minister, have distributed and also given an opinion here today, this information would have been necessary three to four weeks ago after the first suspicions in Austria. This means that the media have filled this gap with speculation, half-truths and ignorance. Even until the establishment of a free telephone hotline for the population, it took more than a month after the first suspicions, and whether a number like 0800 555 621 is absolutely suitable for the citizens to remember and call them easily, it is obvious that the hotline has already collapsed at the first major storm at the beginning of this week. The first measures you have taken towards travellers from epidemic areas were also completely inadequate, because unfortunately, I can only describe fever measurements and a medical reporting requirement as placebo measures, especially given that we already knew that the time of incubation is two weeks – at least, partly even longer – and people with no symptoms can already be contagious. In the meantime, you have implemented what I called for at the time, namely that affected individual cases are isolated, an immediate virus test is carried out and the infection status is clarified, so that these people can be released from isolation as soon as possible or cases of disease are detected early before further spread of the disease takes place. Thus, Minister of the Interior, it is pure happiness and not the success of your crisis management that there are no more cases of infection in Austria to date. I fully hope that the further action will be better coordinated with the experts, especially from your place of business, and that sufficient and early precautions will be taken for a larger outbreak, which I hope will never occur. As it is also particularly important to me that we achieve better and complete information for the population and for Parliament, I propose the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:50]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14168	This motion for a resolution is also properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14195	In his speech, Deputy Kaniak said that under black and blue in the Ministry of Health, no structure was broken down, which is now missing. That's wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, the right thing is: Under the responsibility of then Minister of Health Hartinger-Klein, an organisational reform in her ministry was implemented in her first year of office – i.e. immediately – and in the course of this reform the section on public health which had been in existence for decades and which had been working in crises was dissolved. We've been standing in front of this shredded pile in the first major health crisis since Black-Blue resigned. We warned about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14222	Mr Georg Bürstmayr has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14244	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! What we have heard in Parliament today are reports from ministries, interim reports from the administration. Administration is an attempt to deal with the present. Politics is an attempt to shape the future. We are also fighting about the design of the future here in Parliament along party borders, along our convictions. We should address the challenges of the present together, as we say so beautifully, across the party borders. That is why I would like to thank you at this point, Mrs. Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, for a video that you put on the web a few days ago, with several minutes of factual, competent, calm information on how we can not only protect ourselves, but also on how we can look at each other in this situation, because it is about it. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I think it is a good sign that both – dealing with the present and shaping of the future – are possible at the same time and that this is happening here. We're... We are so well placed for the present that, after this debate in the House, we will also have time to argue about the future and very different topics than about a new virus. Since parliamentarians have designed it before us and tens of thousands of employees have built it up, we have a health system that is prepared. In Austria we do not have to stamp a hospital for up to 11 million people in ten days, because we already have 60 hospitals in Austria, which are able to offer the necessary medical treatment, for this new virus as well as for old-known diseases. We're prepared. We do not have to rush into Parliament's laws, emergency regulations or other decisions, as the laws and regulations necessary have long been passed, the crisis bars and coordination bodies that have been applied. We're prepared. And we are sure, because security does not mean the absence of danger, but security is the knowledge that will help me if I am in danger of whether this is the threat of my property, my physical integrity or my health. Security is the knowledge that we are not alone, but there for each other. Because generations of delegates, officials, physicians and construction workers have worked on it in front of us, we can say today: We are prepared and we are sure because we know that we can and will help each other. Maybe there are some who find that is boring. Headlines only make the danger. The knowledge that we help each other does not generate clicks and increases no edition numbers. This is not a sensation, this knowledge is boring. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let us work to ensure that this boredom is preserved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14295	Mrs Alexandra Tanda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14316	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! As a new Member of Parliament, I am particularly honored today to be able to make my first speech here in the House a great challenge, which we should necessarily meet together and with caution. I would like to thank Mr Anschober and the Minister of the Interior for the clear and clear statements on the corona virus. Especially in times of uncertainty, myths and panics and the choking of fear are absolutely not helpful. We need facts, first-hand facts to prevent the spread of the virus in the best possible way. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Panic mache is best met with information, information and assistance. Our Federal Government has voted quickly, conscientiously, prudently and internationally. I'm from Innsbruck. As we all know, in the country of Tyrol – and for this I am particularly grateful to our head of state Günther Platter – we are trying to take every necessary and targeted measure to protect citizens. In addition to the constant exchange with the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for the Interior, it is especially necessary to have a cross-border approach. coordinate and exchange information. The close contact with our neighbor Italy, especially in the Euregio, is of utmost importance. Our task is to provide good information to citizens. I can mention the Red Cross here as one of many organisations, all of which make an important contribution at this time. The preventive work of the Red Cross has been greatly strengthened, and major and voluntary staff ensure that the spread of the virus is controlled. We have already talked a lot about information offensives: A website was established by the Red Cross with all necessary information on the prevention and emphasis on compliance with the hygiene rules. In addition, of course, it needs certainty for the people. It is therefore important to have a hotline set up and that citizens can be tested in so-called screening ambulances. I would therefore like to thank the Minister of Social Affairs, the Federal Government as a whole and all those involved for their tireless commitment to our people.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14365	Next speaker: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14386	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers! It could have been expected that this is a very important and sensitive issue today and that there will be no party-political hack. This has been achieved over long distances, but unfortunately there has also been outsiders. Mr Klubobmann Kickl, I have the feeling that you had too little or no speaking time at the political ash on Wednesday, as you have turned up here today. That was definitely the wrong place to go into the emotion and polarize! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] And Mr Loacker, who plays here every time as an expert for almost everything, is said [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] This is the wrong time and the wrong place to practice criticism in this form. [[Abg. Kickl: But you ate the wisdom with the spoon!]] – It can be good, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, it can be good, in any case, I don't think it looks so bad. It must be the top goal, ladies and gentlemen – in order to return to the material level – that we inform the population as best we can and do everything we can so that there is no uncertainty and panic. I believe that this is the important thing that we must take into account in this debate in order to deal with this situation carefully and carefully. What does it need? – It takes a quiet and objective way to inform. I am very glad, Minister Anschober, that you do and do this in this form, but we believe that more needs to be done. From our point of view, we need a national crisis coordinator, a person who is well-informed, who is taking precautions and who is then taking the right measures with due thought. That is, I believe, the important and the decisive. At the beginning of the crisis, you came to the media in the ministerial duo and said: There is no country that is better prepared than Austria!, but in the current scenario it appears that there are weaknesses in the process. We have weaknesses in the process. While there is already the knowledge – Mr. Anschhober says that you will need to improve and see how you improve – the great challenge is that you find the balance and take safeguard measures without creating uncertainty. That's the balance you need to find on this question, and we can't do that everywhere. I think that the balance is quite tilted in one, two cases. I take as an example the train stop in Tyrol or also yesterday the case of the school that has been closed and locked. It's not about saying: You don't have to do that. – I think you have to take measures, but it’s about dosing, and the dosage is the wrong one from my point of view. It is not necessary to send a large bid of the police to any place to any suspicion. This is not the decisive and the most important thing we have to do. It is far more important, Minister Nehammer, that one sees that the police are adequately equipped, that there is protection for officials on the ground, and that we really create all the framework conditions, so that those who then have to take action on the spot on a daily basis are adequately protected and also have the material to carry out this task. It is an issue that is not suitable for productions, it is an issue that we should deal with in a matter of fact, a subject that needs good information, good coordination between ministries, between the federal states and at European level with WHO and whose processes and responsibilities are optimized. We also need to learn from such cases, and from our point of view this would work best with a national crisis coordinator who coordinates all of the things in which the threads collide. From our point of view, it would now be the time to re-use such a one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14443	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. That is what we are going to get to the vote. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘sudden, comprehensive and uniform information for the population on the corona virus’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerhard Kaniak, ladies and gentlemen, on 'full information policy on the threat scenarios of the Corona virus disease in Austria and Europe'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[12:05:11]] 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 275/A by Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, Mag. Ulrike Fischer, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MA, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Implementation of European Citizens' Initiatives (EBIG), BGBI. I No. 12/2012, as last amended by the Federal Law of the Federal Republic of Germany. I No. 32/2018, amended (43 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14521	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14548	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Barack Obama once said: Elections alone do not yet make democracy. - Quote. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichtfried and Mr Vogl.]] I fully agree with him, because it is not enough for people to set up a poll every few years and then say: Thank you, that's it! A democracy is about living together in a society. And this living together only works if we give the citizens a voice. Transparency and participation – these are the cornerstones of democracy. The word transparency, ladies and gentlemen, occurs 26 times in the government programme, because transparency is a crucial factor in a democratic community. However, we must also look beyond the national edges of the plate. It's clear: Only as a strong Europe can we enter into competition with the world, with the USA and China. However, Brussels alone must not determine the individual countries, so I am very pleased that we have a very strong voice in Europe with Karo Edtstadler and Sebastian Kurzein. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the European Citizens' Initiative, which we decide here, we bring people into the boat and give weight to their voices. We remove bureaucratic obstacles, for example by the fact that the European Commission has to make available on its own because of a free online collection system, or also by allowing identities to be reviewed by means of the Central Electoral Register in the future. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, with the European Citizens' Initiative, we can make important decisions within the European Union as a citizen and not only as a republic. That is why it is so important that we let people decide what things to worry about in the EU. So let me end with the sentence: We live democracy through participation and transparency. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14604	Next speaker: Mr Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14625	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The discussion of the phenomena of democracy and democratic processes is certainly one of the most interesting challenges for a democratic – and we are all here – that one can have, in particular, with regard to this balance between the different systems. The representative democracy on the one hand and direct democracy on the other are really exciting and challenging issues. If we move it all to the European level, and we are now doing so on this item on the agenda, we are dealing with even more unknown people, with more elements in the discussion. I should like to say to you that I am glad that it has succeeded in over-participatively, between the political groups, a common position. To find ways to make a little progress and drive forward this European citizens' initiative. Why is that necessary? – We have already experienced once or twice how it worked, and it has been recognized that there are major bureaucratic obstacles, that the question of networking is a very, very difficult one and that the number of signatures is sometimes difficult to reach. All this has led to the fact that not many such initiatives have been as successful as the Right-to-Water initiative, which has once succeeded in making a really big European step towards more direct democracy. It has been a question of protecting our water resources – from liberalisation, from sales and also from unhindered privatisation – ladies and gentlemen. But these few successes show that it is necessary to take further steps. I believe that the next steps we have agreed on – free online collection systems, the reduction of the minimum age, national contact points and so on – will probably make these citizens' initiatives more successful for the future – no, even fairly safe. Ladies and gentlemen, let us work to ensure that European democracy works better and then is able to deal with these difficult things that it is now dealing with. If we are committed to making citizens' participation easier at European level, we will have a more viable, beautiful and democratic Europe at the end of the day! That is our common goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14667	The next item is Mr Volker Reifenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14689	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! For us, direct democracy has always been a real matter of heart. It secures, provided correct and not only half-heartedly implemented, a fundamental and direct participation or co-decision to the electorate. Direct democracy is an important corrective of voters towards a often abolished political caste. After the saying: The voters are always right if politics is not afraid of direct democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Unfortunately, the reality of the European Citizens' Initiative looks something different. Although the present proposal does not make much better, but it does not make much worse, we will therefore agree with it, yet I warn you that we are developing too much towards a system of e-voting in the future. The European Citizens' Initiative is a toothless, technocratic structure that only precipitates the citizens for genuine participation, genuine participation in reality. The European Citizens' Initiative is not addressed to Parliament, that is to say to the legislative, but to the European Commission, that is to say to the executive. This may be due to the fact that the EU is something strangely designed, according to which the European Commission in principle has the sole right of initiative in the EU legislative process, which in itself, as it were, corresponds to a castration of the European Parliament and constitutes a democratic deficit. Since the EU Commission only needs to deal with such initiatives and has to deliver merely opinions, the fine image of participation in the non-binding character of petitions breaks down – if the EU Commission does not like the content of an initiative, then it is being shoved. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a direct democracy, as we imagine. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If, as small Austria, we do not manage to implement direct democracy at European level, which deserves the designation, then we should at least improve and strengthen direct democracy at national level in Austria. The Black People's Party, whose turquoise paint has long been turned off, is, however, a braker, for fear of its own electorate. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] The ÖVP led direct democracy in 2017 in its own election programme, but that was pure suffrage and not anymore. This turned out to be the case in the government negotiations between Black and Blue in 2017. That's when the short young people suddenly wanted to know nothing about direct democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Thus, our demand was that from 4 percent of those entitled to vote, which corresponds to approximately 260 000 signatures, a mandatory referendum could be imposed, raised by the previous black and blue government by black tactics to 900 000 votes and finally pushed back so far – until 2022 – that it could not be implemented at all. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am already excited how the other groups will stand on this request. How little the Turks really hold of direct democracy also shows a look at the turquoise-green government agreement. There's nothing to do with that. The terms of direct democracy, popular desire or referendum are not even found in this current government agreement, and of the full-fledged promises of the Greens, which I can remind of on page 63 of their own electoral programme, nothing is left in this Convention. At least at the time, we managed to bring this into the government agreement in a weakened variant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, the Greens have negotiated so badly that they have already failed in terms of content in general before fishing for their own members of the government. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there's still a lot to do. The way will be a longer one. Let us take the step towards real direct democracy both at European level and at national level! The voters will thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14840	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Ulrike Fischer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14865	I greet you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for allowing me to be here today! Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I think it's a serious issue. Direct democracy: We can do it or we can't do it, and the European Citizens' Initiative, which has been in place since 2011, could of course already have a different role today, but we are taking an important step with the change. It will now be possible in Austria to support such a citizens' initiative simply if you are registered in the Central Reporting Register with the registration address. That means: I am abroad, I am 16 years old, write down my address, which will then be examined in Austria, and with this I can participate in direct democracy. – This is not a small step. There is now a place in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs where you get all the necessary information: How to launch a European Citizens' Initiative? How many signatures do you need? How does this work? There is also a platform for networking. All these things help to develop direct democracy. If we want to live direct democracy, we must start here in Parliament. That means that we have to meet at eye level, that we have to listen to each other, that we have to be appreciative and take the requests of the others seriously. We are in favour of direct democracy, and the expansion of the European Citizens' Initiative is a real, important measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14895	The next speaker is Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14916	Madam President. High house! We NEOS – you all know – love and celebrate the common Europe. We are in favour of the idea that there is a unique space of political freedom in the world for 440 million people who call this space their home, not separated by borders, but above all by the European Way of Life. What is the name of European Way of Life? – This is a sense of freedom and security. It means having friendships all over the continent. It means living, working, living, loving where you want and how to do it. It means that in the night train from Vienna to Rome you don't have to worry about roaming fees and much more. It is said to be able to do with Erasmus plus the teaching throughout Europe. For businesses, for entrepreneurs, it means playing the huge internal market and thus being better able to claim on the global market. Of course, all of this has to be called much more. Those who love this united Europe must criticize it and develop it further. Today, it is about how 440 million Europeans can best decide what course the European Union will take in the future. That is why we decide, and this is very welcome, the development of the European Citizens' Initiative, which is becoming much lower. It is, in fact, an instrument of direct democracy which has already been implemented and allows a million citizens from at least seven Member States to step forward with a concern for the Commission and the European Parliament. For the collection of signatures, which has already been carried out, there will be a free online collection tool in the future and there will be numerous reliefs and clarifications. Today, therefore, European democracy is becoming a little more experienced and direct here in Austria. But let's not give in to illusions! The real opportunities for a strong Europe with each other are, of course, elsewhere: This begins with the Commission, which is occupied by national governments, instead of directly electing the President of the Commission; it goes further in the elections to the EU Parliament, where we choose national parties instead of European lists; it expresses itself in that the European Parliament still has no legislative initiative right; this implies that EU election campaigns are mostly determined by internal political squats, which have little and partly nothing to do with the future of Europe. That, ladies and gentlemen, would all be huge opportunities, and they would be used. This is what I am telling you, as a member of a generation, which is largely dependent on the fact that the Union is developing strongly and jointly in the future and is claiming itself in the world. Now I ask you – or do we ask ourselves together: Who could take advantage of this opportunity? . I tell you that this could be courageous pro-European politicians, true statesmen and statesmen who are concerned about the European way of living and who see that the economy and the freedom of life can only claim themselves in the world if we work together more politically. There are, of course, opportunities. Presidencies are such opportunities that the negotiations currently under way on the EU financial framework are such opportunities. Unfortunately, we are currently experiencing statements from our head of government about tricks and traps and the presentation of the Union as a money-loving association. To be honest, I find that unresponsible. This is another step on that dangerous path that is dangerous to the future of Europe and to the future of freedom and prosperity of my generation. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude: The European way of life that I have spoken of, in freedom, in prosperity and in democracy, also depends on how we further develop the European Union, how we stand together more closely, also by strengthening democratic instruments – as the European Citizens' Initiative is a valuable mosaic – but much more so by making courageous, responsible policies, and by using politicians who feel truly committed to this policy and future, for more Europe, for a more effective Europe, for a stronger Europe that speaks with one voice in the world and which can be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14959	Next speaker: Mr Johann Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e14983	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen here on the gallery and in front of the televisions! The origin of the European Citizens' Initiative is in the Treaty of Lisbon. With 1. The corresponding Regulation entered into force on 4 April 2011. A phase of evaluation of this European Citizens' Initiative was then started in 2015 and was further developed under the Austrian Presidency. I can also mention that Germany, Luxembourg and Finland were very committed to this. This new Regulation now came into force by 1. In January 2020. The amendment to be adopted today will make the necessary adjustments accordingly. A little bit of interesting side-by-side remark: For the first time on these novels, the Brexit has a very low degree of impact, but still: The necessary minimum number of signatorys per Member State has been changed. For Austria this means that in future not at least 14 250 but 13 395 signatures are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! What was the aim of the European Citizens' Initiative? – This is a clear way for the European people to be able to influence the European Union. The European Citizens' Initiative is an instrument for participating and participating democracy, with greater participation in EU policy. This new regulation will improve access for the population, which is very, very important. On the EU homepage, it is expressed that it is important that many people participate in initiatives. One invites more participation in areas that affect life, and one is interested in spreading the possibility of the European Citizens' Initiative. Today's debate here in our Parliament can also contribute to this. For all interested persons: The procedure is very detailed on the EU's homepage, and there is a good guide to introducing such initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, for politics to succeed, it needs constant contact and exchange with citizens. There are many possibilities for this at both federal and local level. At national level, as an example, I call the Vorarlberg Council of Citizens, at municipal level, the local agenda 21 process that exists in many communities in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, and especially valued spectators in front of the televisions! I invite you all to take advantage of the opportunities for citizens to participate, from the Agenda 21 process to the European Citizens' Initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15031	Next speaker: Mr Thomas Drozda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15053	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators at the gallery! As we have heard, the current revision is about significantly improving the user-friendliness of this instrument, the European Citizens' Initiative. In the future, for example, a free online collection system is to be provided by the Commission's European Citizens' Initiative organiser groups. In addition, support terms should also be possible through electronic signatures. If we are today in favour of improvements under the European Citizens' Initiative Act, we must not lose sight of why this issue is so important. Why citizens' initiatives are important is recognised by looking at concrete examples. I quote Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: “No one should be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.” – I guess everyone would say that we agree very quickly and easily. But the truth is – I am talking about the Causa Julian Assange – that European governments have watched in recent years just how that happened. Assange has revealed torture, was tortured himself and could be tortured in the USA. What, if not, should fall into my area of competence?, said UN Special Rapporteur Nils Melzer at the beginning of this year in an interview. In the same interview, he is shocking about how legal accusations against Assange were created, witness statements were manipulated, and Assange was taken the opportunity to defend himself. The interviews read like an indictment, first against Sweden and subsequently against all the states of Europe and the EU. Let us see and let us see what Assange has happened, then we also accept that every citizen and every citizen in Europe can do the same. If governments do wrong or willfully, it is necessary for Europe's people to rebel against it. Today, well over 400,000 people have signed a petition against extradition to the US. In the interests of our continent, our values and our human image, I hope that it will be much more and that today we can also get through to accept a large-scale request. If we accept today that Assange will be delivered, what do we accept tomorrow? What restriction of freedom of expression and civil rights is then the next step? Finally, I would like to remind you that it was an American president, Truman, who, in the background of the horrors of World War II, had the following sentence: If only one unchalled American who has not done anything wrong must be afraid to think freely and express his opinion openly, then the time has come for all Americans to be in danger. - Quote. Let us give Europe's citizens more opportunity not to live in fear and danger! I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Our request, which will be submitted by the government groups in the next few minutes, differs in two points: It is about the issue of release and the question and the possibility of non-delivery. That is exactly what is being decided in the European Parliament and what we are standing for. I would therefore very much like to vote in favour of this further request. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] [[12:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15233	This motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15265	Madam President. Mr. Kogler! – I have to get used to that first, but I can already do it! Minister! – Yes, anyway, instead of Kogler prefer stitch! – Instead of Kogler definitely! [[Vice Chancellor Kogler: Yes, if you prefer a stretch!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker as well as cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger: Are you sure?]] High house! The Fiery Missionaries are back in Austria. Maybe I can explain briefly, you might have read it: The issue is that it is obvious in planning and preparing to propose and enforce a ban on smoking in the host gardens and insanity. [[Abg. Hear: Such a fool! You're just saying that because of the chamber elections!]] When you think back a little, exactly five years: 2015 – that was also shortly before the election of the Chamber of Commerce – was promised by everyone here in the House: The total ban on smoking is not coming! – Next week there are business chamber elections again, and again everyone here in the house, especially the ÖVP, will say that a smoking ban will not come in the gastronomy and outrageous gardens. That is why we are making a motion for a resolution today on the sampling of the nail for the ÖVP. Then you can certainly agree that this will not happen, that there will be no smoking ban in shady gardens and host gardens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, if you know the militant splitter group around Mr Rockenbauer and Co, who have carried out this smokerbashing over the last decades, and their programme, you will also know that this demand has, of course, been in their programme for years. The risk that this will come with the new ÖVP Green government is relatively large, therefore I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Maybe I can say it again: ==References== November is the absolute ban on smoking, and – the insiders will know – there are very, very many operating types of sales decreases between 20 and 40 percent. There are and have been numerous closures, especially of traditional gastronomy companies. You can't deny this either from the Chamber of Commerce, which is there. The insiders know that, the gastronomy knows that. I believe that this was the absolutely wrong step. It does not suffer from the cabins, it also does not suffer from McDonald’s and Co, but the classic bezels, the classic innhouses, the night gastronomy, shishabars and similar more, because of this absolute smoking ban, of course, have quite massive sales losses and there are also closures to be recorded. There is a need to think again about rethinking that accordingly. What do we stand for? – That is, I believe, nothing new: We stand for the freedom of choice of citizens and entrepreneurs and we stand for a sensible and reasonable relationship between smokers and non-smokers. I would like to say briefly: I think it is high time to hunt the feverish missionaries who have been there and who have triggered this smoker war out of the country. We stand for the freedom of citizens, and I ask you to support them. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15458	The admissibility of this motion for a resolution is due only to the fact that in recent years we have developed a very generous and broad practice with regard to the content of negotiations. I am therefore going to allow him now, but I would like to make it clear again that this context must arise from a request and that of the honourable Member or those Members who or those who bring him in must also justify it. I will propose that the next presidential conference deal with this issue and the interpretation of the context of resolutions so that the border can perhaps be clarified again in the future. This motion for a resolution is therefore part of the debate and comes to the vote after the end of the debate. Mrs Astrid Rössler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15489	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The European Citizens' Initiative is a relatively young direct democratic instrument, compared to the experiences of Austria with popular desires that have existed in Austria since 1964. At European level, this is a relatively young instrument that has existed since 2011/2012. Experience has shown that the formal and, in part, the content barriers are currently too high. It is very welcome that this current decision reduces these formal barriers in order to facilitate access to this instrument. There was also this step in Austria. In 1981 the number of supporters and supporters was reduced to 100 000, half. It has been learned from experience that as a legislator or as a parliament it is not necessary to fear the direct democratic instruments, but rather, quite the contrary, to empower and encourage them. We owe a lot to this bourgeois, civil society commitment: a lot of valuable discussions, the development of standards, a lot in the environmental field, including social issues. We owe this debate and this voluntary commitment in truth but also a quality of the discussion which would otherwise not exist in many areas. With regard to environmental standards, it is the civil society organisations that have been NGOs that have pointed to misdevelopments that have discussed abuses, but which have also proposed solutions. It is precisely this quality of the debate and also the constructive proposals that we need. We should encourage them at all levels of social life and political debate and, of course, facilitate them in terms of content and form. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, the EU has brought us very valuable, quality improvements in raising standards, particularly in the environmental field in the form of the Aarhus Convention: access to information, access to legal protection, participation in environmental procedures – a very important quantum leap in environmental legislation, also as an impulse at the Austrian level – and the position of the party in the authorisation procedure; but also, in Austria, the instrument of environmental mediation in EIA procedures, unique worldwide. All of this is due to these initiatives and debates. I very much welcome the fact that today's step at European level has once again achieved such a small quantum leap. We have, as mentioned by my previous speaker, also at Austrian level, at local and regional level, with Agenda 21 a very valuable instrument that we should definitely improve, strengthen and further contribute. The guiding principle for sustainable development needs this debate at all levels, and today's legislative decision has achieved a further step.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15540	Next, Mr Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15561	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! The first partner for politics, for politicians, for the population, must be citizens, because the right is based on the people; therefore, it is very important to keep the principle of participation in particular for politicians if they want to make responsible policy. In 2012, the European Citizens' Initiative Act achieved a strengthening of participation. However, there are very high obstacles – a million European citizens from seven countries have to support these initiatives – and these obstacles result in few initiatives, so that participation is not lived up to what it is supposed to be. However, civil society has the opportunity to step on the feet of the European Commission. There are a number of topics – if you are talking about the meat of this European Citizens' Initiative – that may be future issues, such as the commitment to work-free Sunday or the possibility of introducing a financial transaction tax. Today, 2020, we see that this first European Citizens' Initiative Act is relatively halfhearted and toothless, which has already been mentioned by the previous speakers. That is why it was important and right to set up initiatives in 2015 in the framework of the evaluation. Austria has set up initiatives alongside other countries to say: It's a bit innovative! – The innovation is ahead of us. In the specific case, we need the law to be accompanied by national authorities so that implementation can also be ensured. Three points of this, in my opinion, of paralysed instruments – in which formal obstacles exist, and the collection of signatures is also very outdated – are being changed by the novelle today. The first point is the free online collection system, the second point is clarification and relief, and the third point is less important to us because the minimum age has been reduced to 16 years. High House, ladies and gentlemen, it must be important to me and us and the aim must be to increase the commitment of EU citizens to participation. However, it must also be important to us that participation in the EU legislative process continues to be facilitated and extended in the final effect. With this proposal for a law, we have in principle the possibility of facilitating it. It is a first step, but in my opinion this step is too little. Although it makes it easier for the European Commission to step on its feet, it does not help to get what we really want, a Europe for citizens. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15604	Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15625	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Citizens' participation, participation, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and, in my opinion, the rule of law are certainly not just undisputed, but, as we know, hard-fought rights in Europe, just as they are democratic foundations, which it is always necessary to defend, because they are not self-evident, so I understand the intention of Mr Drozda to make the request concerning Assange. You know, on Monday was the beginning of the process, and it caused international attention. Why? – Assange’s case is seen by many journalists, human rights activists and activists as a possible precedent to put pressure on and intimidate government-critical and investigative journalists. The Special Rapporteur on the torture of the United Nations Mr Melzer and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are also in danger of freedom of the press and of opinion. That is why we are saying: In view of the allegations raised in the ongoing Assange proceedings, it is also important for us to ensure existing legal protection mechanisms at national and international level, and to submit a resolution in the course of this debate: [[Quoted print version removed]] It would be an important sign – in fact, I give you the right – if this request were to be followed by as many here as possible. I am of the opinion that a request is more far-reaching if as many in a Parliament not only join it, but if this request is indeed supported by the majority. In this sense, I call on the NEOS, but also on the SPÖ, to join this request by the ÖVP and the Greens. Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[12:49]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e15764	This motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly put in place. He's negotiating and he's going to be in the same position. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. That is what we are going to vote on. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 43 of the supplements. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who give the draft law an appropriate sign. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. In this way we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the introduction of the legal instrument of the People's Initiative. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Drozda, Mr Scherak, Mr Kassinger, Mr President, on the promotion of civil participation in European policy, the strengthening of fundamental rights, the release of Julian Assange from prison. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? [[Abg. Easy Peace: That doesn't seem to be clear!]] Since Parliament's management says that it is difficult to find out exactly now, I use the opportunity to ask two scribes to make a count of votes. – Mrs Steinacker and Mrs Ecker, I would ask you to count the votes. [[The writers Ecker and Steinacker make the poll.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: (in the direction of ÖVP) No one needs to come in during the vote!]] [[Abg. Krainer: How many were these now? That's where we have to subtract two!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Deputies Lopatka and Wöginger enter the meeting room and go to their places.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Well go! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] – The counting has already been carried out. There's still control. [[Abg. Krainer: (wise in the direction of ÖVP) The two are not to be counted!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Minus four!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a vote. I ask for patience, even if the vote takes a few minutes longer. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, will they be counted or not?]] [[Call the ÖVP:For sure!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] – The scribes told me that the vote counting is complete. I've got the result here on the note, there's only one control left. The scribes decide that they will give me the result. [[Abg. Drozda: The Wöginger too late in the vote, that has already happened!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: It was about pensions!]] [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of ÖVP) There comes again who!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: They are becoming more and more of the ÖVP!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Still count three times, then all blacks are there!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is important for us that, even if it takes a little time to complete these voting procedures, we do not have any ambiguities afterwards. Since the difference in the result is still a few votes, there is no need for a major debate to be held on or off because the difference is greater. [[Abg. Kickl: Is already a principle question!]] The motion for a resolution was rejected by 91 votes in favour and 71 votes in favour. That is to say, the motion for a resolution has not found a majority. We now come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues, on ‘No to ban smoking in host gardens of local gastronomy’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is easy to see: That is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on 'The respect, protection and guarantee of freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Europe'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This too is good to see: This has been adopted unanimously. [[9/E]] [[12:58:08]] 3rd. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment No 176/A(E) by Mr Christian Lausch, Members of Parliament, on better training in the field of safety (44d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16051	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Christian Lausch is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16081	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Unfortunately, the motion for a resolution by God does not find a majority today – that would be an important matter. Since 2006, police leadership at the University of Applied Sciences in Vienna Neustadt has been taking place very successfully in the area of security. I would like to use this motion for a resolution - I believe that this is legitimate if we are here in the House to use extra-participality in the field of justice, and if we always want to strengthen the judicial guard, to help it - to give the same rights to the judicial guard. Unfortunately, there is no majority for this. There is a self-employed motion for a resolution of all parties, which basically says the same thing. The motion for a resolution I have tabled says: “The Federal Government is invited to improve the training cooperation in the field of security by allowing public-law officials in the security area of the judicial guard, access to the training offer of the Faculty of Security at the FH Wiener Neustadt.” So there is now nothing about the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Staff, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice. Then one wanted to have inside: to involve in the discussions. That is what this joint motion now says. The discussions will also clarify which training opportunities already exist in the framework of training cooperation can also be made available to the judicial authorities. There is a little bad feeling for me again, because the judicial guard has been trying this for many years, and it has always been watered down. It has been said that you have to talk to the Punishment Academy, the so-called Stak, maybe there is also an offer. That's what they wanted, but it's been years when you've been going through it now. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am not very happy with this amended proposal - I am on it - because it is not as concrete as my original resolution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think it is important for the security executive to bind a security package as a whole, there are still some things in the arrogance: the creation of security assistants; more recognition for the judiciary; Renamed the judicial guard analogous to the Kiab, which now means financial police – a change to the judicial guard into judicial police – would be urgently necessary in order to raise recognition of the importance of this professional group; Definition; protection of privacy; No to any fantasies of license boards at the uniforms of judicial and police officers; strengthening personal rights; financial improvements; Heavy worker regulation – I think executive service is service to all of us, to safety, is heavy work with night duty, weekend service, shift and change, holiday services –; Agglomeration allowance; 50-plus staff regulations – it will be recognized that staff over 50 years of age who have been in office for 20 to 30, 35, 40 years will no longer be able to stand on the front line, or that there will also have to be their own internal service regulations and so on; Police training as a public service relationship. In this context, because there is still much to do for the new Federal Government – the old Federal Government has thought about all this with our participation, has put it all on track, in part the ÖVP has now forgotten again – let us remind them again with a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call on the National Council, across all parties, to commit itself to the executive, to security, to the police, to the judicial service and to support this motion for a resolution. I thank you very much for your attention. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16258	The application was explained in the main guidelines, it is just distributed, it is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Michaela Steinacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16286	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Minister of the Interior! I'm... Mr Lauss has just heard the statements made by Mr Lauss, but I think that if I take seriously and evaluate the discussion we have had in the Committee, Mr Lauss will obviously know exactly why all the parties together have tabled a self-employed motion for a resolution on the subject. The aim is for the judicial guards to be honoured in their work and to have opportunities to make careers in the future. Making a career means that the judicial guard is also perceived and taken seriously as a guard with its specialties. That means that the judicial guard is special – Mr Lausch, you should know that more precisely! –, has tasks other than the police. Therefore, one cannot easily make copy-and-paste in training. The Minister of the Interior has said quite clearly, of course, that he is ready to cooperate with the Justice Department and to introduce a training at the University of Applied Sciences in Vienna Neustadt. Of course, the judicial guards should have the opportunity to pursue a career course in the future, which may at some point also end in training at Bachelor's level. Of course, synergies should be lifted, but, of course, the judicial authorities have far fewer members than the police force, but of course there are modules in the framework of modular training – as we suggest – which can be made in common, which are completely identical, because it is about general security issues on which our judicial guard is regularly trained. In addition, there are specialties, because the judicial guards have no internal service as such, wherever they do desk work, they are permanently exposed to threats in the detention centre. They must be protected by their special clothing, they must be protected in particular by the possibilities they have to separate aggressive inmates accordingly and deal with the security of their own persons accordingly. At the end of the day, this means that the judicial guards as the third security column of Austria are all there for us, next to the police and next to the federal army. Ladies and gentlemen, cooperation is a step in the right direction, there will be this training cooperation. It's been remembered, already under our Federal Minister Moser. When he was still responsible for justice, he naturally tried to lift synergies. We are all ready to lift them together. For the direct response of the Federal Government and, in particular, of Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is responsible for the public service: It is at the end of the day that another assessment of the positions needs to be carried out, and I believe, the Vice-President, that we have already agreed on it in the government programme, of course, is ready. In this sense: For the judicial guard, for a safe Austria, a modern training! We all thank all of our judicial guards for their great work every day.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16334	Mrs Mag. Selma Yildirim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16358	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present report of the Constitutional Committee deals with training and training. in the field of security, in particular by providing better training for judicial guards. To this end, I must insist that the judicial guards make an extremely important contribution to security both inside and outside the judicial institutions. Despite a clientele that is becoming increasingly difficult, not only is safe preservation guaranteed, but there is also the legal mandate to ensure resocialisation. These are particularly challenging tasks, especially under the framework conditions currently given to these staff. It is in principle gratifying that today's decision is taking a step in the right direction, with the aim of at least partial improvement of the situation for judicial guards. The Bachelor's degree course of police leadership at the University of Vienna Neustadt is open only to police officers and there is nothing comparable for officers in the security field of the judicial guard. In a very objective debate of all parties, the original resolution motion was jointly improved in the Constitutional Committee. Inter-ministerial talks are now intended to enable a re-evaluation of career paths for judicial guards. The aim is also to clarify which existing training opportunities can be made available to the judicial authorities in the framework of cooperation, i.e. a common guideline on how improvements in the field of justice can be made. The ministries involved are responsible for this clearly formulated unanimous decision-making in the National Council and are now in debt. Despite this gratifying success, however, it must already be recalled at this point that there are still quite other problems in the judicial guard. The already promised and actually decided increase of 200 judicial guards is still not there. An extraordinary human tension in the judicial institutions is insurmountable. I am therefore submitting today a self-employed motion for a resolution on which the demand of additional 200 judicial guards is on a subject. In Austria, it has been common for more than decades that there has been a corresponding increase in the staff of the judiciary in the area of police, in relation to 10 : 1. So if, for example, 2 000 police officers have been more decided, there have also been 200 members of the judicial board – with good reason, because there are more police officers in the service, as a result, more enlightened crime cases and usually more inmates in the judicial institutions. The Black and Blue Federal Government has deviated from this sensible principle and has therefore contributed significantly to the current extraordinary human tension in the field of judicial guard. It should not be forgotten that in the summer of last year a resolution was adopted by a large majority to include judicial guards in the heavy workers' regime. The legal implementation of this parliamentary promise is still lacking. There are still enough other issues to be discussed in the field of justice, but I do not come here for reasons of time. The resolution which we are discussing today, with the aim of providing useful continuing vocational training for judicial guards, is, in any case, very much in favour of my group, and we are delighted to see We agree that a common procedure could be reached here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16419	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16443	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We are in Vienna, the judicial institution Vienna-Mittersteig. It's Sunday night, half past seven, everything is slowly preparing for the night shift. The guard hopes for a quiet night before the next tiring week begins. Suddenly, it smells like smoke. There are already flames from the windows: Fire alarm. Fire in the judicial centre means the highest risk. Fire causes the instinct to run away, but that's exactly what the inmates of a judicial institution cannot do. You can't tell them: Keep your peace! Go to the next emergency exit! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Go fast, but push You don't! - They're locked up for good reason. Fear makes itself wide, panic threatens to break out, there is the highest risk of life. So what do you do? What the officials did on the middle platform this evening was just impressive: They have alarmed the fire brigade and then entered the intoxicated department, where the flames were beating out of the windows, where the smoke bites in the eyes and burns in the lungs. They took out the inmates entrusted to them, took them out of danger, took them into another judicial centre, and then they put themselves in safety. They're heroes! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Sir.]] We want these people and their colleagues to be able to make a career in this so important profession. What we decide today is the first step forward. At the moment, it is the case that the rise opportunities within the system are manageable. For senior executives, we want to enable training at academic level at the University of Applied Sciences Vienna Neustadt and to create further qualifications in criminal execution management. This qualification would not compromise national and international developments in comparable management positions in the field of education. It would take sustainable account of the professional requirements, make the professional image of senior judicial officers more attractive to future stakeholders and, last but not least, significantly lift the image of the judicial security officers. The aim is to ensure that senior executive staff with a Bachelor's degree degree or a corresponding training course will be able to apply again for highest management positions in the future. Our system of fines has the aim of allowing convicted persons to return to being valuable members of society after their imprisonment. This requires well-trained and motivated staff in the judicial guard. The employees have gone in advance with commitment and motivation, now it is up to us to look after them and to create higher training paths and career opportunities for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16500	Col. Dr. Johannes Margreiter has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16525	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear spectators! Why do we block people in Austria? – In times when a preventive form of detention is discussed, also known as arbitrariness or security, this is not quite an unrivalled question, as seems to me. We block people who have committed injustice or are in serious suspicion of wrongdoing. The emphasis is on this, and it should remain, ladies and gentlemen. People who have committed crimes are being detained. That is to say, over a limited period of time, which the law lays down and the judge assigns precisely, personal freedom is severely and decisively restricted. Why do we do this as a society? – § 20 of the Criminal Enforcement Act carries out the purpose of the execution. I quote: "The execution of the sentences of liberty is intended to help the convicted to adjust life to the righteous and needs of Community life and to prevent them from pursuing harmful tendencies. The execution shall also indicate the unvalue of the conduct underlying the conviction.” – We see, our criminal law does not end with the judgment of the judge or judge. The judgment begins only with the actual work, a work which I believe is far too little attention and appreciation in public perception. I am therefore very grateful that there is this initiative on which we can speak today in the House. On average, an inmate in Austria is 23.7 months, almost two years in prison. This makes it clear what enormous responsibility lies in the Austrian judicial institutions and the judicial guards. With their work, they perform an important daily service to our society. On behalf of our group, I would like to thank some 3 200 officials of the judicial board very much for this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is the task of the judicial guards to help more than 9 000 people who are currently in prison in Austria, the legal purpose of punishment, the resocialisation – and this is the main aim: it is about resocialisation – to break through, and that under certain very, very difficult conditions. The framework conditions are quite different today than perhaps 20 or 30 years ago: the high proportion of foreign-speaking, different religious beliefs, different cultural backgrounds. I have just visited the Court of Justice in Innsbruck in the last week and have experienced the scale of the challenges faced by judicial guards. In order to meet these challenges and to be able to meet them, it is necessary to provide the best possible training for this staff and the best possible training opportunities. The more quality training and training, the better the officials are prepared for their activities in the interests of our community, and therefore we support this initiative as well. Finally, I would like to appeal to the Federal Government, in view of the budget now being drawn up and the report of the Court of Auditors published last week on the execution of sanctions and measures: Good training alone will not be enough to improve the overall situation in criminal execution. There's much more to do. In addition to the long-overdue improvements for the judicial system in the field of civil service law – I am just saying the words: enormous number of overtimes, a lot of sick people – it is also urgently necessary to implement budget resources in order to be able to implement long-term overdue reforms, for example in the implementation of measures. For this purpose, a complete reform has long been in the drawers of the Ministry of Justice, and this is finally to be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who says the rule of law must also finance it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16582	The next speaker is Mr Lukas Brandweiner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16606	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! If we talk today about the members of the judicial guard, we will deal with people who make a significant and important contribution to the security of the Austrian population. With us in the Waldviertel, we have the second largest prison in all of Austria with the Stein Rechtsanstalt, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the employees, as well as their colleagues throughout Austria, for the valuable contribution they make to our society. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In order to maintain this high quality of security in the judicial institutions, it is important to create good opportunities for further education and training in the future – that is where we agree. It was proposed by the FPÖ to enable the judicial staff to conduct the six-semestered study of police management at the FH Wiener Neustadt. I must say that it is in principle to welcome the use of synergies in terms of costs, and of course we are also in favour of this, but we must not forget that there are specific requirements in the judicial system. That is why it is important for us to use synergies, to take advantage of individual modules, but also to offer special modules aimed at the judicial authorities. That is why we have also reformed the motion for a resolution and made it our own, to which all the parties agree. There is a need for good coordination between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Service, because only in this way can we find the best solution for colleagues in the field of justice, in the judicial guard and thus also for security in Austria. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the political groups for agreeing to this motion for a resolution together and for putting it together. I believe that this is important, and only in this way can we make progress in the field of security as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16646	Mr Magnifice has now been reported to speak. Georg Bürstmayr. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16670	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the joint motion for a resolution: If experience from police work can flow into the judicial service and vice versa, if organisations can learn from each other on this path – well; if possible careers and employment biographies become more diverse and these professions become more attractive – well; if existing structures, and they are not very free, for as many and as optimal as possible – then it is good. But what we should pay attention to is that for good reason we have to deal with two different entities, with two different bodies, with two very different tasks. The task of the police – Mr. Innenminister, you will agree with me – is essentially also to contribute to the fact that we have security in a free society. The task of the Justice Department is to help ensure that we have a good penitentiary in closed institutions. Whoever throws this into a pot, he pretends that our free society is a closed institution. I would like to come briefly to the independent motion for a resolution by the FPÖ, which surprises me a little, because – and now the one I wanted to address is not there – in the last legislative period, the FPÖ has appointed the Minister of the Interior. Half of what is in it would have been able to implement it for 17 months, and now it demands it from the new Federal Government, and the other half – and this is only briefly noted – stands for concept history, pardon, for concepts from the 19th century. ==References== [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Abg. Lausch: What have you already implemented?]] This represents a backward, authoritarian picture of police and judicial forces, and for that, ladies and gentlemen, we are green, this coalition is not available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16715	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 44 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 176/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on “better opportunities for training in the security field” attached to the Committee’s report 44 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. [[Some SPÖ representatives first sit down and then rise from their seats again.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: ( towards SPÖ) What now? Are you with me?]] – This is unanimously accepted. [[10/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the "Free Trade Package". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:28:30]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the report of the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection on the activity of the labour inspection in 2017 and 2018 (III-68/45 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16784	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16815	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators here at our gallery and at home in front of the screens! In the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, we have discussed the agenda item report on the activity of the labour inspection in 2017 and 2018 very intensively. In particular, the inspectors have considered the steering times, the so-called rental work and the risks of carcinogenic agents in detail. They have found that there has been a positive trend in the field of accidents at work during this period. It has also been found that the employees of workers' redundancies companies, the so-called temporary workers' companies, have not experienced an increase in the number of accidents at work. It is particularly important to note that the picture carried outside could not be confirmed. All in all, a significant improvement could be noted. Unfortunately, despite the happy report, the members of the Committee of the SPÖ have not been able to leave a good hair on entrepreneurship. In principle, they put entrepreneurship under the general suspicion that they do not behave properly towards their employees. We, the EIA, believe that advice before punishing is a sensible preventive measure, and this is also reflected in this report. The work inspectorates and AUVA have invested a lot of time in discussions, and the result is quite positive. Entrepreneurships have gladly adopted and implemented the proposed measures to prevent accidents at work, as confirmed in this report. What I personally lack in this report is the exact figures of the federal states, such as the situation regarding accidents at work in Carinthia compared to Vorarlberg. Furthermore, I would also be interested in how often an accident at work happens because of an employee or an employee's carelessness. I can tell you from practice: When I say to my employees: Please do not go to a beer box to pick up something from above, but please use the ladders for it!, then this is often not done for convenience. Another example of gastronomy was mentioned. It is often asked by entrepreneurs: Please do not wear open shoes or even flip flops at work!, but also there is often not heard and it is only later that an employee does not appear properly dressed in the workplace. But if something happens, then the entrepreneur is usually guilty and less often appeals to the personal responsibility of the employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan.]] What I am particularly pleased with is that a 20 percent improvement in the controls on steering times could be observed. The close cooperation between labour inspectorates and transport companies, such as railways, trams, cable cars, aviation, shipping, bus and transport companies, shows that there was also a significant improvement by consulting before punishment could be achieved. Safety rules in the field of transport play a too important role, and cooperation between both sides is very important and correct. Finally, I would like to say that Austria is one of the best working countries in the European Union. This is mainly because Austria has a very good social system. Unemployment benefits, as well as sickness benefit, mother care paid and parental care, also protect people from exclusion and poverty around employment. [[Abg. Keck: Who did this?- Oh, my God!]] All this enables us, the entrepreneurship in Austria, together with our employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16857	Mr Josef Muchitsch has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e16892	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Today we held a very intense debate on the corona virus; it was at the heart of the debate. This is a new disease that needs to be specifically opposed – closed and shared. Now we are discussing the report of the labour inspection of the years 2017 and 2018. This report also deals with diseases – occupational diseases and fatal accidents at work. These diseases and fatal accidents have existed since the existence of humanity. I am very glad that we, as SPÖ, have put this report here today, because all people in Austria have a right to know: How does the labour inspection work? Why is it so important for this country, for all employees? But where are there any improvements? I would like to thank all workers in the field of labour inspection, both inside and outside, for the work they have done in the interests of the health and safety of people at work – many, many thanks. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Gödl.]] But now to a few figures: Mrs Kirchbaumer, it is not a question of a general suspicion, but of figures which clearly show that there are legal violations at every second workplace! It is about figures that clearly document that there have been 94,906 violations in 2018, and it is about numbers that document that, on the other hand, only 934 criminal charges have been filed. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: But much less than before!]] If you look at the occupational diseases – 1 106 occupational diseases were registered by the labour inspection – if an estimated 1,800 deaths are due annually – due to cancers due to work with dangerous substances, due to work in connection with asbestos – and if for three years there are also the first heat deaths on construction sites: You can't move that away, you have to look at it, Mrs. Federal Minister, and don't look away – just as you do with the Coronavirus! If you look at the increasing number of fatal accidents at work – from 60 in 2016 to 83 in 2018 – you have to ask yourself what the new Federal Government is doing about it. We have looked at this; very briefly at three measures: Advice before punishment: More advice from punishment does not automatically mean more protection for workers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Checks are indispensable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] Checks are just as indispensable as penalties. Punishment is also indispensable. If the European company survey – not we, but the European company survey, your representation! . clearly shows that the main motive of Austrian employers to ensure safety and health at work, which are existing legislation, is how important it is that we have legislation. If one believes to achieve an improvement in the situation with awareness-raising and voluntaryness, one must say that is the same as with the requirement of belts and road traffic regulations: As long as it was voluntary, many did not hook up with the belt, and when the belt requirement was introduced, the safety was there. The debureaucratisation of protection rules must not be caused by the protection of workers; we are against it. On the last point, red tape when re-occupied: Mrs. Federal Minister for Labour Inspectorate, the staff gap is growing. There are more and more employees and fewer and fewer external labour inspectors. The International Labour Organization, the International Labour Organization, makes it clear that in those countries where industry is strongly developed, at least 10,000 workers are to face at least one labour inspector. In other words, there is clearly an under-employment in Austria, because 303 labour inspectors are available for 3.4 million workers responsible for labour inspection. [[Abg. Hörl:... those at the Stäger...!]] 303 Labour Inspectors! The fact is that we need to catch up, for this reason I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In conclusion, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: All here in the room are co-responsible as MEPs and therefore as legislators when it comes to sufficient human resources and adequate measures in the field of occupational safety and labour inspection. Each one of you here bears responsibility when it comes to the daily safety and health of more than 3.4 million workers at work. Voices Please submit our request! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17042	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17069	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The report on labour inspection clearly shows that, although the absolute number of accidents at work has increased, it has fallen by percentage, because there have been a lot more employees. It is very gratifying that the conditions are obviously getting better and better, so that there are fewer and fewer accidents at work. That's something very positive. I also believe that the work of the labour inspectors is important both for the employer and for the employee, because it also helps the employer to see if he does it properly, and especially because it also filters out black sheep that do not want to comply with any legal provisions at all or try to circumvent them. We discussed this for a very long time in the committee, and the Minister then answered my question of whether, like the AMS, there were attacks on labour inspectors. We can all perhaps remember the case in mid-January in Vienna when an AMS employee was beaten by a job seeker or by a customer of the AMS was seriously injured. Unfortunately, such cases occur again and again. We always hear the regrets of the competent ministers or ministries in the media, but in fact, nothing does happen. In other words, many employees are in fact without protection. In this context, I would like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The employees work for all of us, and I think they also have the right to receive appropriate protection. That is why I ask for approval. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:41]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17231	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and properly implemented and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Markus Koza. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17259	Mr President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The Labour Inspectorate is responsible for verifying that workers' protection is actually observed in the establishments. The report is all the more exciting because it is a good measure of degree, namely, on the one hand, to what extent the work and work of the labour inspectorate actually works, on the other hand, but also for what challenges we face in the professional and working world as regards new occupational risks, new health risks. As a result of these results, you can draw wonderful conclusions or ask for policies to be implemented and taken into account. In fact, an interesting result for me is that the famous advice before punishing the working inspectorate's operation has long been determined over long distances. This also shows the numbers: For example, the advisory activities of the labour inspectorates increased significantly from 2017 to 2018, from about 33 700 consultations to over 38 000. During the same period, the number of controls and, of interest, the criminal charges fell, from 1,282 in 2017 to 934 in 2018. Accordingly, the penalty payments have also fallen: The volume has almost halved – from 2.7 million euros to 1.5 million euros. That is, it is obvious that advice before punishment works, because I do not assume that the labour inspectors are testing worse, controlling worse than before. It is also gratifying to see the drop in the overall accident rate, although only a small one: In 2018, there were 283 accidents per 10,000 employees. This is still too much, but it also clearly shows: Workers' protection saves life, workers' protection significantly reduces accident hazards and injury risks, and workers' protection helps employers to comply with their statutory care obligations. One point that is very important to me personally, because I think he still has too little attention in the whole discussion: Workers' protection actually ensures fair competition because workers' protection applies to all, because it lays down general minimum standards and prevents dumping, non-compliance with protection provisions. In my opinion, this aspect is far from being of great importance. However, what the report also shows is that there are new challenges: New ones are added to the old health risks at work. Professionals are changing – as are health risks. On the one hand, the number of mental diseases increased due to stress, labour pressure, longer working hours; it increases the load and health risk caused by cancer-induced substances. The report also shows that the level of employment in labour inspectorates has remained almost the same for years, with increasing numbers of employees and increasing numbers of workplaces. Of course, it is a question that we have to ask ourselves, if we want to expand our advice more strongly before punishing – and, of course, consulting is significantly more resource-intensive, good advice simply needs more staff – not to consider how human resources development in the labour inspectorates can be designed in such a way that they actually meet these challenges. I would also like to comment briefly on the SPÖ's request that the labour inspectorate be increased from currently 303 to 350 people over the next two years. In 2012 the labour inspectorate had 312 employees, today it has 303. In 2012, the Ministry of Labour had a Social-Democratic Minister, and since then the number of labour inspectors, despite rising employment, has unfortunately not necessarily gone up, but it has reduced. It is already the question why – in the case of increasing numbers of employees – initiatives have not already been set by the then Social Democratic Labour Ministers, therefore I am unfortunately almost unable to agree on this request a certain form of – well – hypocrisy. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Right!]] Of course, this does not mean – I have clearly stressed – that we need to look at the matter with the number of employees in the labour inspectorates, because, on the one hand, the people working there need a relief because, on the other hand, it also needs appropriate resources for consulting when it is expanded. We will look at this, I am sure that the Minister will also take care of the subject, and we will discuss it in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Last but not least: The expertise of the labour inspectorate, which is always clearly expressed in the reports, must be used well. Accordingly, the labour inspectorate, labour law and, of course, labour protection law must be further developed, so that the labour inspectorate for workers, as well as for businesses, creates a real added value, an added value that not only protects life and health, but also ensures fair competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17298	Mr Koza, as usual in this House, for the accusation of "sacrifice", I give a call for order. [[Abg. Ottenschlager: That was very strict now!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP:Streng!]] Mrs Federal Minister Mag.a (FH) Christine Aschbacher has now come to speak on the issue of an opinion. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17351	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear Seers! I would now like to take the opportunity to comment on the report. But I would like to start by saying: Thanks to all the experts who have worked on drawing up the activity report of the Labour Inspectorate 2017 and 2018. Thanks also to the team of the entire labour law section and the central labour inspectorate for the use and daily engagement! I look forward to further good cooperation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The labour inspectorate controls compliance with on-the-spot workers' and workers' protection rules and conducts consultations. It consists of 16 regional labour inspectorates, the transport labour inspectorate and the labour inspectorate for construction work. The first line is given to the central labour inspectorate. I would also like to address some of the points that we have discussed in committee with the members of the National Council: For the aforementioned personnel situation: It is true that when there were savings, there were these on the inside and not on the outside. We currently have 401 employees in the labour inspectorate. For labour inspectors, the number of persons rose to 303. At present, there are also three calls for tenders, as work inspectors are re-occupied. There are existing protective measures in the labour inspectorate, which are also regularly evaluated and developed to protect our employees. The staff measures also include targeted and efficient work planning as well as the setting of priority actions. I would like to focus on this, since he was already in the Committee on Employment. In the context of this advice and control, 214 visits were carried out to the extent to which the statutory requirements are actually implemented in the case of workers' leave. The result is a very positive one, because it has been found that the remaining employees have the same health and safety measures as the regular staff. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The initial suspicion of unequal treatment has not been confirmed. A positive picture can also be seen if we look at the figures of the report on accidents at work and occupational diseases. The relative risk of accident has continued to fall following the long-term trend and is at a minimum value with 283 accidents per 10,000 insured persons. The number of recognised occupational diseases also decreased slightly compared to the previous year, from 1 186 in 2017 to 1 106 in 2018. Since 1974, accidents at work have been generally declining – a trend that is pleasantly continuing. At this point, I would like to thank all those involved, including the institutions, especially our employees, our companies, our labour inspectorates and accident insurance companies and the representatives of the interests which are working daily to protect our workers. That's where we're on a right and good path together. On the development of controls and deliberations as well as criminal charges: The number of checks decreased by 2 per cent, while the number of consultations increased by 13 per cent, from 33 746 consultations to 38 121 consultations. In 2017, we only had to pay for 2% of the checks and in 2018 only more than 1.5 percent of the controls really had to pay for criminal charges. The figures therefore show that fewer criminal charges were necessary in comparison with 2017 to 2018 and that the advice provided by our labour inspectorates helps. In general, the number of criminal charges has also fallen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Weratschig.]] Now, when we look into the future: I would like to implement measures for debureaucratisation in the sense of both employees and entrepreneurs in Austria, because we want to continue to relieve instead of burdening. We will set up an interministerial working group involving the social partners to identify and identify red tape barriers. However, I would like to say that the standard for changes is the current protection rules. However, it also needs the necessary further development – as has already been mentioned by colleagues – and it is necessary to reconsider obsolete provisions. Of course, the existing obligations must also be subject to regular verification of their effectiveness. In addition, it is also a special concern to me – I know both sides, both the employee and the entrepreneur, – that in the field of labour inspection we are increasing on the principle of Put advice before punishment, because the aim of labour inspection must be to punish misbehaviors, but at best not to let them come by supporting entrepreneurs to work in accordance with rules. The last consequence is the safe and effective protection of our workers. Yes, you see, we have a lot to do, and we can work hard together on positive changes. Therefore: Let's start and do our best to make life easier for 4.3 million Austrians! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17435	Member of the European Parliament. Michael Hammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17460	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are discussing today the report on the activity of the labour inspection 2017/2018, as this issue has not been completed in the Committee. I am now glad that we are discussing the report in plenary, as I am preparing my last speech on it on 28 November. ==References====External links== At that time, the discussion was held slightly differently, as the report was discussed at the time. We have discussed the fact that the basic philosophy set out by the then Minister Alois Stöger was not the right one, because that was bureaucratic access. At the time, we discussed a minimum case law, so the requirement that something should always be raised. That was the reason we discussed here at the time. I believe that the work of labour inspection – and that has already been said by the colleagues – is incredibly important to keep the high level of labour protection that we have in Austria. I also take this away from the report; the preface to labour inspection is also aimed at this high level of employment protection in Austria. I think we can be proud that this is confirmed by the labour inspection itself. I believe we are all aware that safety and health of workers is the highest and most important asset and that we are all called together to ensure that through appropriate controls and improvements. However, it is always necessary – and the Federal Minister has explained this quite clearly – to protect the workers and not the horrors of the workers. The main focus is on driving or exaggerating bureaucracy. It is therefore necessary to debureaucratise precisely in this area. Thus, the companies and therefore also the workers should not be harassed by excessive controls and an outline of formal provisions, but should contribute to a real improvement in the sense of the workers through service and advice. The motto of consulting instead of punishing always applies; and the figures of labour inspection also show quite impressively that the number of consultations has increased significantly and therefore the number of controls and penalties has also decreased accordingly. Above all, through information and consultation, deficits should not arise at all, as the Federal Ministers also said. There is therefore a need for preventive action. I have already mentioned the false philosophy that the SPÖ has represented in the past, when she has still put the minister. I think that's exactly the opposite of what we want. It is gratifying that the number of accidents at work is declining, that the number of penalties is falling. Of course, every accident at work and every occupational disease is one too much, but yet we have a long-standing trend that goes in the right direction. It is necessary to continue to do so accordingly. It was also mentioned: It is also necessary to look at all of these provisions in terms of active substances, as far as weather-extreme is concerned. That is clear, and you will do so accordingly. However, this is always to be seen as a service both to workers and to businesses. Where there must be a dispute and where to punish, this is happening, Mr Muchitsch. There are clear rules and no voluntaryity. Where there is something to display or to be punished, it is also done. However, it is easy to avoid, stop and make concrete improvements through advice and information. I believe that the report shows a clear and good development. The path is to be continued, just as the Federal Government and the Federal Ministers are planning to do. It's going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17515	The honourable Member is speaking. Christian Drobits. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17539	Mr President. Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Well, the diagnosis of cancer is a diagnosis that many people in Austria are confronted with. 400,000 people live with cancer diagnosis and 40,000 are added annually. WHO says that within the next 20 years – by 2040 – there will be a doubling of cancer diagnosis and cancer rates. The report sets out on the topic of cancer-producing active substances an estimated number of 1,800 deaths in the period 2017/2018 due to the work-related handling of cancer-producing substances. Each or every single dead person is one or one too much. It is therefore very important to mention that it is not only a matter of consulting not only about consulting but also about imposing sanctions if there are no measures to regulate the treatment of these cancer-producing agents accordingly. Mrs Minister, the Committee meeting also made it clear that the existing limit values are not sufficient. We have limit values that are far above those in Germany. We have the TRK limit values, not the risk-based limit values – it is time to introduce these limit values on behalf of the many deaths. It is also time, Mrs Minister, to finally implement the EU Directive with the list of individual work decisions that we should have introduced by 17.1.2020. It's time to say clearly that health is ahead of profit. I also call on you to make it clear that AUVA will remain responsible for these work-related cancers and expand its scope of activity by them. I also think it will be important to maintain AUVA as a partner for exactly this activity financially. In this sense: This report has been very well done, and I would like to thank the labour inspectorate. I am already looking forward to the next report on whether the introduction of the 12-hour working day will lead to the need for action, as the report clearly shows: An increased number of hours will have an increased impact on workers. This report will be necessary. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17576	Mr Ralph Schalmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17600	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The work inspector's been following me since my childhood, I have to confess here now. It's been following me since my childhood because my parents were small entrepreneurs. They had a small textile processing company with up to 60 employees in their best time, and the work inspectorate was regularly with us on site. Accordingly, there were some conversations in the evening when you were sitting together at dinner, where my parents talked about it: Did you watch out for it anyway? Not that they're coming back to control us, and, and, and, and. But one thing has always happened at the end of the day: Although these visits were unpleasant because unannounced, these visits were certainly not always fine, but at the end of the day there was almost never a punishment. I mean, we're talking about the eighties and nineties. There has almost never been a penalty, because the labour inspectors – even then – were very well aware that there are quite challenges that you can't just shave everyone over a comb; at that time my parents were also helped as entrepreneurs. The principle of consultation before punishment is nothing new. This is in fact something I have ever and again experienced – already in the 1980s and 1990s. It is therefore all the better if the principle has been pursued in such a way that it is quite clear from the figures and from this report. One thing is clear: Meanwhile, the challenges have changed. The challenges for entrepreneurs, but also for workers, have become more complex. The appropriate protection measures, all the laws and regulations have, of course, become a lot more. Accordingly, the work of a labour inspectorate has become all the more important – with the aim of supporting entrepreneurs, but of course also workers and helping them at the end of the day. I therefore welcome the report. It's true, in one I join: The 12-hour day has not yet been mentioned and has not yet been evaluated. We'll see that next time, that might be a bit more exciting discussion. In total, it is a good report, and I am glad that the figures are going in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17642	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-68 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on the increase of labour inspectors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on “Protective measures for employees of the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Market Service”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:06:50]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 264/A(E) by Mr Mag. Verena Nussbaum, colleagues on measures to improve working conditions for people with disabilities; and on the motion for a resolution 185/A(E) by Mr Fionadier, Mr Bed, Mr Bed, Mr Enright, on the implementation of the public prosecutor's recommendations for a more inclusive labour market (46 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17734	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kira Grünberg has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17764	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have a request today which is supported by all the political groups represented in Parliament. I am pleased to be spokesperson for people with disabilities of the new People's Party, but especially as those affected, that we are working together on the important issue of inclusion and equality of people with disabilities beyond the borders of the party. The proposal addresses three points which are also reflected in the current government programme: The first is to determine the incapacity of people with disabilities only after a longer trial period. In addition, the wide range of support services offered by the AMS and the Social Ministry Service will be used. By involving professional expertise in advance, we give people with disabilities a better chance to take a foothold on the first labour market with support and thereby gain their own income. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second point relates to people with disabilities working in day-to-day structures. Together with stakeholders and the countries, implementation steps are to be taken to include people working in day-to-day structures in statutory health and pension insurance. In Austria, 24 000 people with disabilities are currently working in a day structure. However, they are in no working relationship, they only receive a pocket money. Therefore, these people are not self-insuranced and pension insurance, but are still insured with their parents at the moment. They are treated as children in this respect, although they have long grown up. That is what we want to amend with this proposal. People with disabilities have the right to full participation in all aspects of life and must therefore be supported accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Now on the third and final point of the request, the ‘Elaboration of federal uniform framework conditions for ‘personal assistance’ and the examination of the creation of an inclusion fund’. In Austria, personal assistance in the workplace and personal assistance in all other areas is still being distinguished. Personal assistance at the workplace is already regulated in a uniform manner; this also applies to the implementation of personal assistance in all other areas of life. Neither the place of residence nor the type of disability may decide whether someone in Austria gets personal assistance or not. People with disabilities need the security to be able to self-determine their lives, as do all the other people who have no disability. Finally, I would like to stress how important it is to implement these steps for us people with disabilities, because the demands have been in place for decades, and I think they are more than right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17821	Now comes Mrs Mag. Verena Nussbaum word. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17846	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! I am really pleased today that we will be able to decide across party borders that we will improve life for people with disabilities. We see daily how people in employment structures do great work, giving them independence and independence. But what we don't see – and don't want to see – is that these people in the day-to-day structures don't get a fair reward for their work. They do not receive a wage, nor are they subject to health insurance and pension insurance insurance, which they are at their age prior to work. It always depends on their family members. I am seriously wondering how we can reconcile this with our social values – after all, Austria has also agreed to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to change that now. In addition, it is particularly important for young people with disabilities not to immediately identify permanent and then binding incapacity for work, but to allow them to experience longer periods of testing. The aim is to better recognise the potential and skills of people, thereby also making the desire of many young people with disabilities sufficient to find their future in employment. The third measure, which will be implemented with this request, deals with personal assistance in the field of leisure. Unfortunately, there is still no Austrian-wide regulation – quite the contrary: The regulations are so different throughout Austria that one can say that the offer is given from relatively dissatisfying to practically non-existent. In addition, an inclusion fund is to be created – from our point of view, analogous to the care fund – which is intended to regulate it throughout the country. It is nice that we will reach an agreement today, but now it is about implementation. We will remain behind it and see that these measures are being implemented quickly in the interests of people with disabilities. We will continue to pay attention to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17894	Mr Magnette has now come to speak. Christian Ragger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17918	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the house! For me, this is a wonderful day today, because a ten-year struggle between me – at the beginning, in the early years, I was a social representative in the country of Carinthia – is ending by finding, after ten years today, an approach that we have implemented in Carinthia, namely the Carinthian Equal Opportunities Act, to discuss publicly here today also in the House. For me, it is a farce that we have not managed in the last decades to actually implement Article 27 of this UN Convention, because restrictions due to disability must not have a place in our society today – quite the contrary: It must be the rule today that people with disabilities are normally employed in a working relationship. I would like to give you four examples of what we have done in Carinthia for people with disabilities – we introduced the first inclusion class in Carinthia in 2012 – as we have implemented and where we have already implemented in the past what we would like to have all the political groups here gratefully decided. A small example: We opened a café together with the AMS at the time, where people who had an impairment were transferred to the work process. Today, the mediation rate for this project is 85 percent. We have converted the animal shelter into Klagenfurt and have built a day care centre in which we have animated half of the people there, as an animal caretaker. To be trained, and we trained them. These are people who are insured today who are paying in the social pot which is included in the pension stopper, which will receive a pension. Let me give you a fourth example: I had to lock up an Adeg store in Wolfsberg, and we managed to train people as merchants there in cooperation with an organization that is called Per Mente – and it is also public. They're integrated today, get a pension, are socially insured today. This should be the rule that we should measure ourselves on, so I thank all the political groups today for allowing this first step and this decision – and the next one should be followed soon and quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17967	Mrs Heike Grebien. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e17991	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators here in the High House, in the gallery and also at home or before any technical device! As representatives of the Austrian population, we have a mission to represent the interests of those groups for which we are allowed to speak. That group, which I may represent in the Green Group, is a group of more than 1.4 million people in Austria, without including the members. These are people with disabilities in different situations of life, in different situations of life, of different ages, of sex, of different religious backgrounds and of origin – in short: our fellow human beings, who are still a part of it, can actually participate in our society with equal rights, inclusive and self-determined. As an activist, I was used to looking for a common denominator, even though he was still so small to make himself strong together in order to allow many people a good life in Austria to move something. As you know, this is about the realities of our fellow human beings, and it should not be party-political hack. That is why, personally, the cross-group work is very important to me, because all of us here, ladies and gentlemen, can and must work together, if we are to be representatives of the Austrian population, with the claim that we are representative of the Austrian population. In my opinion, all of us in the last Committee have done just that. Mr Nussbaum from the SPÖ has made a request which has already been submitted, a request from the colleague Mr Nussbaum from the NEOS has been included, and has come out of a joint amended motion for a resolution, with which all five political groups of this House have expressed their support for improved working conditions for people with disabilities – that is, exactly what our fellow human beings expect of us here. In concrete terms, three points have been decided on which my colleagues and previous speakers have already responded. The first point is that the Minister for Social Affairs is asked to prepare for implementation steps in the future, that in the future, the inability of people with disabilities to work will only be determined after a longer trial period, taking into account the diverse support offerings of AMS and Social Ministry service and taking into account professional expertise. The second point concerns people working in day-to-day structures. Together with stakeholders and countries, implementation steps are to be taken to integrate this group into statutory health and pension insurance. On the third point, we have jointly expressed our support for developing a single federal framework for personal assistance and for examining the creation of an inclusion fund. The points one and two that I have referred to are largely from the recommendations of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which, in their special report 2019, has already referred to the dramatic situation of people with disabilities at work. Point three, the personal assistance and inclusion funds, is a big step so that people with disabilities can actually participate in all areas of life by themselves. This is in line with the wishes of many self-employed people and greatly improves the human rights situation. When I speak of human rights: As the colleague or fellow Members have already mentioned, we have ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled in 2008, and this request is in line with Article 27. Appreciative Members of this House! We have here together a large stone, which at some times – as I would say – has worked a little restful or seemed immobile, missing a crack. Please continue to be so constructive with each other, in the good, and let's break up the stone piece by piece and also take off the rubble together! If we've done this – and it's a broad way, I know – then we can all really talk about real accessibility here. I'm ready, and I hope you're ready, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18046	Mrs Fiona Fiona Fiedler has now been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18068	Mr President. High house! Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! Inclusion begins in our minds, and I think today we can all be proud of ourselves – we agree. Excessive consensus is yes, one knows it from many other areas, a true rarity. Today, however, we all want to improve the living situation for people with disabilities. This is good and, if NEOS goes after us, it's been overdue for a long time. But what we can't be is naïve. Everything that was demanded here is by no means new. It is the demands that representatives from the various organisations for people with disabilities have been setting up for years, sometimes decades again and again. So the wheel no longer needs to be reinvented, the demands only need finally to be implemented. Inclusion was a political marginality for years. Let's make them a main matter and put them in the center! Let's live inclusion! In recent months, I have been able to meet many enriching people who, in part, volunteer, partly chiefly for the weakest among us. I'm overwhelmed after every appointment, after every conversation. There are associations and foundations for people with various disabilities. This variety of clubs exists only because politics – all of us, ladies and gentlemen – has watched for too long. It was necessary to arrange and make the best of unsatisfying facts. The results are sensational. I would like to take the opportunity today and thank all those people who have been fighting for inclusion for years. I would like to assure them today and now: I'm one of them. I will use all the means I can to ensure that the fine words in the requests are actually followed. [[Call the SPÖ:We too!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18101	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18126	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery, but also at home! Yes, it is gratifying – and this has already been said – that we today have a common request for a common initiative to force the employment of people with disabilities in the first labour market. I think that's what matters. Kira Grünberg and others have already done very concretely what it is about, what great opportunities there are when we change the framework conditions accordingly and think it honestly. I think the goal must be to enable people with disabilities to live self-determined lives. It has already been said that this is not only about purely medical criteria, but also about the professional expertise that we need to take into account. I would like to thank the economy in particular, because without the economy this is not possible. There are so many positive examples that go in the right direction – international as well as national. For example, I am thinking of the company Walgreens, which employs 50 percent people with disabilities in its logistics centres and has great success, but also of many great examples in Austria – the mechanical engineer Trumpf, Rewe, DM, Bank Austria or Raiffeisen International. I also call smaller and medium-sized companies, such as Zotter or Sonnentor and also the beautiful example of the Marien pharmacy in Vienna. But it is not made easy for companies, you have to hold on to it. We need more flexible variants, there are too many different contacts, and there are information deficits. But there are also barriers, yes, also in the head – this has already been said by one of my previous speakers. The termination protection, which was massively loosened in 2012, is still swirling around in the heads. Therefore, it is important to inspire with best-practice examples and to bring together the economy and those concerned, as the Essl Foundation does, for example, with Mr. Commercialrat Martin Essl, who was here in Parliament and with a congress here in Vienna last week, organized dialogue events and so on to the economy. However, I would also like to thank President Wolfgang Sobotka, who last week opened up Parliament for this issue. That too, I believe, is an important signal and a real step. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] There are many initiatives, for example those of Ö3 with our long-standing colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg, for whom more than 150 companies have reported. It was about searching for teaching places. In the end, however, not as much as you would have expected. The Neba organisations, the AMS and the Social Ministry services must work together more closely and flexibly. We need a kind of one-stop shop model, similar to we have been organizing it in Carinthia with the company Autark for a long time. As has been said – once again – the message must be that we do everything we can to make it easier for companies to do everything we can with this request for Austria to become a model country for inclusive employment. Do we have the courage to do so? I think we're on the right path today. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18180	Mrs Bedrana Ribo is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18201	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Of course, I fully confirm the importance of inclusion at the workplace, but what will come after that? What happens after a person's work? As a Green and Senior Spokesman, I would like to address the issue of disability in old age. Not only in Austria, but all over the world old societies. That's nothing new. It is often forgotten that old age is not the same among all people. Some are lucky and take their physical and mental fitness with their old age, others experience suffering, often even before retirement, that it is not so easy – the physical, but also mental health and mental performance leave behind. In this context, I would like to remind you: Dementia is one of the most common diseases in old age. Then there are those people who have been dependent on support since birth or from a young age, namely people with disabilities. These people are getting older these days. This is gratifying, but it also presents us with new challenges. Our society, but also the current social system, is not prepared for this development. Over a third of the people with disabilities who are over 40 years old still live with their parents, and there is also the phenomenon – for some perhaps known – of double aging: high-age parents who are overly overwhelmed with the care of their children who are also older. In addition, the legitimate concern of the parents is what happens after their death: What's going on with the kid? Who cares? Who cares about these children or those grown - up people? Where will they live? The situation is currently such in Austria that people with disabilities de facto have almost no say in the choice of their place of residence in old age, while there is a talk of self-determination everywhere; we have heard this more often today. People with disabilities should also have the right to decide for themselves where and how they live in old age: whether at home, in a housing community, or in a caretaker's home. That should be the case. Unfortunately, reality is another. We often find people with disabilities in nursing homes or old age homes in relatively young years, i.e. at the age of 50, 60. This is definitely not the appropriate place to live for this group of people. People with disabilities are rightly expecting improvements, and together, we have demonstrated this with this joint request, we can support these changes and improvements – and we must do so too. It is up to us to ensure the participation and self-determination of those concerned in old age. As it fits the subject, also a book tip “Because I’m here: [[keeping a copy of the cover of the corresponding book in height]] 24 portraits of extraordinary people”, by Christopher Mavric and Stefan Schlögl; I can warmly recommend this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18250	Ladies and gentlemen! We have the honour of welcoming the Serbian Orthodox Bishop Andrej Oilerdžić in our midst. – Welcome to the house! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Gudrun Kugler has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18283	Mr President. Revered Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank my previous speakers, who have said a lot of important things on inclusion in the labour market, and I am pleased that we can decide on a common request today. I would like to have three general thoughts on inclusion, because inclusion begins in the heart. 20 percent of people in Austria are affected by impairments. When we look into our own families, we may remember that. I myself have a nephew who lives with a delay in development and epilepsy, but who gets the best possible support in the family. I also have an almost deaf niece and an almost deaf nephew, who through the incredible work of their parents both could make the Matura. My grand aunt with Downsyndrome died recently. She has been able to live in the family for many decades. I bow to people who carry out such a service that, through their service, consideration, shows their love, how inclusion can succeed. The service of these people says: You are valuable – everyone is valuable – no matter how you are. The supervisors in the workshops and day-to-day workshops do just as we read in the People's Procuratorate's Report. - That's inclusion. Inclusion also begins in the head. In Parliament – Mr Scheucher-Pichler mentioned this already – there was an event a week ago, where we learned how many great technologies there are to enable inclusion and participation in the labour market. Some of them were presented here in Parliament: a glasses that read what you can't see, or a tablet that writes what you can't hear yourself, or the answer someone wants to give, who can't say it, then tells him. We need to bring these great innovations throughout Austria. This too is inclusion. Inclusion, however, is also a basic attitude, and something may not be true of a society when a mother, a father with a child with disabilities on the street has to explain why this child is there at all – did they not know that there are other possibilities?, these parents then hear – or if, as in Austria, according to common jurisdiction – doctors are liable for damages if they do not tell parents of children with disabilities that they can also drive this child off – it is not about compensation for the additional costs caused by the impairment, but about compensation for the entire life of this person, as if the person himself were the harm – or if, as we know from the statistics we have, children with Downsyndrome, with Trisomy 21, hardly more than it would be the case. We are talking about an invaluable judgment, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is not inclusion! Moses said prominently: “Choose life that you may live”. We want to tell everyone: You're valuable, you're unique, you're welcome, we don't want to give up on you. - That's inclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18334	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Before I close the debate and come to the vote, I can announce that this June our Parliamentary Federal Commission will hold the international conference of the military ombuds institutions of ICOAF. Today, the organization meeting takes place, and I welcome representatives from Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands, Australia and South Africa to the gallery. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 46 of the Supplements on'measures to improve working conditions for people with disabilities'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. This has been adopted unanimously. [[11/E]] – I congratulate you very much. [[14:37:56]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 240/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in a federal law amending the Chamber of Labour (47 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion for a resolution 241/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Workers' Chamber Act (48 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 242/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Chamber of Labour Act (49 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18421	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18451	Mr President. Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with three requests from the NEOS, and all three are dealing with the Chamber of Workers. It is so – at least the applicant’s reasoning, and you can agree to this if you look at yourself a little bit and click through what the Salzburg Chamber of Labour has done in recent months: The Chamber of Labour Salzburg has made many – let us say – advertising campaigns in which it has vilified various parties in this Republic. In concrete terms, the only party that gets out of it is the SPÖ, of course, because the Chamber of Labour can almost be described as the pre-disposition organisation of the SPÖ. That is something we have been criticising for many years. There, Mr Loacker of the NEOS is quite right when he criticizes this and when he says that the Chamber of Labour must also be obliged to be objective, because only because chamber elections go out the way they go, does not mean that the contributors all choose the SPÖ. If you know how high the vote is, how important the Chamber of Labour is to the citizens, the workers are really – voting participations of less than 30 percent! – then you have to leave the church in the village. It makes sense, of course, to say that Salzburg should once become a pilot project, a pilot region in which the mandatory membership of the Chamber of Labour is abolished. This is something we will at least agree with as a liberal, because for many years we have called for the suspension of compulsory membership in the chambers, of course not only at the Chamber of Labour, but also at the Chamber of Commerce. ==References== In the 19th century, no justification for compulsory membership at all. That is, a chamber that works well will also get its members. This has always been our access and therefore we will of course support this request by Mr Loacker. What he expressly demands – in another application – is objectivity and overparticipality of the chambers; this is also to be supported, of course. Whoever does not agree to this request, I ask the question: What is the countermodel then? The partyity of the Chamber of Workers?- Oh, my God! Would you all, ladies and gentlemen, not agree to this request now, really? You really want the Chamber of Workers not to be extra-partisan?- Oh, my God! – Before you vote, think about what you will express with your voting behaviour here today! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Then there is Mr Loacker's third request, namely that the Chamber of Labour be restricted. Here too he has brought an example: The pure assets of the Chambers of Workers from 2018 are estimated at 444 million euros, although annual expenditure is only about 400 million euros. In other words, the pure property that the Chambers of Workers have to pay due to the duties of each worker, whether he wants or not, whether he needs the Chamber of Labour or not, is much higher than what the Chamber of Workers spends in a year. This is something that is really not comprehensible, because if you think that social security funds are limited to spending a month, then the question arises, what sense does it actually have, that the Chamber of Labour hears wealth that would in fact be granted to the workers? If it can accumulate such a wealth, it can only mean that the contributions are too high, and therefore it calls for the reduction of the contributions of the workers in the Chamber of Labour. We will all vote in favour of three motions. I would also like this to be done by the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18502	Mag. Klaus Fürlinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18527	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, all professions, whether self-employed or self-employed, are organized in public law bodies, in legally established chambers. Whether you are a doctor, lawyer or pharmacist, whether you are a worker or an employee or simply a trader: You have a chamber. These chambers have been entrusted by the state with legal tasks, regulatory tasks – they do things that the state administration would otherwise have to do in the field of sovereignty – they work that out. They monitor the stands, they look at the quality of work, they practice disciplinary jurisdiction over their members in certain areas. Of course, a debate can be held on whether it is possible to resolve membership of the Chamber, whether to abolish compulsory membership, but, ladies and gentlemen, you always have to think about it: If you do, you have to know who else is fulfilling the legal administrative tasks of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mr Loacker, has not yet been noticed as someone who said: We must urgently increase the administrative system and recruit more officials! – These would be necessary without number if the Chambers did not fulfil these tasks, which are indispensablely necessary, with their membership contributions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Which one? Goulash soup price comparison or what?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the part A and the title are very tempting and sound wonderful, but one of the ladies and gentlemen of NEOS, be told: Quidquid agis, prudeter agas et respice finem! Look at the end of your application and make a proper proposal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: That was Latin for contractors now!]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... in German!]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, there is no need to make a request for chambers and legal representations to be objective by law. [[Abg. Schellhorn: (in the direction of ÖVP) Are you not hurting over there?]] However, we must have a watchful eye on it – I come from Upper Austria; I do not know how it was in Salzburg, but also in Upper Austria there is one person or another who, in view of a strong proximity to the Social Democratic Party and a strong proximity to the fulfilment of the tasks of the Social Democratic Party, is slightly obsessive – ladies and gentlemen, we must have a watchful eye to the Chamber of Workers that they take care of the interests of the workers and employees represented by it and not the SPÖ, because of course it does not pay any forced contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] We'll watch this well. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18626	The word is now known as Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18651	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! 100 years of workers' chamber – well, but unfortunately the AK still works 100 years ago, essentially in the dark. If the compulsory member looks at the wage bill, how high his forced contributions are, then this member is looking in the dark, because this is hidden somewhere in the social security contributions. If this member wants to know what will be done with his forced contributions, he may go to the homepage of the AK and want to see the billing and know how much is spent on securities, how much is spent on pension expenses and in which GmbHs are actually involved, then all this remains in the dark. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Here he can engage the Jazz Gitti for the October festival!]] If you want to know more precisely, you as a member of the AK may of course come by personally and take an insight into the billing – as it was 100 years ago when the AK was founded. The viewers may now think: Well, the Court of Auditors is looking at the Chamber of Labour! – Unfortunately, but only a little, because in a board the Court of Auditors, which examines the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness, must not consider the expediency. They have a million-severe advertising volume, and the Court of Auditors might ask: Why do you spend so much money on advertising as a forced organization? Then they'll say: That is a question of expediency that you must not ask! – Testing If you are not allowed to check the expediency! Everything's in the dark, too. Whoever checks is the internal control body of the Chamber. - Great! The Director of the Chamber is the head of the Chamber, and his staff then report to his own director; this report, you have already suggested, remains in the dark, by the way. To bring some light to the matter, I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The income of the workers' chamber is on average higher by the double inflation rate. Imagine that for yourself private or for Your company before: just go up with the double inflation rate next year! With this lot of money coming in at the window, you have to do something, so you get involved in GmbHs, buy securities – 129 million euros are partly in individual stock titles. Otherwise, the supersocis of the AK don't have it with the capital market, but with the forced contributions of the forced members you can buy a few shares – everything only in the interests of the workers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Look here!]] In Austria, unlike in Germany, there is no reserve limit for such assets of the AK. We therefore request such a ceiling. In fact, there would be the task of representing all employees, but one is limited to the SPÖ and one in one's own AK journals is fairly limited to the ÖVP, the FPÖ and the NEOS because they are all very evil. An association with voluntary membership could do all that, then the member can decide whether or not to carry it. But in an organization where no one can choose whether or not he is present, that is not possible. There is a demand for objectivity, otherwise this compulsion belongs away. An end to the chamber force would suddenly turn the forced members into customers. That would be a complete system change, we would like to: a service-oriented working room instead of a red money store. But you're not about service, you're not about the members, you're all about power. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[14:49]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18774	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is also under negotiation. Mr Alois Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. . You know the very clear rules of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker claimed that everything was in the dark with the question of the Chambers of Workers. - That's wrong. He also claimed that the accounts had not been published. Mr Loacker, I have been watching the Internet in the meantime, during your speech. [[Abg. Loacker: That's supposed to be an invoice, the few numbers?]] The Oberösterreich Chamber of Workers published the invoice, as provided for by law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18863	Mr Dietmar Keck has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e18893	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! We have three requests from Mr Loacker. The first proposal includes the reduction of the social rights of workers, because the application marks the beginning of the end of the outstanding social rights enjoyed by employees in Austria. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Who says that?]] In concrete terms, these are legal protection in the event of conflicts with companies and the strong representation of the interests of employees vis-à-vis policy. The second request, Mr Loacker, means nothing but a reduction in the contributions you wish to make with this request. You just explained how rich the workers' chamber is, what it has everything. – I can only say to this so-called horrified pureness of 440 million euros you quote over and over again: In particular, there are the buildings of the Chamber of Workers in it. [[Abg. Loacker: Palaces!]] These are a total of around 100 advisory and educational centres throughout Austria, including in rural areas, so that people can easily reach right advice centres there. The third request, the obligation to be disproportionate: Dear colleague Loacker! As a legal representative of 3.7 million people in Austria, the AK is committed to overparty and does all of this. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: But you don't!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: They're not extraordinary!]] I would like to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: Now that numbers have been mentioned over and over again to show how bad the AK is on and on its own, I would like to present a few figures on the example of the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What has the AK Oberösterreich achieved in 2019? – It has won almost 118 million euros for its members – almost 118 million euros! –, money for those concerned who would have been granted them, but who only received them with the help of the Chamber of Labour, including saved wages, money for up to then unpaid overtimes or missing compensation for redundancies. 117.91 million are quite accurate. Most of them, which amounted to 72.1 million euros, were in the area of social law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Another large share – i.e. EUR 30.35 million – was fought in insolvency proceedings for employees affected by company pleas. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Insolvency compensation fund!]] In labour law matters, AK brought in 11.7 million euros. In total, it was EUR 118 million for employees. If the Chamber of Labour did not exist, these 118 million euros would no longer be available, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightness: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: such a fool!]] Next: Let's take a look at this! How many consultations were held at the Chamber of Workers alone in Upper Austria in 2019? – 325 539 consultations, including 62 771 personal consultations, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, that's a mass. There have been 8 878 representations, including 3 515 in the field of labour law alone, 2 064 in social law and 3 299 in insolvency matters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] A permanent burner, ladies and gentlemen – and also the Chamber of Workers – forms the care allowance. Since 2018, the Chamber of Labour has also been consulting on the classification of care benefits. In 2019, there were 1 100 consultations alone with regard to the care allowance classification, because there was really very, very bad classification. What does all of this cost the so-called forced members? - Exactly 23 cents a day. 23 cents per day is the worker chamber contribution for an average income. That's about 7 euros a month. Considering that an hour of a lawyer in such legal matters, in representations is a multiple of the annual contribution paid by employees to the Chamber of Labour, I must say: Thank God we have the Chamber of Workers, thank God we celebrate 100 years of the Chamber of Workers! I hope that in 100 years we will celebrate 200 years of the Chamber of Labour, that we will continue to have a proper representation for the employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19040	Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19064	Mr President. Minister! You should not be surprised that as a liberal, as the name says, we are in principle opposed to forced membership and compulsory membership. In addition, this applies, for example, to the ORF; there is a similar topic. Very many Austrians would probably wish there were no more compulsory membership. This too is a compulsion that we believe is heard away. But let's talk about the chambers again! Today we are talking about the Chamber of Labour, but of course it is also about the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Commerce. Today it is not about us doing a bashing as far as the chambers are concerned, I have to say that in principle. I would also like to expressly point out that very good work is being done by the employees both in the Chamber of Labour and in the Chamber of Commerce. I don't want to abdicate that right now. But there is a massive need for reform in all chambers. Of course, the resistance – in this case from the SPÖ and the ÖVP – as far as the chambers are concerned has been quite massive for years and decades. It is also necessary to take note of the political realities. We all know: The chambers were raised by red and black in the constitutional rank. That is to say, the abolition will probably not exist at my lifetime, except for the ÖVP and the SPÖ tend to tend towards 10 percent, which one can hope, but which may not be expected immediately. What there is, you have to say quite clearly: There is a red all-power in the Chamber of Workers, there is a black all-power in the Chamber of Commerce. That can't be in the inventor's mind. I would call on SPÖ and ÖVP to go in a little bit and really act as a representative of interest. Of course, the Chamber of Labour makes politics of social democracy. This is particularly noticeable when the SPÖ is in the government; then the Chamber of Labour is usually very tame. In the opposite case one has to say, whenever the ÖVP is in the government – that was the case for most of the time – then the Economic Chamber of the ÖVP is also very tame. [[Abg. Schellhorn: But it's been a long time!]] The Chambers should, however, be a representative of interest and criticise matters relating to the economy or, in this case, the workers, regardless of their participation in the government. [[Abg. Schellhorn: The millions in chamber funding!]] What is also present in the Chamber of Labour: a branch of the trade union. That is, the union is negotiating wage. So there, too, you have to say, there are double-tracks. I believe that this should and could be discussed, Mr Vogl, at least once or, ideally, abolished. The fact that transparency is not given, I believe, does not need to be discussed; it is in principle lacking in the Chambers. I say it again: At some point the pressure of the road may become so great that the chambers have to move. Unfortunately, one sees God's participation in the election: There's a problem with the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers. If you can't even move 70 percent of the members to a choice that is sometimes very simple, then it will be problematic. [[Abg. Schellhorn: The business chamber election is not easy!]] So, of course, we reject this political group of the Chambers. We are in favour of an overparty solution which is also transparent. I would like to make a pragmatic proposal. I wonder if the Chambers could not discuss an opt-out solution after five years of forced membership. Then, as an entrepreneur, you can say after five years: Okay, now I've experienced it for five years! Did it bring me something as an entrepreneur? Can I get out? The same applies to the Chamber of Workers. If you have been a forced member of the Chamber of Labour for five years, then perhaps there should be the time when you can say as an employee: Please, thank you, this 30 Euro per month – it is in fact 30 Euro per month, not 3 Euro; let's stick to the truth! – I’d rather save myself, I want to get out! That is, a proposal on our part: Let's think about providing an opt-out version for forced membership at least after five years! Otherwise, I would like to see more change at ÖVP and SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19131	I am now interrupting the negotiations on Agenda items 6 to 8 on the implementation of a short debate. [[15:00:20]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19152	The short debate concerns the request by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the Equal Treatment Committee for Reporting on Amendment 117/A(E) on ‘Real violence measures instead of steps towards the burden of women and children affected by violence’. In March 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government or from other State Secretarys should not last more than 10 minutes. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! [[The speaker put forward a paper entitled “Women’s Helpline Against Violence: 0800 222 555. www. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply: Police: 133” on the speaker's desk.]] You don't like to talk about violence, but you need to talk about violence. I should like to remind you that, due to the many elections that have taken place in the last two years, we have not really progressed in this sector as it would be necessary. I believe, however, that it should be possible for the Minister of Finance to be able to provide an emergency package if there is an unforeseen accumulation of such violence, in order to be able to provide rapid assistance. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's exactly what it's all about today. We have to talk again about violence, we have to talk again about violence against women, exercised by their partners or ex-partners – it is still suspected crimes committed because the perpetrators have not yet been condemned. In this year alone, in the first weeks of this year, there have been five murder attempts and six murders. 15. Years in Ybbs: A woman's gonna be soaked. 29. Years in Vienna: A woman is threatened. 4. February in shoots in the Styria: A woman's gonna be soaked. 4. February in Graz: A woman's gonna be soaked. 13. February in Kössen in Tirol: A woman is probably strangled. And on the 23rd. February the last tragic case in Hartberg in Styria: A woman is shot. – Shots, blows, strangles: Last year it was 41 such cases, two years ago 34. In 2017, the then Federal Chancellor – it was already Chancellor in short – said: We will make 100 places available there immediately. – Whether it's women's homes, transition homes or consulting places, it wasn't clear. However, it has not yet been done that we from the federal side had created only one place more for women. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who prevented us from doing so?- Oh, my God!]] No more space! [[Call to the ÖVP: You have prevented us from doing so!]] But it has been in the last two years, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been quite much delay, so that nothing has gone on. Unfortunately, too many women have been murdered at that time, and when women are murdered, they are called femicide. Women are murdered because they are women, mostly from their partners or ex-partners, and the most dangerous place for women – we know that too – are often their own four walls. The time when it is most dangerous for women is when they have decided to separate themselves from their partners, or even after the separation, if their ego and, I know, alcohol influences do not allow them to bear that they have lost their partner. You know, ladies and gentlemen, 6 000 women were cared for by the Vienna intervention agency alone last year. Do you know how many kids there were? – 5,000 children were cared for – as well as it was, because there are no resources for children in particular. For children, there are no resources from the Federal Government to offer these children a therapy to accompany these children well if they have to express themselves in processes. It's not happening. We talked about women's desire here. One of the points was: How can we quickly take better measures against violence? All the members of the government left the government bank; there was no one there. Here in this House we have still not been able to find the right way about the women's people's desire. How long does it have to go on so long that almost every week a woman is murdered and nothing happens here? We as politicians and you as politicians are often asked: Why don't you guys do anything? Why don't we do anything in this high house? That is why we are proposing this deadline today. The Minister of Finance has the ridiculous 4 million euros – so many millions are spent for so much! – so that hundreds of employees in the individual women's counseling facilities, fifty, fifty employees in the violence centres, as well as in men's counseling centres, could be well equipped, above all, for children's protection centres. Waiting times are problematic, and I stick to what I have said before: Long waiting times can endanger women's lives. If you have to wait three, six, eight weeks for an appointment to be advised anonymously if you want to separate, because you may not know this number that has been there for over 20 years, it can become problematic. [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] I can also tell you something about this helpline: I would like to add to the sign language interpreter that the helpline number, the SMS helpline number for deaf women 0800 133 133. This is the police emergency help line for deaf women. That means there's help. 30 percent of women call on weekends, 10 percent of women call at night. This helpline is available 24 hours a day all year round. In order to apply for this number, there is also a lack of money, because each cent is consulted. There is no money left for campaigns, for information left, but exactly they would be necessary so that nothing happens so that before a murder happens, help can be given to women and the children. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when the 2018 series of murders took on a scale that made us one of the sad final lights in Europe, two ministers of the time and the Secretary of State in the January and presented an eight-point programme. Of these points, hardly one has been implemented. There was the imagination that we need a three-digit emergency call number – not this one here, which people know so half-way after more than 20 years. [[Re-showing on the panel on the speaker's desk]] It hasn't gotten anything out of it anyway. What has become of it? The budget should be increased by up to 10 percent. – So far, it has not even been by 1 percent higher. What of these eight points has been implemented? – The Bannmile was enshrined in the Violence Act. Extend the advisory bodies: All parties voted for more money for women's institutions. – Nothing has happened until today! I would ask you not to come up with the excuse that we have to wait for the budget. The Minister of Finance has money for so much. For consultant contracts – and I don't know what else – millions are spent (Abg. Michael Hammer: Come on, that's a fool!) and these ridiculous 4 million euros for women's institutions should not be possible? This is really a joke, ladies and gentlemen. (Applause from SPÖ, Greens and NEOS) The then Minister of the Interior abolished the high-risk conference – these were monthly meetings of women's advisory bodies, the police, so all involved before something happened before a murder happened. Then so many murders happened, and he thought: Now I look at it for a year, what it looks like, for what reasons women are murdered! - Yeah, we know that anyway. It was the partners, the ex-partners; it was alcoholism and unemployment that apparently driven men into their all-powered fantasies. So, what happened? – After screening, they said: Well, you should talk a bit more clearly with the hazards! - That's the only thing that happened. A project for under 18 years of age was started – no idea what became of it – and otherwise nothing happened. Do you know what the interim women's minister did in these few months? – She has established in every federal state a specialist for women affected by sexual violence, although she has no longer had money. There is now a department in every federal state for women affected by sexual violence. It has reached 100,000 young people in the summer with an action concerning K.-o.-trophic – that is not to be rejected by hand – so that an awareness is created that this can always happen. It has ensured funding for the law firm against hatred in the network for this year, and has offered countless workshops for students, doctors, nurses. What else has happened from the government side? – The new government is there, and the two ministers – on the one hand those for women and integration, on the other hand those for families and youth – have not yet spoken out on the issue of violence against women. Zero tolerance in violence! – Yes, we all say that, for a long time, but we must act, ladies and gentlemen, here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why: Voices Please submit this request for a deadline. It's about the lives of women in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19267	I can warmly welcome the students of the Adalbert-Stifter-Gymnasium in Linz to our high house. [[General condolences.]] Mrs Pfurtscheller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. [[Abg. Krainer: But the minister is not interested in the subject at all, it is not there at all!]] [[Ruf:Yes, where is it at all?]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: It's a deadline debate!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: In case of a deadline request...! ...you know the Usances!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Is this a use that the minister...?- Oh, my God!]] [[The President gives the bell sign.]] The honourable Member is on the floor, Mr Krainer, I would ask you to respect this.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19362	Mr Krainer, it will certainly be such that the Minister will then see how the debate has gone. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You do not need to be afraid that our Minister is not interested in this debate. I wanted to start quite differently, but since Mr Heinisch-Hosek's attacks were so comprehensive now, I would like to address two issues first: We are currently conducting the budget negotiations, and you are already imagining from the outset that we will have too little budget. That's what I think I'm pretty much measuring. Let's take a look at what happened on the 18th. March will be presented! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We need it now!]] When it comes to the budget, I would like to say something that your colleague can probably confirm: There has recently been a debate with various anti-violence institutions, and there was also Mrs. Wölfl from the Child Protection Agency. The gulls in Vienna. She has told us very angryly – and this can be confirmed by all colleagues who were there – that the municipality of Vienna has provided exactly 0 euros for this violent facility this year. That's a great shame! Then to make yourself here and somehow to blame ourselves for being too little money, I think I'm quite measured. Perhaps you should ask the municipal government in Vienna if it would not be possible for them to pay something again, the dear colleagues from the SPÖ Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] So, and now I'm starting where I actually wanted to start: I would like to express my warm condolences and compassion to the grieving families and relatives of these six murdered women. In our government programme, we have set ourselves the goal of protecting people in Austria from violence as much as possible, especially children and women should not be afraid in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, also from SPÖ, you will find all our extensive projects in our government programme, from page 272, if you would like to read it. If you read it, you will find that many of the demands that have now come from the SPÖ or those that have been made in this request, on which the deadline application has now been submitted, are also present in our government programme. So you see, actually, we're not so far apart. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] However, the headline of the current motion for a resolution seems to me to be a bit strange, because it is assumed that in the last legislative period no “real” measures have been adopted – under quotations – on violence. I would like to add to this for all listeners: “Real” – under quotations – measures are only available if the SPÖ decides and puts them into effect; if we decide something, then it is not real. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – This is what I think is a strange access to democratic processes, because all these measures have not only decided to do with the FPÖ as an ÖVP, they have also voted in favour of NEOS and, as far as I can remember, also the list of mushrooms that was here at the time. So I think I'm kind of a fair measure of real and unfair speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I would therefore like to take a brief look at what we decided last September, without the voice of the SPÖ, which is now being implemented: The security police conference seems to me to be particularly important from the bundle of measures, especially because Mr Heinisch-Hosek complained that there should be no more. That is not true, they have been put on new feet because it was necessary to regulate the responsibility clearly and to enable the exchange of data. We have provided opportunities for victims to change their name and their social security number so that they can no longer be found by their persecutors. We have created opportunities to convert the ban on entry into a ban so that the vulnerable people are protected not only at home, in their homes, but within 100 metres and children not only directly at school. As Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has said, there have been a wide-ranging set-up of professional advisory bodies in all federal states in sexual violence. Mrs Ex-Minister Stilling has also implemented what is of course very welcome and we are very pleased. The culprit's work has been committed, and in the future perpetrators have to undergo therapy. In addition, numerous criminal intensifications have been decided because we are convinced that it is also important for women to be condemned if they bring their actions to light. I still have many points, but unfortunately I don't have time. It is important for me to conclude by saying: We are all aware that we need the appropriate budget for the important work of the anti-violence organisations, for prevention, for information and for all the further measures we have agreed on in the government programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19428	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19443	Right now, Mr President. I would like to point out that violence prevention and violence are indeed a cross-sectional matter and that the budget is not only granted by the Ministry of Women. However, I can assure you that our women's minister fully supports our concerns during the ongoing budgetary negotiations and is committed to doing so with all his strength. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19471	Mrs Schatter. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19492	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Six women were murdered in the first nine weeks of 2020, there were also five attempts to kill women this year. There were 34 women's murders in 2019 and 41 women's murders in 2018, Colleague Heinisch-Hosek has already done this before. At this point I would like to thank all those who gave these 81 women their voice this morning at a warning guard, who stood up for them to put a sign against this alarming situation. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I believe, however, that this tragic situation also leads us to see the urgent need for action. We need action in the field of violence, we need action in the field of violence prevention. One thing is clear: Both cannot work without the necessary financial resources. These funds need to be made available quickly, and not only after budgetary negotiations that will take place in April. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Recently, I – Mr Pfurtscheller has already mentioned it – was invited to live non-violently with colleagues from ÖVP, NEOS and Greens at Allianz. The organisations in the field of violence and in the field of violence, which are involved in women's advice and in girls' work, have presented themselves. What all these organisations agree with is the precarious financial situation they face and uncertainty about the financing of their work. We know, however, that this work is urgently necessary. At this point, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all these institutions for the people who are volunteering and working in this field and who are promoting the protection of violence and prevention. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] The figures of these organisations also show that we have too little resources available for the protection of violence and in the women's area as a whole. I remember the budget negotiations in 2018, which reduced the women's budget by 0.5 million euros, again to 10.17 million euros. Living non-violently, Allianz calls for the 21-fold of the current women's budget to be implemented in order to implement the necessary measures for the protection of violence and violence. That is, we urgently have something to do, and we still have air up. The fact that this extension of anti-violence facilities is urgently needed shows, for example, also the Landeskonduitshof in Upper Austria. The National Audit Court report states that only 41 of the 148 necessary women's housing places are actually available. In other words, we urgently need resources to expand the anti-violence institutions. Mrs Pfurtscheller, because you have not been able to save the hive to the city of Vienna: The city of Vienna is currently building a fifth women's house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What I would like to keep clear at this point is the call for proposals from the women's houses in Salzburg, which has been announced in the media in recent weeks. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Has made SPÖ Graz too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This approach is not portable for us, and I would like to show my solidarity with all three women's houses in Salzburg and thank me for their valuable work! [[Abg. Schellhorn: SPÖ Graz did that too!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For example, Mrs Pfurtscheller, as you have mentioned, genuine measures of protection against violence, for example, mean that, in 2018, one actually equips one hundred additional places of care for women affected by violence with the necessary budget and brings them into reality, otherwise they are only pure lip confessions, and no one woman is protected, of which no one child is protected who has to experience violence. That is why we are today making a request for a deadline concerning our request to make the necessary financial resources available immediately and not only in weeks or months. I am looking for support for our request in the sense of violence-affected women and children experiencing violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19572	Mr Ecker has been mentioned in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19598	Dear Bureau! On my paper I also read: Mrs. Minister – but this is as invisible as the violence of women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! The debate on violence against women was not held until recently in the House. We know there's been the sixth women's murder in the meantime. We could deal with violence at any meeting, but that alone will not benefit. The Minister for Women and the Minister for Justice are responsible for helping and supporting women in Austria. More violence prevention is needed, and we must protect the victims and not the perpetrators. This also includes the use and use of the legal possibilities of the directions and the detention to protect the victim and, please, the bans and the prohibitions of approach are expressed more quickly, otherwise this leads – we have heard it! – more and more often to murder. This is inconceivable and unbearable for the victim's family, and it must be for us. It must be our common objective that the public should also be alerted. In the said case, the victim of the murder has even started a call for help via Facebook, warning the neighborhood. It is a fact that many women and mothers are much too long exposed to violence and somehow persist because they do not know where they are going. We will agree to the SPÖ proposal for a deadline; not because we agree to the demands in the text, we agree because it is incredible that no committee date has been reached by the end of April. [[Abg. Lightness: Exactly!]] The government has been in office since January, and there has not been a family committee meeting or an equal treatment committee meeting so far. A meeting of the Family Committee is scheduled to be held on 12. A meeting of the Committee on Equal Opportunities at the end of April. Women and families are clearly on the top of the black-green government's list of priorities – Turquoise-green. [[Abg. Lightenness: Actually, down below!]] The SPÖ would not have needed a deadline request if an earlier committee had been possible, but there would be no need for measures, no lip recognition, and therefore we agree, and we will be actively involved in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19671	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19693	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! Dear Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! We've already heard: The year is not yet nine weeks old, and the sixth woman has already been thought to have been killed by her partner or ex-partner, and five others have been killed. The extent of violence in women is simply unbearable and underlines the urgent need for investment in the development of victim protection facilities, anti-violence centres and intervention agencies. This happens in Vienna – Vienna was addressed – in an exemplary way. This is where the network is being expanded with a fifth women's home, where 50 new places are created to offer to women who are in a corresponding situation and who need them. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] This is happening in Vienna. And at the federal level, we have also given priority to the protection of violence which he needs and which he absolutely must have, namely, the highest. I myself have been here in the House since 2019, the Greens have been in the government since January, but in the last ten years there have been different government participations and constellations: with the FPÖ, with the ÖVP and also with the SPÖ, and accordingly there have also been women's ministers of FPÖ, the ÖVP and the SPÖ. What has happened over the last ten years, entirely independent of which party the Minister of Women has heard? – An ever-increasing women’s budget and therefore always constant instead of increasing resources for genuine violence protection measures, as requested by your application in the title. Of these stagnating budgets and also of the cutbacks under the turquoise-blue government, victims' protection facilities, violence centres and intervention agencies were directly affected. This also applies to women's projects that have been engaged in feminist work for decades. As well as any measure required in your request, colleague Heinisch-Hosek, is included in the government programme. With the increase in budgetary resources, we create the prerequisites for ensuring and developing anti-violence centres, women's advisory bodies and intervention agencies, and we are working on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. We invest in awareness-raising measures for justice, police and other multipliers, as well as the multi-institutional case-conferences that have already been mentioned in high-risk cases requested in the application, can be found in our government programme. That these have been abolished by the then Minister for the Interior of the FPÖ was simply without responsibility, because we need more and no less protection from violence. [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, but then it's true with us! Then it'll fit!]] And if I'm already with the FPÖ, which always makes this happen: No, patriarchal attitudes and patriarchal thought patterns, violence as a conflict resolution method, that is not imported. Violence against women is a structural problem due to patriarchal power and nothing else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This also applies to the digital world: Every third girl, every third woman is affected by hatred or violence on the net. It is all the more important that Minister of Justice Alma Zadić has planned and already announced first important steps for a package of measures against violence on the network. Among other things, it is intended to create a requirement for police and prosecutors to investigate those who spread hatred on the web, so that those concerned do not also depend on a private complaint. These are important first steps that have already been taken very concretely. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot talk about violence and violence without saying anything about the situation in Salzburg. The NEOS councillor Klambauer would like to re-describe women's houses there. I have no understanding of this project, especially since such a call for tender is neither professional nor legal. The women's homes are proven, experienced institutions that are regionally anchored. Her employees have exactly this long-standing expertise in women's housework. They have established contacts with police, child and youth assistance and other institutions. If such structures are advertised internationally, this is the responsibility of those concerned, in the specific case, the victims of violence. That can't be anyone's interest. Neoliberal violence is not a protection against violence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Heinisch-Hosek, both of us share the conviction that it is a subject that we, as politicians, have to deal with with with the highest urgency in terms of the protection of violence and the prevention of violence. That is how I understand your proposal for a deadline today. As a government party, my group has already included in the government programme the urgency of the issues and the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19756	I am very pleased to welcome the guests at the gallery, who have invited Members of the Upper Nosters and who have apparently taken the wide path from Carinthia to Vienna. Welcome! Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19781	Mr President. Dear guests at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! Some of the facts that I am now telling you may have been heard by you today, but not by the Minister of Women, who may now, in these minutes, turn up and listen to the TV. 41 dead, murdered women last year, that was the number I mentioned in my very first speech here in the National Council. That's only a few weeks ago, and it's shocking that we have six murdered women to complain about at the beginning of the year. This is already inconceivable – and this, although there is actually a consensus across all political groups on the highest priority for the protection of violence, and Austria was actually a pioneer in the protection of violence. We adopted the first effective measures 25 years ago. Since then, for example, violent men can also be rejected. Many politicians and some politicians have been promoting improvements in the protection of violence since then. Many workers in the field of violence fight daily for endangered women and girls. They fight for victims to get protection and not to be victims at all. I would like to thank these women and men who are involved in this area very much. They really do an indispensable job. Without them, there would also be no refuge for threatened women and girls. Thank you very much! [[Conspicuousness with the Neos and the Abg. Bures.]] So we started well, but it's not enough. We urgently need to move forward in the field of violence. We need to dramatically improve the financial provision of justice and defence facilities. These are really important institutions that must not be under-financed chronically. We must not afford to save with them. With better funding, we also create the conditions for improved coordination, because police, justice and victim protection institutions must cooperate and also be able to exchange information. As a policy, it is up to us to create the scope for it. In order for this to work – once again – we need to put the funding of non-violent and victim institutions on new and solid legs. This also includes creating longer periods of support, because the institutions should know how to plan what they can expect, and not just every year: If there is a promotion now, will it be shortened, will it continue? For the institutions and also for employees it is really essential to know that. This will also create conditions for better cooperation, and all these measures will, of course, also increase the chance of successful prevention, which must be our main goal in the fight against violence against women and girls. We therefore welcome this request. We are also excited about how it will be reflected in the budget, because of the fact that budgets are, of course, cast policies. We will recognise the importance of women's issues and the importance of the protection of women's rights. However, we would like to add a few points to this proposal, because, as has already been said today, the protection of violence is a cross-sectional matter. We therefore call for the establishment of a national coordination body, because it cannot be that the agendas, the competences are divided into three ministries and nine federal states and important measures in this competence jungle remain on the road. Of course, such a coordination body needs a proper budget. Currently 10 million euros are available. Of course, this only covers a fraction of the costs and is not even 5 percent of what experts suggest. These estimate that it takes more than 200 million euros to coordinate violence effectively. [[Looking at the flashing red lamp on the speaker's coil:]] Now the red lamb begins to shine. There are a lot of other points we would like to add. I have already said that we need better financial resources and long-term planning, and would like to inform my colleagues from SPÖ and Greens of the following: In your world, it may be normal for you to give free-handed and without tender promotions to Kumpani. [[Deputies Maurer and Ernst-Dziedzic: So, please!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This is not normal for us, which is why, in the light of this budget, a Europe-wide call for proposals is needed. That's a law. [[Congratulations on the Neos.]] I would like us to really go shoulder to shoulder and not make political change on the back of the affected women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This is really a shame, and I expect us to get back together and start a normal dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19846	That was a point landing. The list of speakers is exhausted. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on the equal treatment committee for reporting on Amendment 117/A(E) a deadline until 17. In March 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request for deadlines, for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[15:36:45]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19883	I can resume the negotiations on Agenda items 6 to 8. Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19907	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, as already mentioned, the Chamber of Labour has its 100. birthday birthday. Sometimes one has the impression that some here in this house would be quite happy if it were the last birthday. I fear only – for you – that it will not be so, and that is good. That's even very good. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Musical.]] If the self-proclaimed chamber hunters and the self-proclaimed social homeguards co-exist, then it is usually known that the chambers are almost always in conflict. You have the feeling that the Murmeltier greets you every day. [[Abg. Belakovich: The chambers are not a purpose!]] The fact is that it is also relatively no matter what is specifically demanded, whether it is the limitation of reserves, whether it is an opt-out regarding a certain Chamber of Workers or whether it is the end of legal membership at all. In principle, it is always about the one thing, and one is: How can the Chamber of Labour be financially weakened? The financial weakening of the Chamber of Labour logically results in that it can no longer offer the services, the services it currently offers in the fields of consulting, legal advice, representation before the Labour and Social Court, consumer protection, tax advice, that it must reduce it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This is, of course, quite clearly due to the self-employed workers, the workers she has to represent, because it is obviously not only a question of having as good a right as possible, but also of being able to enforce these rights. This requires institutions, and the Chamber of Labour is exactly one of those institutions that help workers to enforce these rights. The numbers are known – or they would be known if you were interested in them. The fact is: A total of EUR 476 million is currently generated from the AK levy, which has already been mentioned. What the AK collects for its members in the context of processes is more than EUR 530 million, it makes two million deliberations per year, 86 000 legal representations. Every fifth AK member – that is, 20 percent of all AK members, namely those who are unemployed, minorly employed or in Karenz – does not pay an AK charge. They too are represented by the AK – members who could never afford a private legal representation, as they simply lack the money. The AK budget and the AK's solidary financing system guarantee precisely these groups, on the basis of their legal membership, that they have a corresponding representation and a strong representation of interests. It guarantees precarious employees, it guarantees poor qualified, it guarantees people who are particularly often affected by unemployment, people who have low incomes, a corresponding representation and appropriate support, advice and assistance in processes. I do not expect much from the FPÖ, but if a party, which is always called the only Truer and true Truer of liberal and bourgeois freedom rights, and who always likes to distribute in all directions, when it comes to the fact that others are not like that, when I speak now of the NEOS – the Chamber of Labour, which is a self-government body, whose bodies – I emphasize it again – are democratically elected, under the title of a command of objectivity and under threat of the reduction of resources, financial means, a muzzle, then I find that rather strange. There is no question at all that the AK is also politically criticised and can be criticized. We often do so enough when it comes to environmental issues when it comes to the representation of atypical employees or whatever happened. Yes, we have also partially criticized the AK for our view of wrong political position, or if it has represented something wrong, but: Criticism is one, sanctions take the other. All will have to be criticized: the AK, the Chambers, but also the political parties, from ÖVP on SPÖ, Greens, FPÖ and also the NEOS. Even if this criticism comes from the Chambers of Workers, one will have to do so. In conclusion: We Greens wish the Chamber of Workers all the best for its 100th anniversary. birthday. We Greens wish the Chamber of Labour for the next 100 years all the best for their struggle and commitment to social justice, for participation and equality. For us, the Chamber of Labour is a partner when it comes to socializing the necessary ecological change. In this sense: A clear yes from us to the Chamber of Workers forever!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19958	Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e19979	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! I would like to comment a little on the comments made by Mr Keck and by Mr Stöger, who is obviously not so powerful in the figures. Of the 500 million euros you've spent before, you've actually spent 132 million euros on your members. The fact is, you're fighting 200 million euros against yourself for your Chamber of Workers' Pensions. That's the point. So you work more for yourself and fight against yourself than for your members. This should not be ignored when it comes to; if you place large sums in space, you must also treat these amounts transparently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] With the social partners, it already has its relation, because the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce are not held in the 21st century. ==References== That's my point, too. When it comes to volunteering, it is about fighting for the members, I must admit to the Chamber of Workers that they are fighting for their members, which is not felt by the Chamber of Commerce. I think everyone's in the head, as it was at 9/11 at the time. We all know what we did back then. Everyone knows when he closes his eyes now, what he did at the time. I think the 9/11 day of the entrepreneur was the opera ball last week, because there, my rulers entrepreneurs, this Harald In-all-gassed Mahrer has said: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We treat the contributions of our members sparingly! I eat what someone drinks, where he dances – they should do everything on their own account – but I don't care if someone says cynically and perhaps satirically: We treat the contributions of our members sparingly! At that time when he said that, I was in my kitchen and suffered from the fact that we have a shortage of skilled workers, I suffered from having no cooking. - That's a point. What did you think, Mr. Hörl, when Mr. Mahrer said that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] As an entrepreneur, Axel Kassinger will have thought of something, the Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Matznetter, will have thought of something; I do not know about the Greens, since I do not know an entrepreneur who does not think so entrepreneurially. But the point is already: There are enough carpenters who have thought: Where's my discharge? Which invoice can I pay? Can I carry out my orders, handle them, finish them, I have enough staff? At the time when President Mahrer said: We are dealing sparingly with the membership contributions!, probably some installer also thought: The factor of work is quite heavily burdened – what has the Chamber of Commerce done for me? At this point, another one probably thought: discharge? Oh, you! For 30 years the ÖVP has been in the government, the Chamber of Commerce has always been under its influence, and nothing has gone on! What has happened here is 9/11 for every entrepreneur. I'm convinced that out there are loud entrepreneurs who have thought: He tells me that you are being sparingly dealing with my membership contributions – certainly not! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak.]] I'm sure not! Now I come to the numbers, and this has to be broken on the tongue: There is a Federal Chamber, nine Chambers of State, 70 Division Organisations and 857 specialized organizations. Of course, Mr Matznetter, we need 41 Vice-Presidents. – These are buffet presidents, nothing else, which are scattered at buffet openings from Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance, from Litschau to Hermagor, and that’s it. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl]] Now I'm calling a few more numbers: The Chamber of Commerce is certainly doing good work, the employees are doing good work, but why does it take 5,000 full-time employees to manage revenue of 1.9 billion euros, manage advertising expenditure of 15 million euros annually, have an advertising that is far higher than media promotion? In addition, there is a generous support to the Economic Parliament, as the Economic and Social Committee funds EUR 13.5 million. What does he need that for? What do we need that for? For a campaign or what? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] I'm not talking about the clubs that's understated yet. If every member knew that, then the cables would rip them, I'll guarantee you. And I'm not talking about external contracts like Pantarhei or anything else. You're getting really dizzy. Just watch it, it's all coming! That is why we have prepared six proposals and will still make these six requests because they are just as voluntary. We will make a request – you will advise – to abolish the membership of the Chamber of Economics. You once propagated: Mutify in New Times! - Where's your courage? If you're so good, you don't need to be a member of the duty, if you're so good, then the members run to you because you're running around the members. You don't. - Point one. Point two is the immediate removal of the chamber envelope 2. That would be a discharge. This would be a clear relief for every entrepreneur, for every micro-operator, who might have thought this evening – the 9/11 evening of entrepreneurs, the opera ball: They want to relieve me of it, they really intend to relieve me and sparingly deal with my money! Since President Sallinger said: We need help for needy micro-enterprises! This small-scale contribution to the Chamber 2 is precisely the burden that small entrepreneurs are sweating about whether they can or can't deliver their figures. Thirdly, we make a request on the subject of reserves: 1.7 billion euros the Chamber of Commerce hears – 1.7 billion euros from 2018! Refunds of EUR 2 500 have been deposited for each entrepreneur in that country. Why do you need that? – 500 euros are also enough! Return 2 000 euros per member, delete it! We will also make a request concerning a ceiling on advertisements for the Chamber of Commerce. 118 million euros in advertising expenses, the Chamber of Commerce throws out to make the media fit. We have to be so honest! It is! Or what do you want to tell me? Today I read a large ad in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that is now an economic chamber election. - We know that! You don't need to tell me that I have to go to the election. That's completely absurd! We also need transparency in the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce creates its own rules and controls itself. I never thought I'd quote Mr. Pilz with the crack sausage and the dail: You still got it under control, the dample controls its crack sausage itself. [[Abg. Wöger: If you have a ghite!]] That is the case with you, you control yourself, so we need an extension of the audit powers of the Court of Auditors. I'm right, yeah! We also need a democratic reform in the Chamber of Commerce, which is the last request we make: a decommissioning of chamber organisations, a division of interests in sectors and a revision of the right to vote. In order for citizens to know how a chamber election works: We actually choose the municipal council, and the outcome of this election determines who will be President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] So absurd is that, that goes up over layers – cascade system is called that! That's self-confidence you're doing! [[Abg. Wöger: For God's sake!]] Then I still hear from the Vienna Chamber of Commerce: We do not do digital voting cards or digital voting rights anyway, because otherwise the other political groups are driving us around the ears! – That's not how it is! We need voluntaryness, be courageous! Be proud of what you have done, dear representatives of the Chamber of Commerce! If you are so good, then the members run to you and not to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20080	Mr Muchich. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20114	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! It is not an actual correction to the statements concerning the Chamber of Commerce, but to those concerning the Chamber of Workers. Member of the Schellhorn has claimed that the AK has taken 200 million euros for its own pensions. I'm correcting: In 2019 alone, more than 500 million euros were spent on employees in Austria. That's exactly what makes NEOS so hurt. - Bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20162	Mr Hammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20184	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! After this free-of-charge promotion to the Chamber of Commerce of Mr Schellhorn – because it was quite a lot more than that, your unqualified cancellations concerning the Chamber of Commerce – I say: I believe that, as an entrepreneur, one should be proud of an institution such as the Chamber of Commerce, which has already done many homeworks in its own field, which has really been well positioned and arrived in modernity. [[Abg. Loacker: with 5,000 employees!]] This is exactly what makes the Austrian social partners strong, and the Economic Chamber has always been a leader in it. That's what you should say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was also due purely to the election of the Chamber of Commerce, because the agenda items we are discussing here today are dealing with the Chamber of Labour. You didn't refer to that. [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's it! I did!]] I think we should all make a clear commitment to the social partners and their merits. For 100 years the Chamber of Labour and Social Affairs has been addressed. I think it was precisely this balance of interests that made Austria always strong accordingly. Whatever we confess ourselves to is self-management, and of course self-management also means self-responsibility. It was also important for us in the reform of social security to ensure this self-government accordingly. [[Abg. Vogl: This is a joke!]] That is why NEOS's requests in this area are too large for us, because they are too massive an intervention in self-management and also self-responsibility. In such discussions one tends to see everything particularly one-sided. I think you should say one thing, too. Of course, in many areas the Chamber of Labour is doing good work for the workers, who should also be there, and we also appreciate it accordingly. This does not mean, however, that there is no need for any change there and that some of the points raised in NEOS's requests as criticism do not have their right. Some workers' chambers and, above all, their presidents do not always comply with what is expected of an extra-partial and impartial representation of interests. Salzburg and Upper Austria were addressed. It was also mentioned that the workers' chambers of law must, of course, be objective and extra-partial, but some workers' chambers, such as those in Upper Austria and Salzburg, act like the advance organisations of the SPÖ. Studies are commissioned there to pay ads to develop the topics that SPÖ intends to pursue accordingly. This is not what members who pay contributions expect. [[Abg. Belakovich: Then you can agree to the request!]] It is understandable to a certain extent: If you look at the state of SPÖ in these federal states, you can see that the Chamber of Labour is there holding the existing backbone, which still works half way to advance SPÖ work. The reserves have also been addressed. Because of the employment situation – we have the highest employment – the Chamber of Labour is of course lucky that the sum of contributions increases accordingly. However, I do not believe that this should prevent the money being really sparingly handled, and that reforms and internal savings are also being implemented, without this leading to a reduction in performance, because all this is done if some measures are backed back. This also means that the invoice data is really published objectively, because as a business administrator I am already saying: The compressed version, presented by Mr Stöger, is really a fake, because there is no point in reading what the money is spent on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Well, you can do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are committed to the social partners, also to the corresponding self-government bodies, but internal homework is also to be done in the Chamber of Labour, and this discussion is to be held.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20280	Mrs Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20301	Mr President. Minister of Finance! Dear High House! Estimated audience, even in front of the screens! That was a pretty bashing of the chambers now. There is this picture of the glass – you probably know it, the glass that is half full or half empty. [[The speaker pours water into a drinking glass.]] – Now it is even more than half full. The glass you've shown now is half empty, actually you already poured it out from my point of view, threw it to the ground. [[Abg. Loacker: Numbers, anyway, we have to do the full thing!]] [[Abg. Worm: If it's cheap!]] There is nothing left of the chambers and of the social partners and of what is important to us. For me, the glass is half full. I would like to look at the good that the Chambers offer, what the social partners offer and what they have done in recent decades: Community policy, environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection, environmental protection I would like to thank the Chambers for this very decisively. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Chambers mean representing the interests of workers, employers and balancing interests, trying to find consensus in economic and social policy matters. And that's what it's all about: Consensus and participation with the government. That is the first thing that really works well in the international comparison from my point of view, and we all know that. We have relatively few strikes compared to other countries. What is the alternative if we do not have chambers that democratically legitimately cooperate? – Then there are the powerful who can bring themselves in, the rich, or the lobbyists, companies that can finance it. [[Abg. Loacker: As in Sweden and Denmark!]] That's not what we want. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] An up-to-date example: Yesterday, the Council of Ministers decided that parts of the government programme would be implemented, in particular – which I personally care about – the possibility of decommissioning the working room, the undefined workplace. This was a major concern of individuals who often do not have jobs working from home. They have joined the government negotiations in the form of the Chamber of Commerce, including in the form of the Green Economy. You don't have a lobby. 60 percent of Austrian companies are individual companies without lobbys, and they have been able to contribute and contribute in this way. A third point: It was mentioned that the entrepreneurs as members of the Chamber are so dissatisfied. – The numbers, however, draw a different picture: Entrepreneurships are satisfied with the performance of the Chamber. [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's why 30 percent go to the vote!]] There are studies and these show that entrepreneurs rated the Chamber in school notes on an average scale of 1 to 5, between 1 and 2. So you are satisfied with the services of the Chamber. Young companies are particularly satisfied, this shows a study from Vorarlberg. 97 percent of the companies consulted recommend the consultations because they are so satisfied. [[Abg. Loacker: Study or survey at your own...?]] They give average note 1.2. This means that companies are satisfied and also benefit from the benefits, which is more than 50 percent more than once a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I told you earlier, the glass is half full for me, but it's not full; and I'll give you the right. There is a need for improvement, but improvements in democratisation and transparency are not achieved by pouring out the whole glass, but you go, you choose, you choose alternatives that offer improvements, and so design democratically. [[Intervening calls from Deputies Worm and Loacker]] [[Call:But no one]] That's what I'm calling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20431	Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20474	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[A parliament official brings the speaker a glass of water.]] [[Abg. Light peace: Is there no mineral water?]] One can, of course, enter into the house here for a discussion of a social partners' organisation. The fact that the time Mr Schellhorn has chosen may have something to do with the election of the Chamber of Commerce next week will probably be pure coincidence and will certainly have nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Scherak: Random!]] [[Call:Total]] One can, of course, have an argument about a social-security organisation here – one should also say that there are legal provisions and framework conditions for the chambers which are decided here – and one can do so in a very qualified and differentiated way, as Mrs Götze has done, or in an inconvenient way like Mr Schellhorn. If you use the term “buffet presidents” or now, for the x-th time, strapple the spell with the sausage and the dail, this may somehow cause everything at the stem table to occur, perhaps also in your ranks here, but a serious debate is not that. I'd like something else. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scherak: The President-General wasn't here either!]] Yes, the compulsory membership in Austria in the professional interest representations – in the Chamber of Labour, in the notaries, in lawyers, doctors, as well as in the commercial economy – is something that exists in Europe only in a few countries. [[Abg. Schellhorn: A few countries? Which one?]] But if we look at the results of the contribution to economic and social compensation that the Chambers have made in this country over the last decades, this is certainly a uniqueness or something that, as I have said, does not exist in many countries. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Loading opening, commercial law!]] I am very proud that we have this in our country. In fact, a party like yours, which liberally calls itself, would have to agree to this idea of self-management – and it is behind the consideration of the mandatory and thus comprehensive membership of a particular professional group or social group in that country. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Voluntary!]] The idea behind this is that the state does not do everything, but that civil society organisations and professional group organisations also take over state tasks. The Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce as well as its professional representatives perform a number of tasks that the State would otherwise have to do. [[Abg. Loacker: Toggle ads, additional pensions...!]] It's a profoundly liberal thought that's behind it. That's what you're against? – I can’t understand that, I really can’t understand that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Would the state otherwise buy the securities?]] The representation of the professional group in question is of course quite different if it is carried out in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner. This gives the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the Notaries and whoever is able to represent the interests of a particular group towards politics – and that is what it is about at the end of the day. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Or for politics, for! But the Secretary-General... not to him!]] Of course, you need a corresponding weight and a position at eye level. This comprehensive capacity of representation, of course, gives the stakeholders the opportunity to face up to the policy and thus to represent the interests of this grouping in the sense of social and economic compensation, to be effectively represented, and in practice it is indeed taking place. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hamann.]] However, I also say that this legal membership, this compulsory membership must also necessarily impose certain obligations on the Chambers – that is, a commitment to economy, to the expediency of dealing with funds and also a commitment to transparency. [[Abg. Scherak: Opera ball visit!]] The Chambers have long been regularly examined by the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] We, the chambers, of course make our accounts public after completion, we put them on the net. The Court of Auditors shall examine them. [[Abg. Schellhorn: There is an evaluation!]] – They were in the Chamber of Commerce yesterday, Mr Schellhorn, and, of course, they have not only been shown a financial statements by my deputy, but have also been handed over. [[Abg. Schellhorn: No, it's not true!]] You can understand our actions, that's no problem at all. You even praised it very much in a brief conversation with me earlier that it happened so. In this respect, too, we have not blamed ourselves at all, for example, that we would be intrusive or that the chambers would not comply with their commitment to transparency, because they are compulsory contributions at the end of the day. Maybe one last thing: If you want to be fluffy, if you want to be cool, if you want to make some casual remark, it is all nice to criticize Chamber President Harald Mahrer for his visit to opera ball. [[Abg. Lightness:... Visit!]] The opera ball is an institution in Austria that you would have to invent if it didn't exist. The opera ball is an instrument for the presentation of Austrian cultural art, an institution as it rarely exists anywhere in the world. [[Abg. Kickl: That's true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] This ball brings together economic operators, artists, people of public life from all over the world, thus offering a window to the world and is thus an advertising instrument for Austria and the location Austria. [[Call:Well then]] I do not want to miss this instrument. And because so many economic operators are there from Germany and abroad, because so many personalities of public life are there, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, of course, also belongs there as a participant! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Not... I have criticized the sentence!]] There is nothing to point out about this at all, because the President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce is also a part of public life, is a representative of public life and does a lot of day by day to represent Austrian entrepreneurs here in the country, but also abroad. 60 percent of our economic performance and thus our prosperity are generated abroad. The Austrian Chamber of Commerce and its President-in-Office are making an enormous contribution to the prosperity that this country and its people enjoy in this country – through this external representation. [[Abg. Kickl: He deserves good too!]] And that's what you want to do? [[Abg. Schellhorn: Not at all!]] – Generate You're for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20806	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - It's not like that. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 47 of the supplements. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues, on the disclosure of the full accounts of the Chamber. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 48 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 49 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. [[16:12:03]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 195/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Labour and Social Court Law (50 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20898	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Loacker is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e20925	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In June and September 2019, i.e. with the national Council elections in view, here in the house the pension gifts have been generously distributed in all directions and from almost all sides. The old government had already fallen, the transitional government was politically a lightweight because it had no restraint here in the house, so the majority of parliament has tried to buy the voter's vote with gifts from the largest constituency group. There has been: a EUR 1 200-pension for all those who have worked for 40 years – even if they have worked 39 years in another country and one year with us, they now receive EUR 1 200 –; a double pension increase for those with small pensions – that goes abroad over half; the abolition of the waiting period for the first pension increase and, of course, very important and very large – the reintroduction of the discount-free early pension to provide an incentive for people with the lowest age to retire. So, in 2019, the money was obviously just out of the political banknote and had to be distributed. The fact that these decisions for a few years sum up costs in the billions area, that was ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ, and if the Greens had been here, they would have taken part in this salad. In this gift-owner, not only gross inconsistencies have happened, but also formal errors. We have this stuff on the agenda today: because the law is so badly written that the pension insurance institution cannot even pay this gift. So the young generations who are shown to be less able to get out of this pension system than those who are in retirement in these days have been hit by an ordinary billions of burdens, which they have to finance with taxes and contributions, and those who are now in retirement at better conditions have been given a little bit of it. We know that pensions will be 20 percent lower in 20 years than today, measured at the replacement rate. Well, that's the new justice that Sebastian Kurz spoke of, I think, and back there the mandates and mandates of the young ÖVP, who are so committed to the young people and absolutely want to have a pension reform so that we can have some of it in 20 or 30 years. - Nothing, nothing! Once they have moved into the High House, they sing the song of the Senior Confederation with: The pensions are they-hi-hi-cher. [[singing]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Next comes the only speaker of the ÖVP – the only speaker of the ÖVP! – Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler to the speaker's desk, the head of the Carinthian Senior Federation. That's what it's all about! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is always about client policy for the people who are already old, and the boys are completely forgotten. But you've overlooked that it's a balance. The generation contract requires a balance between the old and the boys, and it is not always possible to distribute between the boys and the old and to distribute a little more each year – but that's exactly what you do. There are the people of the boy ÖVP but mouse silence and the senior speaker may step outside and explain the election gifts to his own clientele. This is the only contribution of the ÖVP to pensions: zero comma zero. Let's go to the specialist: The chairman of the Pensions Commission Walter Pöltner – unwarranted to be kind to my party in any way – says that this gift of early retirement pension is a thing of the past. The head of the AMS Johannes Kopf – he belongs to the party rather in this direction – also says that belongs away. [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] And the head of the Institute for Higher Studies Martin Kocher also says that belongs away. We have made a request to eliminate these constituencies again, and we will see today how seriously you take the experts. But one can also assume: Experts may say everything under the government In short, if they feel that they are short, and otherwise they should be more calm. The Social Minister – unfortunately he is not here; the pensions are not important enough to him – has meant that we have a demographic problem and therefore the cost of care will rise. – That’s quite exciting, yes: We have a demographic problem with the care, but we don't have one at the pensions! So somehow they get older, but the pensioners stay young forever. I don't know how he does this in his head, but either we have a demographic problem, then we have one everywhere, or we don't have one. To have only one in the care of one, but not at the pensions, there is that in the Anschober's fantasies, but not in reality. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] All of you – you will vote against us afterwards, against our few votes by NEOS – are just about one thing: You don't think of the boys sitting here on the gallery and watching us, you don't think what's going to be in 20, 30, 40 years, but you think of the next Sunday of the election; and there are black, blue and red exactly the same. It would take a little courage to work for a fair system, but you only know one category in your political action: the next election Sunday.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21022	Mrs Scheucher-Pichler has been reported to speak – already announced by the previous speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21043	Yes, thank you, Mr President, for not always being announced by the previous speaker. I don't like the way you discuss this. [[towards Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Loacker: How generous!]] It's a little suffocating, with the senior song, with the boys who don't have anything to talk to us. – Yes, we thank God a lot of boys. [[Abg. Loacker: But they're not talking!]] We stand for a cross-generational relationship. We have the seniors, but we also have the youth behind us, and it depends on that. We'll work together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I've been bothering me for a long time that this is always so discussed – here, but also in other areas, sometimes also in the media – that you try to play the boys against the older ones, or do it. That's not the right way. We need youth, we need the elderly, and only together will we face the challenges we face. I would also like to tell you one thing, Mr President, because you have made a bit of fun of it: Thank God we are getting older, thank God! This is the greatest achievement of this time. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the SPÖ representatives, as well as the Agg. Ribo.]] 100 years ago it was impossible to imagine so many people getting so old. We from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will at least continue to work to ensure that the older generation can grow old in dignity and in good quality of life. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ribo.]] We thank God for a Commission on Pensions – you have already mentioned it – which is doing good work that we take seriously, and we may then hear what the Pensions Commission says to you and to the other requests that still come here today. It is positive – and we have discussed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs – that: Yeah, it's true, there's been a mistake. That can happen, too. Anyone who works and achieves something good can make a mistake, but we have gone through it without the votes of NEOS, the SPÖ has voted in favour, the Greens have voted in favour of it, the Liberals have voted in favour of it, we have tabled an amendment, and have also made it clear how the right of compensation continues. We have received a lot of criticism in the senior organizations. Ingrid Korosec, our President, has immediately become active there, but I think it has happened to all other senior representatives. There have been letters, calls, because it was not understood why in this area there is only an increase of 0.49 euros. That certainly wasn't the goal. It's about the so-called spouse's judgment. The guide rate has been increased by 5.2 percent grossly from 1.1.2020 onwards. The aim was to ensure that the compensation beneficiaries concerned did not suffer a net loss of income due to the simultaneous abolition of the tax exemption in respect of the compensation allowance. The background to this scheme is the objective of the tax equalisation of persons with equal pensions in the future. In accordance with this application, the indicative rate for the 2020 calendar year should be multiplied retroactively by the factor 1.036. This initiative has now achieved a further increase of 3.6% in gross value added. This is a group of compensation beneficiaries who are now receiving a net increase of 35,92 euros, and I think that is more than justified. We're on it! Sebastian Kurz and the New People's Party have said quite clearly: We specifically want to upgrade the low pensions! - And we do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I say it again: We need youth, but we also need the seniors. Seniors are an important factor in society. I look at the compatibility of work and family, I look at many areas in society: without seniors who make an important contribution there, it was not possible. We will therefore continue to use the interests of the older generation as a senior representative, but also as a new Austrian People's Party, which has made a decisive contribution to Austria's being one of the richest countries in the world today, and that we in Austria, despite many problems that exist there and there – no question – that we will solve, live in very high prosperity; this is especially true of the older generation accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21124	I welcome the student group of the Adalbert-Stifter-Gymnasium in Linz. That's the second group that's here today. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21154	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, not only today's debate, but above all what happened last autumn, as a young Member of Parliament – and I do not understand why it is not the same for the other young Members – I feel particularly distressing and embarrassing just after the first months here in the House. At a time when we have the recent Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the most recent Chancellor of the world, I believe that, by the way, a few years ago quite exactly what we say too, a decision will be taken just weeks before the election of ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ, which has been qualified as a Husch-pusch law by all experts. Now, this Husch-pusch-law is being tried to repair with a Husch-pusch-amendment, according to the motto: Minus and Minus are going to be Plus. - We're definitely not going to go there. Everyone is currently talking about sustainability, and this is very good, but it can't be a rose pick, when you stick to the flags and when you don't. Our pension system is referred to by renowned international newspapers as one of the most unsustainable pension systems in the European Union. You leave the young generation, our boy completely in the dark, just as Mr Loacker has already mentioned, because you do everything for it. This is incredibly short-sighted and irresponsible. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is not the same as the previous speaker of the ÖVP has said, but just as Mr Loacker has already said. It's not a young-to-old, that's not what we're talking about. It is an accusation to you that these retirement elections have decided on these cheap electoral policies, and one that all the experts – Wifo, IHS, Agenda Austria and even the head of the Pension Insurance Commission – who, I believe, is not very close to us – are making opposite policies. We're not talking about Peanuts. It is EUR 20 billion, which we add annually to the pension system, and the long-term budget forecast shows that these payments will explode to EUR 30 billion. I brought you something to illustrate what sizes this is all about. We see here the budget 2019 two bars, two comparator beams; once the green beams, the investments in environment, energy and climate, 0.6 billion euros in 2019. [[a panel with the graphic described below in height]] The black beams are the pensions. [[The speaker unfolds the panel, on which a black beam with the triple length becomes visible.]] [[Call the SPÖ: For people!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Yes, that's how much we spend on pensions every year, and the 2019 election gifts are not included. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kollross]] [[Abg. Vogl: What is the problem?]] The money in here is missing for the important investment in the future. [[Interchange calls at SPÖ and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Hanger.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] This money, these billions, is missing for large future investments in education, science and climate protection. These issues are the hardest of all, even though the young, for example young families in working life, are already at risk of poverty. My appeal to you, to the ÖVP, to the FPÖ, to the SPÖ, but also to the Greens, is: Turn off this responsible policy and start to make sure that our pension system will fit for the future! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again.]] That is why we are making several applications today, first of all: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition, we are submitting an amendment that has been distributed in the hall, which has the content of taking back the pension election gifts from autumn 2019 and what was then decided on to Husch-Fuch, to repair properly and not as it is being tried today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:27]] The applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21543	The applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified to the European Parliament and to the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21568	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Today we are actually discussing a SPÖ proposal that we have made available so that what happened under black and blue last year can be repaired. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, wait, I'm on it too! It's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I believe that the important thing is to relieve the beneficiaries of the smallest income, namely family law. This is about 50 euros a month that these people get more – and above all they get it retroactively more. That means we fix something here, and sometimes, if you have to fix something, you say, that was a punch. This brings me to another story, and I might have to pick up a little before I submit our amendment. We have experienced that Mr. Wirtschaftskammer President – and it was carnival time, this is always a bit of an exceptional situation in our country – has tried to be funny in a perhaps very western mood and to somehow sell the 40 000 euros spent by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and the Vienna Chamber of Commerce for a log at the opera ball. We know that the President of the Chamber of Commerce has many talents, but I think being funny is not one of his main talents. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Drozda.]] Now, of course, another economic operator is trying to jump into the break for him right away, he has tried to protect him. As it is then, when Alphamännchen meet, a little bit of a district behavior is also displayed and then you may even tighten up against the industrial union. That's kind of a match where you like to stank and say: Now look over there, they don't know how to deal with the money, the drunk champagne, we're so economical anyway! [[Abg. Scherak: It is voluntary with them, especially!]] But where the story becomes a bit problematic, if you do something in this heated atmosphere at once, which from my point of view is no longer in order, if you suddenly take the Chamber of Labour into the boat and say: And if you want to see really big champagne bottles, then go to the Chamber of Workers!, so if there is consciously a lie on television. What really bothered me with the whole thing – my colleague, the speech before was very fine – is from my point of view this cry, which it would have taken at that time to protect the social partners from this unjust criticism, knowing that a lie has been told. One should have said immediately: That's not all right. That's not all right. The reason why I'm telling the story so much is that I'm afraid God's story is somehow known to me as such. One simply claims things that do not vote: So there's the worker's chamber log with the champagne. – From the past there is still such a memory: There is a functional billion – we can remember that the functionaries are so expensive – there are so many service cars. Do we know this story? – We all know that in retrospect, everything did not vote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] I believe that the next major repair measure is ahead of us in Austria. [[The speaker places a panel around the speaker's desk.]] At that time, when we took over the social security of Schwarz-Blau I in 2008 – right, the red figures are always above, you are perfectly right – we took over a minus of 1.8 billion euros. [[Abg. Scherak: Markus, you have to turn it around!]] [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] [[the table correctly]] [[A chart with a blue, a red and a blue-green bar can be seen on the table entitled “Financial situation of general health insurance from 2000 to 2024”.]] We have managed to achieve a surplus of 800 million euros in Austrian social security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now comes the next repair. That's to say, next to what we're repairing right now, this big repair comes here. A minimum of up to 1.7 billion euros threatens the Austrian health insurance funds. As the law states that, if you don't have money, you are forced to introduce, among other things, restraints, you have to ask the question of who at the end decides whether we as an insured person, who can pay nothing for all the insanity that you employed there, all at once. They are the same employers who stand in an opera balllog and are funny there, who then decide whether the insured people in that country have to pay their own reserves. I don't think that's possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This would prevent people from buying self-holds in the health insurance fund in the future, which is precisely responsible for that. I think that's good and that's fair. Perhaps a small note – we will then make a request, because the self-retaining of the small self-employed from our point of view is also unsocial: Who believes that you want to make a little different policy especially for the small self-employed: Our former colleague Doris Margreiter is in Upper Austria ready for the election of the Chamber of Commerce. I think it is a good voice for the many diligent small entrepreneurs in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:33]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21789	The amendment has been properly tabled and is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Margreiter, not the Chamber of Economics officer from Upper Austria, has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21819	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors on the gallery and via media! [[Abg. Belakovich: (in the direction of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Aschbacher) Mrs. Minister! What is it?]] This issue concerns me twice: Once a day, as a lawyer, I am engaged in taking laws into my hands to work with them. Unfortunately, it is always happening – and this is then very annoying – that laws, even before they enter into force, must be novelled because they are not applicable. I'm always wondering – I'm in the House for a short while now, but I've been working as a legal user for a long time: How can such a thing happen? How can it happen that, in this House, where it is expected that, even if generally binding standards are adopted, they will be adopted with the necessary care, laws which are not enforceable will be put into effect? We are now facing this problem: How can it happen that such a husk-push-law comes about? I almost want to say that is the curse of evil deeds, when you make laws out of hips, because you want to distribute any gifts out of very transparent motives. And now you're gonna put a little on it. - It can't be! Secondly, I am concerned because it is always tried to play the generations against each other in this pension debate. The advocates of these measures are the lawyers of the older generation. Older Generation? – I may be a XL boomer, the pension is already visible on the horizon, but I say as a affected person: I am not interested in a pension that goes at the expense of the young generation, which goes at the expense of the generation of colleague Shetty. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think I really speak on behalf of these boomers plus. This is quite natural, the older generation wants it to go well for the younger generation and not that it will then be faced with empty pension funds and, if it itself is in the situation that it needs an old age pension, must take note: After that! There's nothing left! - It can't be. Therefore: Let us distance ourselves from such populist quick shots – for two reasons: content, because we cannot afford it, and formally, because it is extremely detrimental to the rule of law and legal certainty, if we adopt laws that we need to renovate in the husch-push process, which we need to repair! It can't be. - Thank you, Hohes Haus.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21869	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21895	Mr President, before you take up my speaking time: I would like to make a request for the Rules of Procedure. The Minister for Labour has left the hall, and she has also agreed with you. However, we are in the middle of the debate, so I am making the request for the Minister's accession. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Worm: Yes!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Let them drink coffee!]] – She agreed, she left. She didn't go for coffee. It has packed its documents, has agreed with the President and has gone.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e21986	May I ask for the word? [[Abg. Belakovich: We are in the voting process!]] According to § 18 of the Rules of Procedure – I have just checked which paragraph is – I shall have to vote immediately on the creation of the Minister for Women. [[Abg. Belakovich: Indescribable!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – I would ask that you at least keep your peace in the vote! [[Abg. Hauser: That was time!]] [[The President gives the bell sign.]] Who for - - – Again: [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[The President again gives the bell sign.]] Whoever is in favour of this request for Mrs Minister's accession, I ask him to rise from his place. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP for the again entering the hall Federal Minister Aschbacher.]] [[The President again gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] On business management, Mr Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22117	Mr President, I think we have now experienced an example of how party leadership of this House works, namely to wait so long to delay until the colleagues of the ÖVP – wherever they have been – could be quoted, and then even when the vote was dubious, as it was supposed to be, to say immediately that it would have been rejected. [[continued applause with SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Where it's not going!]] Mr President, this is not a super-party leadership of this House!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22158	Mr Klubobmann's representative, please note that, if I hold a vote, I shall also be legally sure of the point of departure of the Rules of Procedure and have no delay. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Now I am speaking, you can then report to the floor! I accept your remarks, but I see clearly that it was not a delaying tactic on my part, from the Bureau, but that, if there is no rest – and I have experienced it in the hall before – it will come to a new count at the end of the day. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] I should like to point out that there must be so much discipline that, as chairman, one sees clearly who is here and what vote is required. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22220	Thank you, Mrs. Minister, for coming back. You are relatively new, perhaps you did not know that you should be here during the whole debate. . My criticism, Mr President, has been addressed to you before, because you have adopted them. But now back to the content: We have decided here, with the exception of NEOS, that after 40 years of work, the increased compensation allowance rate should amount to EUR 1 200 per person. However, what went down legally at the time is the fact that there are couples living from a single small pension – and that is the repair: That's 1,500 euros for a couple. That is what this request is specifically about. However, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to say once again, especially today, by Mr Loacker, to say: It is by no means such that the pensions will eat us all, that all pensions are only uncertain and that there is a redistribution of young to old. And if I look at what your young colleague has spread out here today, I don't know what he wanted to say. Should we cut all the pensions now? Should we take the pensions away from the people? This is a debate about the Emperor Bart you're holding here. Of course, those who are in retirement are also entitled to obtain them. Our Austrian pensions are also safe, it has also fallen the pension insurance contribution in recent years. This has to be said here; of course, it has been the good economic situation and the high employment rate, and it is also the goal - I hope this Federal Government too - to keep employment in Austria high. I hope that's the goal of every politician, that's what I'm going to expect. – Listening So, at last, please stop worrying people so that they get a lot of fear and what you've told us here may believe and be afraid that they won't get any more pensions! Now – and this is in the direction of the current government parties – the age pension at 62 years at 540 working months: This is not a gift, but it concerns people who have worked for many years. This is not about replacement months, it is about definite working hours. There are not many who bring this together, and I cannot understand why this government wants to take the people who have worked it back immediately, because it is also a kind of justice that we owe to this long-term insured person. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is something I really ask that you really take it with you and think about yourself. That's where I appeal to the greens. Mr Koza has defended the Chamber of Workers here today, on the other hand he has acted as an employee traitor in the committee, for he has said that a sixth week of vacation is unthinkable for him if it is not used for training. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Koza and Mr Schalmeiner.]] – No, you said that, Mr Koza. They did not vote in favour, but they were there at the time of the adjournment. For the Greens, a sixth holiday week generally does not come into question, those were your words. So stop it! You're selling here, you're sitting here in front of the ÖVP flat on the ground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Or you don't take what you say seriously yourself – that's the second option. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic:... listen carefully!]] Well, that's what you have to decide for yourself now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We as the Freedom Party stand for this. We're the social home party. We are the party for those who are diligent in the land who work in the land. We are on the side of the workers, and we will also continue to fight for all workers to have a sixth holiday week, not only those who fit the green into the stall. We will also continue to fight for the so-called hackler regime to remain upright and that it will not be abolished with the help of the Greens – by a government of rich people for rich people.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22281	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22302	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Worm: It's in the record, your statement!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] First of all, to the liberals: If you're a workers' party, I'll eat a broomstick, from me also from a German oak! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Good appetite!]] Second to the NEOS: One does not want to believe it, but to pay Grandma and Grandpa a pension from which they can live, and to finance climate protection measures, that is feasible, that is compatible. We do not have to delete Omi and Grandpa in order to be able to protect the climate in the future. [[Abg. Loacker: No one said that!]] That's not necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ecological issues and social issues are known to be closely related and cannot be considered separately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] Now on the subject: A number of pension schemes were known to be adopted in September, whose quality and content are quite controversial to date. Mistakes have also happened. An error concerns the increase in the compensatory allowance rate. This is something like a life assurance in old age, a minimum of existence in old age, in this case for couples, which – if not fixed – would have been practically shortened this existential pension for couples. What I found very exciting in solving this error was – I have already reported it today – that, for example, like many others, we have experienced this from directly interested parties and that, fortunately, all parties – that is, almost all parties – were quite ready to act accordingly and to fix it. I would also like to thank the SPÖ and FPÖ for having made their request that this was also relatively simple and easy in the Committee, otherwise we should have waited until April and then the pensioners concerned should have waited until they get their money. Now this mistake has been reversed, that is, there are no cuts. The basis of existence is secured. This has also shown that it makes sense and is good if people who are directly affected by laws also immediately report to their representatives in Parliament and say: Something happened! Is that really what you wanted? – It can actually happen something like that, and you then improve the mistakes from which you can learn. In this respect, I am pleased that we have now resolved this mistake of anno, because it is precisely older people, who are at the poverty line, who deserve to be sure that they have a life assurance and can age in dignity that it is possible for them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22389	Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22411	Mr President. Mrs. Minister, I'm glad you're back here! The Committee is always a very exciting committee. It is about whole, very important things and things that concern all Austrians. You might want to explain some of the things that happened last week. Back again: 45 years of work must and should be enough. We have tabled a proposal together with the Social Democrats, since the German army and the years 1953 to 1957 should also be included in this regulation. This request was rejected by Green and Black. In addition, in the discussion in the Committee it has become quite clear that the ÖVP obviously also wants to abolish this 45-year rule. The fact that the Greens, as we have seen today, have taken a good hand in all these social issues and march with the ÖVP, I do not even find myself funny anymore, but actually only tragic, but with this the Greens have to live, unfortunately God, but probably also the entire Austrian population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic]] Second sector, labour shortage keyword: I would like to mention here again the current unemployment figures in Austria from January: There are 420 000 unemployed people in Austria – 420 000! About a quarter of a million people are in the area of minimum security and about 150,000 are in the emergency area. However, there is a lack of labour. [[Abg. Weratschnig: That's why the AK should be abolished?- Oh, my God!]] The other story, the sixth week after 25 years, has already been explained by my colleague. I clearly believe that all private employees can hardly reach these 25 years in a company in today's practice. This scheme applies mainly to workers in state and semi-governmental employers. I believe that private employees in the private sector have also deserved to receive a sixth week of holiday after 25 years of work. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers – the Minister of the Interior was there – was: The changes regarding the red-and-white red card are becoming quite exciting. What that means is a little silent in the press right now, namely: This is really the final opening of the labour market for the whole world. Wage and social dumping has reached medium-sized levels. The most important information or innovations are brief: The minimum income was reduced to around EUR 1 800 net. It is no longer necessary to prove an apartment when you come to Austria as an employee from third countries. It is no longer necessary to make this request at the Embassy abroad, which can now be done in Austria. Also interesting, but not surprising with the partner Greene: The languages German and English are the same. That means that it is no longer required that you can read German, but it is enough if you can get English. This is the great offensive of the ÖVP together with the Greens to remedy the so-called labour shortage in Austria. [[Abg. You have no wish.]] What's going to happen? – It is perfectly clear: The wage dumping is increasing and everyone is watching and playing. As you explain this to the workers, I look at it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, however, I have to bring the SPÖ into the boat – this is also the drama of history – because of what happened in Tyrol on the initiative of social democracy and with the consent of all other parties except the Freeman: They also want to postpone the deportation of asylum seekers who have not received an asylum notice but who are in teaching or training somewhere, Mrs Yildirim. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] You have to explain something. I have had the pleasure of playing through these cases, which are referred to here, once in terms of red and white red card, with the new system which Mrs Minister put to the vote yesterday in the Council of Ministers: Suddenly, those unqualified who can't get German, but perhaps English, will reach this red-white red-card point scheme accordingly. I say it again: This is now finally the step in which all parties participate except the FPÖ. We are the only party looking at Austrian workers, and I hope the population will also honour this in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22484	Mrs Yildirim spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22509	In his speech, Mr Peter Wurmhat said that all the parties in Tyrol have requested, with the exception of FPÖ, that asylum seekers who are in education or teaching are not affected by the deportation, so that there should be a deportation stop. - That's wrong. The right thing is that a petition has been launched and a resolution has also been submitted by SPÖ, which does not prevent asylum seekers currently in nursing training from being postponed. That is the actual content of the request, and I would ask you to read it thoroughly before you make flat-rate claims.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22542	I should like to welcome the third group of the Adalbert-Stifter-Gymnasium to us. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22572	Mr President, I am also pleased that today you have met the Rules of Procedure in such a way that the next vote on the creation of the European Parliament is immediate. - I'm looking forward to it. Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm glad you're here with us! You are not actually responsible for this subject complex and the majority of the house did not want to see you – do not take it personally. [[Abg. Wöginger: You've already gotten that!]] We are pleased when you attend our discussion. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Abg. Wooker: I'm going!]] I voted for you to be here. I would just like to tell you at this point; I do not want to be rude. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now let's get to the matter ourselves! On behalf of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I mean, that's a short deal, because when I look in the ranks, I have to say it's not a single person here who'll be working 45 years from the date he's going to get a pension. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Hae? Have you ever dealt with me?- Oh, my God!]] [[More calls at the NEOS:Hä? Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] – Well, Sepp Schellhorn, we admit that he may have worked on it, the rest will not reach it because of the academic ratio. Therefore, a brief appeal to the propriety of colleagues: Those who have received excellent training in their lives in the country should then not make the mood for old age poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] People who have built the country that has worked for 45 years should be allowed to retire free of charge. That's good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Can you do this...?]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] However, I would like to address another very important aspect. We have been talking for a long time today about a medical crisis with regard to the threat from the corona virus, and one has to say that the best response of a society and a civilisation to it is an excellent health system that is down-to-earth and can be used for free immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] Why? – Because, if this is free, medical assistance is quickly available at the first symptom, so that therapy takes more quickly, and then the chances of healing are higher, the duration of healing is shorter and the costs in the system are lower. Punishment taxes or restraints are fundamentally opposed to this. We have a real request that the self-holds in the field of ASVG should not come, but I also represent a group of 100,000 self-employed who pay tax when they are ill. That must be done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For 15 years I have wanted the abolition and for 15 years an ÖVP majority in the Chamber of Commerce has been voting with No. Walter Ruck, the leading candidate of the ÖVP Economics Federation in Vienna, wants to reintroduce the chamber members in Vienna instead of abolishing this nonsense. [[Abg. Loacker: A super bureaucracy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] - A madness, the bureaucracy! Mr Loacker is right! There you go to the doctor – but if you want to have the reduction, you do a health plan – then you have to go again, then you have to submit the certificate and then you may get a little refund. That's like someone inventing the bureaucracy. Stop it, ladies and gentlemen! Sickness must not be punished! Where are you going? I have often told you enough in the Economic Parliament: They want to talk about a steering charge; of a steering charge when people voluntarily go to the doctor without being sick, taking medication without needing any. They need medical help, but more from an adult psychiatric specialist. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we are against it, and I am tabling a motion for a resolution. I hope the Greens will vote this time. The concern is that Sabine Jungwirth, the president of the Green Economy, has been in a vehement state for 15 years: Abolition of self retention in the GSVG. – I just wanted to inform the club lady so that she could know how to vote correctly. The request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is the motion for a resolution on this subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President. Without looking into the Rules of Procedure: Do you need anything else? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's get rid of this self-preservation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:01]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22799	Thank you for the remarks. The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The agenda is - not the agenda is exhausted, but the debate is closed, because there is no mention of words. [[Abg. Wöginger: No, the debate!]] [[Abg. Kickl:... is getting slumbery!]] [[Further call to the FPÖ.]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] Some are already exhausted – yes, right. We shall vote on the draft law in 50 of its supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues and a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 1 in Article 1 and the resulting renumbering of the serial number. Whoever joins this amendment, I may request a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Members of the Loacker, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning § 727 and the insertion of new paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 into Article 1. If you stand for it, I may ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 1 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a supplementary or amendment concerning Articles 2 and 3. Whoever stands up for this, I may request a sign of consent. – This is the minority. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask the Members of the House who are in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law for a sign. – This is also the majority, adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Shetty, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Let us save our pension system and our children's prospects for the future'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Matznetter, colleagues, on the abolition of self retention for entrepreneurs. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:05:26]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 141/A(E) by Mrs Reinhold Lopatka, Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, Petra Steger, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues on the conviction of anti-Semitism and the BDS movement (40 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22900	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Loacker, an apologies, Lopatka. [[Abg. Loacker: A rare confusion!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schellhorn]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e22938	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker agrees that I am speaking. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, attacks and studies prove it: Anti-Semitism is a real threat to Jewish life throughout Europe, but also to our open, free society. Four out of ten Jewish fellow citizens have experienced harassment, animosities or even violent attacks in the last five years because of their faith. This is evidenced by a study by the European Union last year. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] With our five-party proposal, supported by the parliamentary and parliamentary representatives of all political groups, we are also voting for the silent majority in Austria: a vote for tolerance, a vote against intolerance and also a vote against anti-Semitism. Like the German Bundestag, we as the Austrian National Council are together setting a clear sign here. But Austria and Germany would be too little. It is an issue that should concern us throughout Europe. That is why, at the last meeting of the Council of Europe, I made a similar request to the one we are discussing here today. This request was also supported in a first round by all the political groups represented in the Council of Europe's parliamentary assembly. What happens to the proposal in the Council of Europe, to the Parliamentary Assembly, is still uncertain. In any case, I will fight very much for a resolution in the Council of Europe too. A question of its own in this context is a movement that was set up in 2005. This movement is called BDS: Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions, which means as much as Israel with Boycott to invest with stop investment and sanctions, or as it says in statements: To isolate Israel economically, culturally and politically. Founded in 2005, this movement is being founded by far more than a hundred organisa- I would like to thank you for your support. Among these organisations are also groups classified by the EU as terrorist organisations such as Hamas, who work in the Palestinian BDS National Committee. This movement can be called anti-Semitic – recently decided by the Austrian Press Council. While there are Jewish representatives in the BDS, on the other hand, leading representatives of the BDS question the right of Israel to exist in the current territory at all. All that comes from this movement is undoubtedly a contribution to me to create an anti-Semitic climate, and therefore we strongly oppose this movement's request. What I would like to mention is that the President of the National Council has set up a number of initiatives last year. I can only mention three: There is already the first large anti-Semitism study. It will be available every two years in the future, so that we can see whether there is progress or progress in Austria. That's one. Second: In the future, Parliament is to award an internationally advertised Simon Wiesenthal Prize to individuals who are particularly worthy of the fight against anti-Semitism. And the third point, which is also very important: Under the aegis of the Academy of Sciences, an independent, interdisciplinary research centre is to be created here in Austria, which deals scientifically with questions of anti-Semitism. That is, the Austrian Parliament, with our National Council President Wolfgang Sobotka at the top, is active – active than other parliaments. The decisive thing, however, is that in this fight against anti-Semitism not only is politics active, but it is also a task of every citizen and citizen to do everything in our society to resist these tendencies that are rising across Europe. Anti-Semitism must have no place in our society!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23008	The next item is the speech by Mr Harald Türk. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23030	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A ghost is about in Europe – the ghost of anti-Semitism. I think we have very clear positions on the fact that anti-Semitism is increasing again in Europe. Why are we discussing anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic currents and movements today? – Because anti-Semitism was simply a terrible factor in the taking power of the Nazis and in the ideological preparation of the Shoah, the millions of times extermination of Jewish citizens in the midst of Europe. It's about setting a sign. It is a widely supported five-party application. However, there is also an occasion for such concrete measures to be taken. In concrete terms, this was an information booth of the BDS, the Boycott Movement, Divestment and Sanctions, in front of the University of Vienna with the demand: no lectures by professors from Israel. It has been an action in front of that University of Vienna, which the Nazis declared Jews-free in 1938. Now there is a movement that, in turn, scientists from Israel – and of course, these are Jewish scientists – to refuse access to the university and to lectures. The BDS movement also calls for no artists from Israel to appear here in Austria. In 1938 there were professional bans for Jews from the Philharmonics and from other orchestras and theatres in Austria. We confess the right of Israel to exist. For the SPÖ, UN resolutions on Israel and Palestine are absolutely valid and binding. There are Jewish, non-Jewish people in Israel, there are Palestinians and their autonomous territories. It is crucial to work on a common solution and to make concrete progress. We are not to have any unilateral measures to oppose a common solution in the Middle East. In other words, it must be possible for criticism to be able to say no to certain measures – for example, if the Israeli government is taking steps in the settlement policy in the occupied areas. The SPÖ relies on the clear dialogue between the positive, peace-giving forces in the Middle East, Israel and Palestine. On the other hand, we oppose Boycott and sanctions with a clear no. We say yes to the protection of the Jewish population here in Austria and here in Europe. We clearly say yes to measures to combat anti-Semitism and, if possible, to really end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23072	Next item is Mrs Eva Blimlinger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23093	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at the gallery! Just one month ago, on 27 May, the first time I was in prison. January, there was a commemorative event worldwide on the occasion of the liberation of Auschwitz. Of course, you're wondering: After the Holocaust, after the Shoah, how can there be anti-Semitism? How can that even be after this disaster? – Again and again, the meeting is held: Especially for Auschwitz there is anti-Semitism. He has the most different causes, the most diverse contexts. It is politically diverse – to the left, to the right, wherever. For decades there has been an effort to do everything possible against anti-Semitism. There and there one is successful with this, but unfortunately it is something that can actually be eliminated by no education, by no training, by no media policy – similar to racism, similar to other discriminations, whether it be against LGBT people or anyone else. Anti-Semitism – as Henryk Broder, a well-known fighter for the matter, says – is a kind of world heritage. In a very good, old film – “The Narmen Ship” – there is a scene in which Heinz Rühmann, who plays Julius Löwenthal, sits on his bed in the 1930s and talks with a German-national anti-Semit, and says easily: Yes, yes, all the Jews and cyclists are to blame! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] The German then asks: Why the cyclists? – And that’s exactly the problem: We don't know about any guilt, they're not guilty, they didn't go into debt. But now, suddenly, we have the situation – my previous speakers have already mentioned this – that in connection with the BDS it is explained word-rich – and this proves the numerous emails, the numerous messages that have been received to me in recent weeks, since this resolution was known – that the BDS was in no way anti-Semitic and would be supported by many Jews. This is also a popular argument, namely to always bring Jews into the meeting to prove that you are not an anti-Semit; this makes the BDS the same way. She says: Well, we are only committed to human rights, we are committed to ensuring that the Palestinians come to their right. The BDS as well as representatives and other people write: Well, maybe Israeli politics is guilty of anti-Semitism. Who's to blame? The cyclists and the Jews? – Israel is not guilty of anti-Semitism. The legal government of Netanyahu cannot be supported in many things, it is fierce to criticise, but it is certainly not guilty of anti-Semitism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23142	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23166	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! You could have brought a lot of books on this subject, I brought one of Leon Zelman's books; I'll explain why. [[keeping an up - to - date edition of the book “A Life After Survival ”]] You can also take Simon Wiesenthal – you also have to read Simon Wiesenthal –, for example, the book entitled “Right, Not Revenge”, or “Ari is the name of Leo” by Ari Rath or “Inconceivable Miracles”, in which Alexandra Föderl-Schmid described many fates of people who survived the Holocaust. Why did I bring Leon Zelman? – The following can be read in this book: Growing up as a small boy in a platter in Poland, he then came to the ghetto in his early years, and he describes how the dehumanization took place there as it was about making it clear to the Jews: You're not human! - Dehumanization. Then he describes how he lost his brother in Auschwitz and then, after the liberation, lies in a hospital in Bad Ischl and for the first time again feels a hand that touches him. So if you read this, you'll see: You can't just read that, that's something special. I remember many conversations with Leon Zelman, and I remember a quote he said several times, because he said: You'll see, someday they'll go back to people; we won't be Jews, we're far too few. They will take others out, they will seek enemies again because they want to justify something because they want to build a certain political system. - We have to deal with this. What's going on today? – When I see on the Internet that a local politician takes the photo of an African who doesn’t have so beautiful teeth and then says: He just wants to get his teeth repaired at our expense!, then that's just hitz. We can't leave that uncommented either, we need to talk about it. We need to see where people are being evicted again today. That's the beginning. The next thing is that they are dehumanized, and then it is quite easy to destroy such people. That's what we've experienced. This is what I have always thought of as a young person, that is certainly never possible again, because it is so incomprehensible and because it is so incomprehensible and so monstrosity. The older I grew, the more I fear it will be possible again. Because Eva Blimlinger spoke about education – this is also described in all these books: Some of the worst guards in Auschwitz, some of the worst people who killed people there, were very well educated, but what they missed was any form of heart formation. That is why we must also be careful not only to try to understand the historical facts, but also to understand what heart formation means for young people, but not only for young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23214	Next speaker: Mr Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23236	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! A special greeting also to the gallery! Here we have guests of the Jewish high school and also guests from Israel – a warm scarf! – who wanted to be there when we were talking about this request. [[It was in favour of ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] I would very much like to hold a very differentiated, brief discussion on the question: When is a political discussion, when is a political argument anti-Semitic? – That’s something that’s actually accompanied me all my life. In the discussion with right neonazis, it has usually been very easy. It was mostly about the question of questioning: Was it actually 6 million Jews who were murdered? or: Was there any gas chambers?, up to the question of classical holocaust denial at all, which was of course very clearly identifiable. Unfortunately, it is not only neo-Nazis and right-wing extremities today, unfortunately there are also states in the Middle East who are making the Holocaust denial their own, first and foremost the regime in Iran. In the discussions with, let's say, left-wing extreme, pronounced left-wing groups also noticed in my student age that there was an incredible emotion, almost a hatred when it came to the subject of Israel, about the politics of Israel. But this was much more difficult to establish, because “only” – under quotation marks – was supposed to be directed against the policies of Israel or the respective government, always under the title: Well, you can still say that! Or: Criticism of Israel must be allowed! – an argument that we still know very well. What seemed very suspicious to me at the time is if there was such a phrase that went in the direction: The Palestinians must live in concentration camps! or: There is a holocaust to the Palestinians!, then there were also the hobby psychologists and polypsychologists who said more and more about it: Yes, it is clear that the Israelis today treat the Palestinians the way the Nazis treated the Jews! What then emerged are the so-called three Ds of identification: When is an argument, a political argument against Israel anti-Semitic? The three Ds are – first – the demonization of Israel, that is, the comparison of Israel or the Israeli with the Nazis, that Israel is, so to speak, the epitome of evil, which is Satan, and that Israel is a terrorist regime. The second D is the so-called Double Standards, the double standards: that is, Israel is treated differently from all other states, is criticized for a behavior that is tolerated by other states. For example: In the UN Human Rights Council There were 61 condemnations of Israel in the years 2006 to 2015. And now you're guessing how many convictions there were for everyone else, i.e. Syria, Myanmar, North Korea, Iran, Sudan, Libya and so on! – Israel: 61, all the others together: 54. Is it clear what we understand about Double Standards? The third D is the delegitimization to challenge, so to speak, the right to exist in the State of Israel at all. The argument is usually used: Israel is, as it were, a remnant of European colonialism. There is a question of the state’s right of self-defense, and there are all kinds of conspiracy theories as to the formation of Israel’s state, going to how this has ever been done. Why do I mention that and why do I say that? – Because, of course, when we talk about the BDS movement – it is now clear what it is about: Boycott, disinvestment and sanctions movement – always the question asks: Is it anti-Semitic or not? – Activists of the BDS movement argue of course: It's not anti-Semitic at all. That is why it has been very important for me now to specify exactly why the BDS movement is actually anti-Semitic. Now we come to the individual points: The boycott is a very clear parallel to the boycott movement among the Nazis. We all have the photos in our head, on which a SA-man in front of a Jewish business with the inscription: Don't buy from Jews! – The exclusion of the Jews from society has, as it were, been a continuing, very damaging policy toward Jews for centuries. Demonization: In the BDS movement, it is always said that Israel is an apartheid state. On the website of the BDS movement, this is expressly written and Israel is referred to as a pariah state. The delegitimisation: BDS representatives say that Israel has emerged from European colonialism is an expansive colonial state. That is to say, the right of Israel to exist is challenged, not only as regards the withdrawal from the territories conquered in 1967, but also as recognised by the UN in 1947. I would like to quote two or three activists of the BDS movement, including Omar Barghouti. I quote: “Definitely, we strongly reject a Jewish state in any part of Palestine. No Palestinian [...] will ever accept a Jewish state in Palestine.” – And he says that Israel is a “shake state”. Abu Khalil, another BDS activist, says: “The real goal of BDS is to bring down the state of Israel. [...] Justice and freedom for the Palestinians are incompatible with the existence of the State of Israel.” Not least – Mr Lopatka has already mentioned it – BDS is supported by terrorist organisations such as Hamas. It is totally reluctant to boycott Israeli scientists, artists, athletes and athletes. It is an irony because it is precisely those who are mostly the critical spirit in Israel. It is totally reckless not to maintain the dialogue with precisely these people, just as it is even reluctant to boycott someone, to exclude someone, with or without this connotation of the past. That's why the following thing happened – and I find it very remarkable –: Already in 2005, the Arabic Al-Kuds University in Jerusalem and the Hebrew University in Jerusalem made a joint statement against BDS and called for cooperation on the basis of mutual respect, exchange and dialogue. I find this exemplary. In 2015, President Obama defined the rejection of the BDS campaign as an explicit policy target, and even Bernie Sanders, who is well known to be very critical of Israel and the policies of Israel, said that the BDS campaign undoubtedly has anti-Semitic trains. In the meantime – 2016 – the British and Canadian Government have taken decisions on BDS. However, it is also important to me to say that in 2019 the German Bundestag expressly condemned the BDS movement as anti-Semitic and there was a broad majority of CDU/CSU, SPD, FDP and also a majority of the Greens. Only – I find that striking – the left voted against and the AfD abstained. In Austria – and there you also have to praise the Austrian University Schools very much – it was already decided in autumn 2017 that BDS support groups should no longer be financed. In the meantime, the city of Vienna and the city of Graz have also taken such decisions, and, as Mr Lopatka has already mentioned, the Austrian Press Council has noted that an anti-Semitism accusation to BDS is permitted. The present motion for a resolution is a very important sign. I do not know whether you are aware of the importance of this vote here in the country, but above all abroad. I can assure you: Representatives of Jewish organisations, but also of American political persons, and of course also in Israel, are very well aware of the fact that we have tabled this request and, I am very pleased to say, I will be voting in favour of it by all the parties. I hope that there is indeed a unanimous decision on this because it is a special sign that has not yet been possible in any Parliament in my knowledge. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] Thank you. It is a significant sign that Austria takes the fight against anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism seriously, and again: It is remarkable that all parties represented in the National Council support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23343	Next, Mrs Michaela Steinacker is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23364	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate Members of the House! Citizens' values! Anti-Semitism has basically existed since ancient times. The design, the type and the groups of carriers may have changed over the years, the decades, the centuries, but anti-Semitism is a current that continues to pass through our history. The basis are prejudices and prejudices against ethnic groups or religious groups without any material or scientific basis. Martin Engelberg has previously explained what anti-Semitism is and how to capture it, and I think that the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance gives a good and correct answer, namely an answer with a definition. Allow me to read this: “Anti-Semitism is a certain perception of Jews who can express hatred for Jews. Anti-Semitism is directed in word or in fact against Jewish or non-Jewish individuals and/or their property, as well as against Jewish community institutions or religious institutions. In addition, The State of Israel, which will be understood as a Jewish collective, is also the goal of such attacks." The Austrian Federal Government adopted this definition for Austria as one of the first EU countries in April 2017. It is then, of course, individual acts that ultimately constitute this hatred, this violence against precisely these groups. The Federal Government has dealt very intensively with this issue in the government programme. It is one of our stated objectives to take concrete action against it. We talk about protection against hatred and violence on the net; a study by TU Berlin proves that these anti-Semitic resentments are now not only present in marginal groups, in the far right scene, but unfortunately also in the middle of society. Unfortunately, the daily users on the Internet are multipliers of this anti-Semitic attitude, which is spread quickly and specifically. We must face that. Our President of the National Council is very much in support of this fight against anti-Semitism not only as President, but also as a historian. With events, prizes, public discussions – here in the House, but not only here, but also outside – he puts his focus and is a constant Mahner. The denial of Israel's right of existence and the appeal to the boycott of Israeli products, artists, scientists and so on are a very clear expression of anti-Semitism. I am proud that for several years I have been allowed to be the wife of the bilateral friendship group between Austria and Israel here in the High House. It is a very important group of friends, not only because we regularly exchange with the Knesset and the Members there to understand where problems lie, in order to finally understand the situation in this Middle East region. We discuss with ambassadors, we invite them, we meet representatives of the cultural community. We are trying to understand, to take a picture and to do what we are all going to do in common today, namely to proclaim the struggle to anti-Semitism and to stand up with courage wherever it is necessary to show the flag. We Austrians do this in the sense of what I have just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23423	Mr Josef Moser has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23444	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! My dear listeners! Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to draw the lessons from history – and we have the responsibility for that now and today – we are strongly opposed to any form of anti-Semitism, racism, xenophobia, intolerance and discrimination. We also have the lead of Yad Vashem, namely: Never forget to live with our actions. If we want the darkest chapter of our history to have no chance of repeating itself in the future, we must do something today and now, together. This application, which is pending treatment today, is an important mosaic in the fight against anti-Semitism. Thank you. I am therefore particularly interested in all the parties represented here in the National Council that they support this request. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would particularly like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for this opportunity. Sobotka, who in his capacity as President of the National Council: Never forget!, lives and has already set a large number of initiatives in this direction, such as with the commissioning of a study on anti-Semitism in Austria, whose result is a reason for this resolution today. According to this study, 10 percent of Austrians are manifest and 30 percent latent anti-Semitic. There is therefore an active need for action. We must face all forms of anti-Semitism together, not only nationally, but also internationally! This is evidenced in turn by an online EU survey of December 2018. It says that the knowledge of the Holocaust is still low. Most of the Europeans, 58 percent, do not know that it is punishable to deny the Holocaust. Only 3 percent of Europeans reported being very well informed about Jewish history and customs. 68 percent said they had no knowledge of it at all. According to the study, 61 percent of the population is experiencing increasing anti-Semitism, while in Sweden it is 73 percent. In principle, every second EU citizen considers anti-Semitism to be a problem in his country. In some countries, awareness of anti-Jewhood is much higher, even in Germany. There two thirds of the population see anti-Semitism as a problem, in France even 72 percent and in Sweden 81 percent. 40 percent of participants in the survey believed that the Jewish population was exposed to the risk of racist violence, and half believed that governments should increasingly devote themselves to the fight against anti-Semitism. That is exactly what we are doing today with this request: We condemn anti-Semitism and take active action to combat it. But we do not only nationally, but also internationally. I have also made the fight against anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia with the means of criminal law a topic of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the EU: As early as 2008, the EU Member States adopted the Framework Decision 2008/913 unanimously. It aims to ensure that certain criminal behaviour, including the denial of Holocaust, is criminally punishable in all Member States and that such minimum penalties are introduced. It cannot be and I think it is really very unfortunate that there are still gaps in the full implementation of this Framework Decision more than ten years after its adoption. I am therefore pleased, and I see it as a merit of the Austrian Presidency, that the initiative of the Austrian judicial body within the framework of the Council for Justice and Home Affairs in Brussels has been unanimously incorporated in the declaration on the fight against anti-Semitism. With this joint agreement on this request, we assume our responsibility to combat any form of anti-Semitism and to resist any tendencies in this direction firmly and consistently in our daily action. With this we draw the lessons from a dark past and contribute to the hope that these horrors will not be able to repeat again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23513	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 40 of the Supplements on 'Condemning Anti-Semitism and the BDS Movement'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (Applause from ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens as well as from Abg. Amesbauer. ) (12/E) [[17:43:48]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the opposition of the Federal Council of 19 December 1990 of 11 December 2019 against the decision of the National Council of 11 December 2019 December 2019 concerning a federal law amending the Federal Liability Limits Act and repealing the EUROFIMA Act (20/41 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23560	This is the 11th time we've reached the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First word message: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23587	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with the opposition of the Federal Council against the decision on the Federal Liability Law, which was here on 11 November. ==References== The SPÖ Group adopted the decision on 11 November. ==References====External links== Why? – Because for extra-budget units the reporting obligation is not required. As the President of the Court of Auditors, transparency is very important to me. We, the SPÖ Group, call for the publication of the upper limit reports, which is not the case at present. We would like a publication, for example, on the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance – this is also a recommendation from the budget service. The Federal Council held its meeting on 19.12. Objection against the National Council Decision was raised and justified. First: The Court of Auditors has already repeatedly criticised the fact that interest and costs are not included in the future ceilings. What does that mean? – This means that the impact, if the federal government assumes liability, on the federal budget is insufficiently presented. This is not really transparency. The SPÖ Group in the Federal Council has opted for a transparent presentation – I mentioned the publication earlier. How was the reaction to this well-founded criticism in the Federal Council? – The reaction was not present. There was no response. The criticism was ignored, not observed. What happened in the Committee on Budgets? – The Greens have tabled a joint request with the ÖVP, the National Council may adopt the decision of 11 May. Repeat December. That's remarkable. The following is also noteworthy: The SPÖ asked three times in the Committee on Budgets: What is your reaction to the criticism of the Federal Council? She has not received three answers to her three-time demand. I have to say quite honestly – I now look towards colleagues from the Greens –: That's really amazing. When the Green Party was still in opposition, it is for transparency, for control and has been highly stylised as a control party. Now, in the government, everything seems to be different. We have been given another example in the Committee on Budgets, and I would like to remind you of one last example: The application text to the Investigation Committee – Ibiza, Casinos – was radically shortened by two thirds by the Greens together with the ÖVP. Yes, how can we have a comprehensive control by Parliament? How is there a comprehensive political responsibility to be clarified? What is this way of dealing with Parliament? Ladies and gentlemen! We, the SPÖ Group, will not agree to this law, which is to amend the Federal Limitation Law, because we are committed to a transparent presentation of the liability. All of us should have learned a lesson from the hypo scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23638	The next speaker was Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23660	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We are here discussing the opposition of the Bundesrat against the decision of the National Council concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Liability Law and repeals the EUROFIMA Act. As far as the latter is concerned, I believe all the political groups here in the House agree that, if a law is no longer needed, if a law is unnecessary, it should also be missed out of the legislative jungle accordingly. However, the German Federal Liability Board (Bundeshaftungsbeschreibungsgesetz) has been held as follows: On the one hand, this new law is based on the Court of Auditors report of 2015 and the second on the federal agreement reached during the last financial compensatory negotiations. On the first point, the Court of Auditors' report: At the time, the aim of the examination was to establish the rules for the countries and municipalities on upper limits of liability and to assess their compliance with the requirements and objectives of the 2012 Austrian Stability Pact. Austria has a rather high level of liability compared to other countries. With 16.3 percent of the gross domestic product, we are second in comparison with the EU countries behind Finland. This system of acceptance of liability is, by all means, nothing bad. For example, in Austria we have outsourced the ÖBB as a capital company, and I am convinced that it can make rapid decisions and is therefore also more manageable towards external influences. The State assumes the responsibility for this, in the sense of the population of Austria. The second point is: So far, the limits of liability have been fixed differently. This innovation creates a uniform calculation methodology for all levels, i.e. federal government, countries and municipalities, and that is exactly what is to be implemented by this decision. It is incomprehensible to me that the Federal Council, as the so-called Chamber of State, voted against in December, although this agreement was agreed with all nine federal states and was then decided in the financial compensatory negotiations with the votes of FPÖ and SPÖ. Is party policy at the expense of citizens? Or, in other words, Perhaps the location's point of view? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In summary, I can only say: This amendment brings about a uniformization of the system, i.e. clear and comparable regulations and, what is still very important to me, does not cause any additional costs because the performance agreement reached with Statistics Austria remains the same. Thus, this is a law in the sense of sustainability and in the sense of the next generations. I ask all the political groups here in the House to agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23711	Next speaker: Mr Hubert Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23732	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Values Advisors! This item on the agenda – we have already dealt with this draft law in plenary session – concerns whether interest and costs should be included in the ceiling of the federal liabilities or not. In this context, I asked the budget service to prepare a short study. On this occasion I should also like to thank you very much for the excellent work of the budget service at Dr. Berger. In concrete terms, I addressed the following question to the Budget Service: “How does the budget service assess the Court’s claim for the calculation of interest and costs on the ceiling of the federal liabilities [...]?” The liability for interest and costs is currently not counted on the maximum liability of the Federal Liability Limits Act. In the case of black and green, this transparency and veiling of liability should also be maintained, even though the Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out that this does not present the consequences of taking over liability. Liabilities for interest and costs are, in fact, economic, just as the underlying liability for capital is, incidental liabilities. Thus, the possible loads from potential liabilities could actually be higher than the liability limit in the future. The budget service has joined the Court of Auditors' criticism that liability for interest and costs would mean a potential economic burden on the federal government and should therefore be taken into account in determining the limit on liability. Finally, a comment on the need for transparent reporting: A coordinated presentation methodology of the liabilities, including a transfer, needs to ensure that both the requirements of the BHG and the German Federal Liability Limits Act and the EU standards are transparently taken into account. However, just as Black-Green has adopted tax transparency in the government programme, Black-Green was not ready for discussion on this issue – transparent reporting on liability – as Mrs Greiner did at the outset. I am very sorry that it was always the greens who called for more and more transparency – but only until the entry into government. For all these reasons, we will not agree to this insistence decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23787	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23808	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! As discussed in Novemberplenum, this decision on the Federal Limitation Law is about creating uniform rules for the liability of the public authorities. The relevant scandals of the past, I believe, also show that this is urgently necessary. I therefore ask – also addressed to SPÖ and FPÖ – not to postpone this decision any longer, but to implement this important commitment to a responsible handling of public money, i.e. to take this decision. However, that does not mean that, after this decision, there cannot and should not be an improvement, I just believe that the objections raised at that time do not justify a further delay in the decision. I would like to address this in detail now because the accusation has come that we had not done so in the Committee on Budgets. On the one hand, on the question of the accounting of interest and costs: I thank the budget service for the analysis he has made. The objective of this novel is indeed to adapt the Federal Superior Liability Act to the HOG agreement – a 15a agreement – and the EU Sixpack Directive. If we were to create a different regime for the Federal Liability Law, that would be contrary to the unification. There are also good reasons why both the EU Sixpack Directive and the HOG agreement do not provide for an accounting of costs and interest: because this is difficult to implement in practice. Just remember that interest rates are subject to fluctuations in market dynamics and as a liabilityee, one cannot influence how high interest rates are, nor when taking over the liabilities know how the interest rates will develop. The second point concerns transparency rules: I'd rather be able to talk about it. I am also willing to think about how to make this better in the future. I only believe that this regulation, with regard to deviations of more than 10 per cent and under-annual reporting, is difficult because it depends on these forecasting acts, and this, of course, makes it difficult for extra-budget units. In addition, of course, the annual reports of the non-budgetary units to Statistics Austria and an overview of the report of the Ministry of Finance to the National Council and the Federal Accounts prepared by the Court of Auditors are still planned. I think it is sufficient, at least to take this decision today. My request would therefore be that the SPÖ support – including the FPÖ, but in particular the SPÖ – what it has also co-negotiated, at least in the context of the 15a agreements, because this is now adapted to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23854	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23879	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Yes, for us, the Federal Board of Liability Law was of course better than the status quo, so we agreed at the time. That is clear, and we still see it this way, and the opposition of the Federal Council does not change it either. Mr Fuchs has quoted the question of the budget service; I would also like to do so. It is a matter of political weighting, as the budgetary service has clearly stated, whether one wants comparability or not, whether one wants uniform rules or not. I quote from the answer to the question given by the Budgetary Service: “The limit of liability would have not been used by far, even taking into account interest rates and a breach is currently not expected.” – This is one of the points. Nevertheless, I believe this issue is still a permanent burner. What we still see is that the real problems in liability are still the same and are still not addressed. However, the fact is that the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities are working there with liabilities, as it would be inconceivable for banks, insurance and reinsurance – Mr Moser will speak for me immediately, and I think that he is doing so – without a risk assessment, without an elaborated liability cascade, in an order of scale, we must also admit that in Europe, which is the same; we are once again the top, the second behind Finland – but this is an unmistakable top. What I want to say is: If a banker or a reinsurer were to approach the matter as the Land Princes and Mayors would, the FMA would put him under the guise, controlled him. Any bank, any insurance, which assumes liabilities without risk assessment, without liability scandal, without uniform reporting, would be completely withdrawn from the market. That's fact, that's it, and that's right. In the financial world, this would be unthinkable. We have the status at federal, state and local authorities that this is going and going. I would like to give you three figures: The city of Vienna has spent around 5 billion euros on liability, the municipalities in Salzburg 305 million euros, and in Lower Austria it is particularly funny, as it is 679 million euros – without risk assessment, without liability scandals, without uniform reporting. You've got to break up on the tongue! What happens when these liabilities get beat? Then what do we have? How do we get the money? With local taxes? – With a dog tax you will in all cases not be able to vote this sum. Then the covenant pays. We've had that before, and it'll be as dangerous as the hypo. I think we agree that we don't want all of this. This was very expensive in the case of the hypo and will continue to be very expensive if we do not have uniform rules. In principle: Let us talk about a single report of liability, which is very important, and then about risk weighting!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23915	Next speaker: Mr Josef Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e23937	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! I am pleased that the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been repeatedly discussed in the course of the debate and that it is at the same time noted how important it is that the Court of Auditors' recommendations are actually implemented. Mr Schellhorn has just mentioned in his speech that there has always been the problem that, in the area of accounting, in particular, the full, true financial situation of the local authorities does not represent the full, true financial situation of the local authorities. It is not possible to find a It was an undertaking for which we needed years to convert the camera-listics for federal, national and local authorities into a doppic, as is required by every small businessman. It is gratifying that, since 1.1.2020, not only the Federal Government and the Länder, but also the municipalities have an accounting system in which not only revenue and expenditure are reported, but also the expenditure, income and assets. In this context, of course, it is not only a matter of insulating an accounting system, it is also an essential element to be able to represent the overall state level or the general obligations of the State. That was also the reason why, during my Presidency of the Court of Auditors, I called for the liability to be presented transparent, comprehensible and just the same – and you have also mentioned this, Mr Schellhorn – by the federal government, the states and the municipalities, and, of course, including the legal authorities. I also – and this has been pointed out by Mr Lindinger – in 2015 to the inconsistency and transparency of the presentation of the liability. In this context, I also drew attention to the fact that the maximum level of liability of the national and municipal level is very different when it comes to providing the level of exploitation, and – that is crucial – that the different methodology of determining the limits of liability leads to inconsistency. It is therefore not possible to take a precise view of the actual liabilities of countries and communities. We now come to this proposal for an initiative: From 2020 onwards, it will create a uniform methodology for calculating the liability limits of the federal, state and local authorities, based on the EU Sixpack Directive, and at the same time – which is also crucial for comparability – the assessment of the liabilities will be introduced to the nominal value. This also makes it – and this is also crucial – the necessary adaptation to the calculation methodology, in line with the maximum liability agreement established by the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities in 2017. This is certainly an essential step towards greater transparency and accountability at the same time. I also have to say the following: It is true that the Court of Auditors' recommendation, namely that interest and costs are also included in the liability limit, is currently not implemented with this request. In my opinion, this is unfortunate, and I am going to come to Mr Fuchs, who has commissioned the budget service to look at the liabilities and has mentioned some of the information and statements of the budget service, namely that the budget service is associated with the Court of Auditors' argument and that it should include interest and costs. In this context, however, the Budget Service also points out that the practical implementation of the inclusion of interest and costs in the liability ceiling would be complex in several respects: First of all, it is necessary to renegotiate or adapt the maximum liability agreement between the federal, state and local authorities concluded there. This would be very time-consuming and would, as we have seen in the negotiations so far, postpone the whole measure and, in particular, make it difficult to achieve or postpone the harmonization provided for by this Upper limit law. Secondly, It would be expected to have a considerable additional administrative burden, as the cost of liability for lack of data available is still very difficult to estimate. Thirdly, Furthermore, further legal bases would have to be adapted, while at the same time making it more difficult to report on other borders with regard to the EU Sixpack Directive. For these reasons, I support the intention that the opposition of the Federal Council should not be complied with and that the proposal for initiative, which is adopted today, and, as mentioned above, contribute to a substantial improvement in transparency on the actual liability situation of the federal, state and local authorities. However, I think it is necessary to take further steps towards harmonisation, which, at least, require the involvement of all financial compensatory partners, because, I would also like to point out, only stricter regulations at the federal level would oppose the harmonisation requirements that you, honourable Member Schellhorn, have addressed. However, I am confident that in the future the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations in the field of accounting will be possible more quickly, as the current opposition of the Federal Council shows that the Chamber of State now also has an interest in the harmonisation of the accounting system and thus also of the liability. In this context, I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for Finance that he has already stated in the Committee that he will also take this issue into account in the framework of the forthcoming financial compensatory negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, since the light is already red, to extend my speaking time a little. The reason for this is that I will relinquish my mandate for personal reasons in March. I would therefore like to thank all of you on this occasion for your collegiality, the enriching discussions and the activities. However, I would also like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and the staff of the parliamentary clubs for their excellent support. I have been associated with Parliament for almost 30 years in various roles and have just come to know and appreciate parliamentarism in detail – as Parliament staff, President of the Court of Auditors, Secretary-General of the Intosai, National Council member and Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice. Each of these functions has taken advantage of me with full commitment and great joy – always borne by the will to carry on something and to offer sustainable solutions based on figures and facts. Many of you, from all the parties here in the house, were important partners for me. I hope you felt that way. I thank all of you for the constructive cooperation over the last decades and also for accepting my tenacity in this case, partly with serenity. Finally, I would also like to thank Mr Bundeskanzler, who brought me to his government team and who accepted my wish not to take me into account in the formation of the current government without resentment. I wish you all the best of all. I am sure that, despite different approaches to mutual cooperation, you will face the challenges ahead and implement for people in our country the structural reforms under way, develop the necessary control rights of Parliament and its auxiliary bodies, increase transparency and, in particular, ensure the rule of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24024	Mr Moser, I would like to thank you personally for your commitment to the various functions you have performed; I think I can say that on our behalf. Thank you very much and all the possible good for all that you're planning now! Good luck, Mr. Moser. [[General condolences.]] Mr Pöttinger, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24054	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Dear Joseph, you are and have been a great enrichment for this house and for the whole of Austria – thank you again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, everything was explained by Dr. Moser, but here still my words on the Federal Liability Law, which we have already decided at the meeting of 11.12.2019 [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda]] The decision includes the adaptation to Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act and thus an agreement with the countries to harmonise the limits of liability, as agreed in the financial compensation at the time. The objective of the 15a agreement is a uniform arrangement for federal, state and local authorities and non-budgetary units. The novelle is necessary for the publication in the federal accounts, because without this novelle the concrete data protection basis for the collection, transfer and publication of these data is missing. Unfortunately, this law was not approved by SPÖ and FPÖ in 2019, and both political groups also objected in the Federal Council. The agreement entered into in the 2017 financial compensation agreement was specifically linked to the EU Sixpack Directive, which provides for the assessment of nominal values. This means that this assessment takes place without taking into account interest and costs. In the implementation of the EU Directive, the 15a agreement also provides for nominal values. The consideration of interest and costs now required by the Federal Council would therefore be different from the 15a agreement. A non-decision would mean that we would withdraw from our original objective, namely to harmonise the assessment of the liabilities of the federal, state and local authorities. In any event, the Federal Accounting Board contains the presentation including interest and costs, so it is absolutely not about transparency, as is claimed on the part of SPÖ and FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, you are opposed to the withdrawal of the guarantee of liability for extra-budget legal entities, i.e. those legal entities that belong to the state and are in the responsibility of the federal government. The guarantee of liability required by you would only be necessary to make adjustments to the ceiling. This is not necessary, however, since the 15a agreement already provides the limit. Mr Krainer, you said in committee that there would be no argument for insistence. In this case, a insistence decision is necessary, because without novelle of the Federal Liability Limits Act, a 15a-compliant publication of the liability stocks in the Federal Accounting Statement 2019 is not possible. We should therefore consider the actual objective, namely the uniform calculation of the ceiling for the liabilities of the federal, regional and local authorities, and agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24112	Next speaker: Mr Franz Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24136	Madam President. Highly esteemed Mr. Minister! As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, with the complicated word "Bundeshaftungsabschreibungsgesetz", I only have a comment because I do not want to repeat everything again. I think we are already taking a successful step in the right direction. There are 17 different rules on liability limits in the EUROFIMA Act and a uniform regulation, which has been agreed with a 15a agreement, and which, above all, seems to me to be very important – for the federal government, countries, municipalities and for extra-budget legal entities – these are the Austrian Federal Railways, the Asfinag and such outsourced companies. I think that in the case of liability – which has also been said by Sepp Schellhorn – it is about enormous sums: 62.7 billion euros or 16.3 percent of GDP, at least as much as tourism in this country contributes to GDP. So there must be control so that wild growths, as they happened in Carinthia, are avoided. A federal government, with a budget of almost EUR 3 billion, has taken over EUR 25 billion in liabilities and has almost shaken the Republic into its foundations. [[Abg. Kassinger: How much of it has become staggering? - Zero! Zero! Zero!]] Thank God there were finance ministers like Mr Schelling and, of course, Mr. Löger and Mr. State Secretary Fuchs, so that he was also mentioned, who contributed to the fact that the results were not as bad as we expected. It is, I believe, still 6 billion euros. In order to prevent such a thing from happening, I believe that this regulation is very important. Liability is nothing in principle bad, we need it for the economy and for the further development of our state structure. Of course, proportionality must be given, and there is an overall view and a corresponding framework. The fact that you blocked this in the Federal Council has, I believe, rather party-political reasons. It was precisely the time of coalition negotiations in which you were of course quite offended. I think that's where the problem lies. It would be best, of course, if you were to operate as the federal state of Tyrol. There were just two double budgets presented: 3.9 billion euros of budget, hardly any debt, or 270 million euros of debt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] In contrast to your Styria, the Tiwag, the hypo and the housing promotion are still in possession; this has an equivalent value of almost 8 billion euros. [[towards Abg. Light snow]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Light peace.]] If you were to do this, we would have no problem in this state. Take an example of Land Captain Platter! To you, dear Sepp Schellhorn: The comparison with the dog and the sausage has already gone wrong, namely with Minister of Finance Edlinger. He had used this comparison at the time and then provoked black and blue. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Leichtfried, Mr Loacker and Mr Schellhorn.]] If you come today with the dazzle and the sausage, I can only tell you: One could also think that an insulted liver sausage – because one has become nothing in one's own state and at the Chamber of Commerce – does not even eat a pink dample. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24195	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – This is not the case We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee on Budgets in 41 of the Supplements. In the sense of § 82 para. I should first like to state the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. The Budget Committee makes the request to decide on the following: ==References====External links==* Official website In December 2019, a federal law amending the Federal Liability Limits Act and repealing the EUROFIMA Act shall be repealed in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 B-VG repeated. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this committee proposal to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. This means that the National Council has, in accordance with Art. 42 para. 4 B-VG repeats its original decision. [[18:21:16]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 282/A by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA, colleagues with regard to a federal law amending the federal law, which amends a provisional provision for the 2020 financial year (Legal Budget Provision 2020) and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022 (42 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24258	We're coming to 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24285	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, you were right about God, because what Minister of Finance Edlinger said was not a joke. The fact that Finance Minister Edlinger was right has shown us the many savings packages over the years. We have tried to restore these budgets again, and we have managed to have a renovated budget with a budget path by 2017, with which we have moved the debt ratio that we owe to the first black and blue government again towards 60 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hörl: And how was the Bawag?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What happened in the one and a half years since then? . We have experienced over a year and a half that many of the opportunities that we have created through our budgetary policy have not been used. And what do you have to decide now? – You now, of course, decide on a budget provisional. To explain it to the spectators as well: The last Federal Government would have been obliged to present a budget to this House. It didn't happen. For clarification only: Of course, we did not agree to the 2019 budget, because there are many measures to be found in it that are simply going in the wrong direction from our point of view, and that is why we will not agree to this continuation of the 2019 budget. What's going on now? – The funds between the ministries will be shifted accordingly. In other words, what has resulted from the power-political game in government-building is now also reflected in its financial downturn. This week, representatives of the International Monetary Fund were with us to make the annual report, which was quite exciting. What did the International Monetary Fund say? – He actually thinks the situation in Austria is very good. The debt is well under control, as he sees no need for further action. But there are huge challenges ahead of us. He has praised this government, he has praised Black Green for the committed goals in the climate. He did exactly what we say. What we have experienced in the last two years was: The show must go on!, but the measures have not come. That's exactly what you're being measured at. It's not about show policy with announcements, it's about what you're doing. You have lost one and a half years, and by continuing the budget you lose more time. We are now waiting for what is actually inside the next budget proposal, and we are going to measure it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24334	Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24369	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens. Mr Vogl, I am not of your opinion that the last one and a half years have been a lost time, and I do not think I am going to judge this alone. But when we ask people outside and when I'm on my way to Carinthia, they say to me: More has been implemented in these one and a half years than in the ten years before! I am also of this opinion. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] How to get a budget under control – not only through tax increases, but also when the small earners and the earners are discharged and without new debts – was shown by this government. Mr Finanzminister is doing so when he introduces his budget, which is why, already in the government statement, it was quite clear, to relieve people and not to re-indebted the country so that the next generation can live well in this country. What is this really about item 12? – My colleague said it earlier: As with all the formation of a new government, there are differences of competence between the Ministries. In order for every minister to be able to work properly and in accordance with the law, it is necessary to continue the budget procedure we have and to adopt the Federal Financial Framework Act in this form again. This can be done quite normally. In just under two months, we'll be back here and deal with the budget in depth when the budget for 2020 is on the table. Therefore, with a consent, no one would actually forgive anything, no matter which opposition party it is. This was done the same way in the past when we were in government with the SPÖ. This was done two years ago when we were with you, with the FPÖ, in the government, just as we are now doing in the new government with the Freedom Party. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Anger.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] There is no free letter to let the budget run out of the row, but it is covered up, and nothing else is going on. When the government presented its programme here at the beginning, it was said by each party that it wanted to give it a chance. - Please, you don't forgive yourself. That's right! You don't forgive yourself, the ministers should be able to work as it is necessary in the ministry with all the competences. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24429	Mr Erwin Angerist, the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24482	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr Obernosterer did not say it quite right: The current government is not made up of ÖVP and FPÖ, but of ÖVP and Greens, so you will have meant this, Mr Colleague. [[Abg. Amesbauer: There was the wish of the father of thought!]] We are now basically talking about the continuation of the 2019 budget. We will reject this, although it is actually our budget. Actually, you should ask yourself: Why do the liberals reject this? [[Call at the ÖVP: But I'm excited about the argumentation!]] This continuation is not really exciting either, the one that belongs to it – and Gabriel has rightly referred to it – Federal Ministry Act, the total shift of power to the ÖVP and the fact that the civil servants are still assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture, however, one has to reject it, and, of course, one has to reject the corresponding budget. So, as I said, it's not very exciting. This budget is not going to last very long either. In a few weeks, the Minister of Finance will give the budget speech. I find that very exciting. What is more worrying about me is that the principles of our joint government work have already been thrown overboard. We've always said: No new debts! The Greens, and especially the new Vice-Chancellor, do not like this and call the debt brake an investment brake. It will therefore become interesting what the budget will look like with regard to it. Our access was also: no new burdens, tax reliefs, which at last relieve citizens in this country, do not re-tax! Although tax charges have not been included in the government programme, it is said to be different. It's called CO2 pricing, it's called adjusting the shuttle fee. A task force is being set up to deal with the tax system to make it more ecological. There is simply to be feared – and we know it too – that massive burdens are on citizens, especially those who live in rural areas and need the car will be heavily burdened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As an opposition party – now – we can look forward to this budget. We are already looking forward to the debates, they will become very exciting and interesting. Unfortunately, the Austrian population must be afraid of what is happening to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24533	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24554	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This request is based only on what the Federal Ministries have done. This is why I am no longer going to comment on the criticism of the Federal Ministry Act, which has already been discussed in the previous plenary session. However, where I have to give Mr Vogl the right – now he is no longer here – is that the budget provisorium naturally builds on the old budget and reflects the priorities of Turquoise-Blue. However, it is only possible to see how important it is that we Greens now have the opportunity to enter the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] For example, under Turquoise-Blue, there was the plan to introduce the German Federal Finance Framework Act as from 2018 falling payment limits for the environment and climate, at the same time by 15 percent by 2022. That is why it was high time we entered the government. We will now negotiate an ambitious climate and environmental budget. However, the disbursements are, of course, only one side of the budget, and also the taxes and taxes are important, which Mr Angerer has already mentioned. I can use this immediately to contradict Mr Vogl, who says that these are only announcements, there is no implementation, he is already looking at the CO2 price. – The tax reform task force has been set up and will start work in these weeks, and I am looking forward to helping both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side of the budget to ensure that the cost-reality of CO2 emissions is achieved and that we will also see ambitious climate and environmental policy in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24600	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24621	Madam President. Federal Minister! Just a short while to meet the IMF: The IMF has said what Mr Vogl has previously quoted: that far too little has happened, especially when it comes to environmental measures. What the IMF has also recommended – only as a comment – is to immediately eliminate the cold progression. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This item on the agenda is also about the budget procedure. We've heard it already: In three weeks the Federal Minister will present the draft for a new budget and in April there will also be a budget for the Republic for 2020, to which the Federal Government is then bound. When you consider that it is only a few weeks actually and that the budget is actually being rewritten – automatically rewritten – then of course the question arises: Why do you do that? – It has already been mentioned: What has now been changed is simply that the ÖVP and the Greens have re-divided the tasks. This means that the Federal Ministry Act must be amended, and then there are some budget posts that go along with it. Now, of course, you could say: It's okay, anyway, because the new government obviously has to divide the tasks as it wants! – That’s quite right, but just as long as no nonsense comes out. [[Abg. Lightness: That's right!]] And that's where we discovered a few points. The first point has already been raised. So far, no one has really been able to explain to us – at least not reasonablely – why civil service has migrated from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Well, you mentioned!]] – I’ve mentioned it rationally, exactly, that’s right. [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's the point!]] The second point is that the Constitutional Service has moved from the Ministry of Justice to the Federal Chancellor's Office, and of course one can argue that this was the case before, and that's why one can do it. But it would have been better if the Constitutional Service had remained in the Ministry of Justice, and the background to this shift is, of course, only the fact that the Minister of Justice is now a Green and the Chancellor is still a Turkish. It is really absurd to look at the postal and telecommunications agents, who have also moved from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Agriculture, and this is of course very exciting. The answer we received from the Committee to our question was very serious: Telecommunications does not work in the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] You really don't believe that at the first moment when you hear that. But then the Minister of Agriculture also has the Chuzpe that she is standing on a television interview the same day and repeats this statement with a whole, very serious face again. Chapeau – she's not here today – but you have to bring it together once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] It is true, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that the ÖVP simply does not want to give up its influence on important state-based businesses, on posts, on budgets and, of course, on the auction of mobile frequencies, and that is why these areas have been resolved from the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is now in the Greens. The fourth and last point is really disappointing: these turquoise-blue Secretary-Generals, who have just been created under Turquoise-Blue and who have abolished the transitional government for really good reason, are now being reintroduced. We all know that these super superiors, who are created completely without a job invitation – yes, some are now writing out, but there is no need for a call – are simply not necessary. We don't need them at all. We have the principle of ministerial responsibility. We have the support of the cabinet for ministers, and of course we also have the specialised officials in the ministries. That is perfectly enough – that is why these are not improvements for Austria. We have not already signed and for good reasons rejected the budget 2019, and we will not agree to these absurdities contained in this new proposal. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24702	The next item is Mrs Angela Baumgartner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24726	Madam President. Federal Minister! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the new elections in September 2019, neither a federal financial law nor a federal financial framework law could be passed by 2020 until 2023; therefore, a budget commission had to be decided which would be valid until the new budget was effective. This is not an unusual process. Now, however, we have to do with the speciality that the provisional continuation of the multiannual financial framework does not take into account the shifts in competence in the new ministries. This amendment was needed in order to make available the necessary budget resources to the regions in order to ensure that there is no limitation in the budget. waltung is coming. We are therefore producing security of action until the budget decision. In April we will then decide on the new Federal Finance Act and the Federal Financial Framework Act, and I am sure, Mr Vogl and Mr Angerer, that our Federal Government will decide a good budget with our Finance Minister Gernot Blümel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Our aim is to reduce taxes in order to relieve people in our country visibly and nevertheless not to make new debts. Our mission is to deal with the tax money as sparingly and efficiently as possible. We also need to ensure at European level that our contribution to the EU budget does not rise to an immeasurable level. We are already net payers, and with increasing economic performance, our contribution is automatically increased, even without increasing. The position of the EU Parliament is as follows: 1.5 billion euros more contribution to the EU budget per year. I am glad that our Federal Chancellor Sebastian is strong against an increase at European level, because with this contribution we can carry out urgent reforms in Austria to deliver people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24781	Next speaker: Mr Max Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24802	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, listeners! The previous speaker is full of optimism, I'm not. [[Mr Baumgartner, Mr Head and Mr Sieber.]] There are some indications that we should be concerned, but one trusts through at the start of a partnership. The budget – it sometimes sounds so abstract, but is really something quite simple. The budget is nothing but the decision of our society to spend money for. Social democracy has clear ideas. We want to relieve the 80 percent in this country, the daily service providers. We do not want to make it harder for those who already have it hard enough in this system. However, this budget provisor also allows to clean up with a march created by the previous government, with this so-called savings in the system. What has become of this saving in the system? – You – and the colleague at NEOS has said this quite correctly – have created a caste of new political secretaries in the form of the Director-General, who really does not need anyone like that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] I hope the Greens will ensure that the Thinktank Think Austria, which the Federal Chancellor himself has granted, is abolished, because I really do not understand why the taxpayers should come up for any JVPler who prepares papers for the ÖVP government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] If this is a saving in the system, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I have apparently not understood it correctly and hope it will not go in the direction as you have shown in the cash reform that the promised billion will then become a billion hole. That is how we do not understand about social democracy saving in the system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We understand among them that with this money you can give all those who have been difficult enough anyway; that those who have worked for 45 years can rightly retire freely. That must be worth it to us, ladies and gentlemen, for the hardworking in this country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24874	The next item is Mr Andreas Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24906	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are debating the legal budget for 2020. My previous speakers have already said that it is in principle a formal act, because the new budget will be adopted in a few weeks. The basis for this is, of course, the budget from 2019, and that has not yet been mentioned. We now know the preliminary figures of the 2019 financial statements. We have an administrative surplus of 1.5 billion euros. That's a very positive thing. I think you have to say that very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This has not yet been done in the Second Republic and this creates the basis for further tax reductions and, above all, for the statement that no new debt should come in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] Erwin, as a budget speaker of the liberals, look at you! We have always had a very good understanding on economic and budgetary issues – perhaps less in other issues. What I don't understand in this connection: Why is the SPÖ so difficult to achieve a surplus? – I know one cannot necessarily compare a farm with a state, with a local authority, but that is gratifying because it creates appropriate room for the future. I would also like to replicate Mrs Doublebauer. I tried it in committee, I'll try it again now: Why does it make sense for them to come to the Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism? – I would like to explain briefly: Telecommunications was always a state task, Deutsche Telekom was a monopoly company, and – I think you will agree – monopoly companies are always a bit difficult. There came the European Union and a market liberalisation. That is, the market has been privatized. In the telecommunications sector, when I see the whole of Austria now, the telecom market in the urban area, where there is a high population density, works perfectly. We have seen one of the best mobile networks in Europe. We have a very good broadband supply in the cities, but we need to catch up in the rural regions. [[Abg. Loacker: Those who know themselves with tractors also know themselves with the net!]] [[Further calls at NEOS and SPÖ.]] As a People's Party, we want to move forward with the comprehensive fibre-optic development. We also want state-of-the-art telecom technology for rural areas, and this requires state intervention. I even say that as an ÖVP politician. In order for this to work there, there is a need for framework conditions, and that is why it has been done that these agendas are located in the Ministry of Regions. A thought of civil service, because civil service is always discussed: It is not relevant where civil service is assigned that you do something. The Federal Minister has already announced a civil service summit. We need action in this regard. Civil service currently accounts for only 85 percent of the civilian services. There's going to be an action, and that's what I think is the most important thing. Personally, I am already very interested in the budget speech of our Minister for Finance. First key data are already scanning through: further tax reductions, entrance tax rate from 25 to 20, the second rate level from 35 to 30, increase of family bonus, employee participation, but also in the future no new debt, and that is, I think, a good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24961	The next speaker is Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e24985	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! It is about the budget commission, a vehicle, for which everything has already been said, but not yet by everyone. I conclude with a short story and would also like to address my previous speakers a little. My colleague, double farmer, meant what would happen here was nonsense. Mrs Colleague, I am against the fact that there have been elections. The elections had an outcome, a majority of Austrians have chosen a way, this path is now a new government. This new government has to carry out competence distributions and these powers need a budget. So not all that you do not agree with is nonsense, but it is political reality, and we will also put this political reality in figures with the budget commission, so that we - and this is the important thing about it - have an actionable government that has to carry out the budget. This is not a wish programme, but the government has a budget to carry out. Whether this is useful to you or not, be more secondary in that case. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] On behalf of Mr Vogl: Well, there have already been some hot air balloons in this room today, which are very colorful outwards and are not so much inside. To this end, the SPÖ is the Budgetanians and the government could have put forward a budget within two months: Ladies and gentlemen, you know exactly that has never been the case in all those years before, even with SPÖ participation. So why is it that the new government has not been able to put forward a budget within two months? Let's leave the church in the village! Minister Blümel will soon present a budget. Until then, we need a proposal, and today I ask the House to decide on this proposal. On behalf of Mr Lercher and the political secretary: I think there have been recently also in the Styria jobs that have been financed from strange sources. I think Mr Lercher knows what I'm talking about. Getting yourself here and chatting about it is already a bit exciting. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say one word to colleagues Angerer: Mr President, please do not be afraid of people by saying: You have to be afraid now! We have been elected by a majority, and our objective is, above all, to relieve people of the burden on the budget. We are continuing this course of discharge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Please don't paint demons on the wall! Don't scare people! We will make the right decisions, and the budget procedure is a good basis for this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25042	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 42 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in the third reading, I would also like to ask for an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. [[18:49:14]] 13. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the State Police Directorate Vienna, GZ. PAD/19/2395031/2 and PAD/19/2387323/2, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of David Stögmüller (35 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25098	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of this, so I will close the debate immediately. I ask the rapporteur if there is a wish for a final word. - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Immunities in 35 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the State Police Directorate Vienna [...] for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council David Stögmüller will be in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of David Stögmüller. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council David Stögmüller is not approved.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who join him to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[18:50:49]] 14. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the State Police Directorate Vienna, GZ. PAD/19/2387422/2 to support the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Michel Reimon, MBA(36 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25165	This leads us to the 14th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There's some word messages in front of me. First of all, Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25192	Madam President. High house! I would like to report to this item on the agenda because Assent to the official persecution of Michel Reimon was given by the State Police Directorate in Vienna. It is obvious to suspect that this is an administrative violation under the Convention. For me, it is the same case in itself as in the previous item on the agenda concerning Mr David Stögmüller. Regrettably, I had to say with astonishment that the Immunities Committee had agreed to extradition on the part of the government parties, although the opposition parties had chosen the same approach as in the Stögmüller case. Well, what distinguishes the two cases? – It is the same thing. ==References== September 2019 in the morning, when both colleagues, colleague Reimon and also colleague Stögmüller, participated in a blockade of access to the OMC tank camp and participated in an event and meeting of the Green Alternative Youth – an activity, an action in the course of the election campaign, which was not and is not unusual for the Green Party. An administrative breach was reported on the basis of the seat blockade and the resolution of this assembly. Now one could say that Michel Reimon is sentenced or delivered for another reason than David Stögmüller. - I just don't see anyone. Nor do I see the argument that Mr Stögmüller was a member of the Federal Council at the time of his action. If he has been a Federal Councillor, the question of immunity in the country day, where he has been elected, must be resolved. I therefore do not see this justification either. I therefore wonder why extradition has been agreed, also because the report of the Vienna National Police Directorate clearly shows that even the Vienna State Police Directorate assumes that it is non-professional immunity and that there is no link between political activity and action for it. That is to say, the report does not give any indication that this extradition should be accepted. I've been looking at the practice since 1979. I found that there were 157 requests for extradition and that only 36 consents were given. There is no precedent, however, such as those in which the consent to extradition has been granted. I therefore ask myself again: What's the reason? – I find no legal and objectively comprehensible reason. I see, rather, a disparity between the Stögmüller case and the Stögmüller case. In some cases, I even see discrimination and therefore a kind of erodement of immunity protection. 57 B-VG. This kind of thing. 57 B-VG is intended to protect our Members from being held responsible for actions carried out in the course of political activity, but also for actions on the occasion of an election campaign. If it is now the case that one deviates from this practice and creates a new precedent on the part of the government parties, one has to ask where to go. For me, there are only reasons for the suit. That's why Michel Reimon was delivered because he was uncomfortable? I have recently read an ORF article in which he has spoken out against the warrant. Maybe a reason is that some think he deserved it. – A question of the state of the art, as Viktor Frankl said. For me, it can only be that they say: The practice so far was a good practice. I would also ask that the modernisation and re-regulation of Members' immunity in the coming weeks – which will be discussed in the next item on the agenda – should also be the basis for this decision. In the sense of a credible approach to immunity, I would ask that all cases be treated the same way if the facts are the same. In that case We are therefore clearly saying that we as a group will not give any consent to extradition if it is such a matter that was not worthy of extradition in practice so far. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25256	The next item is the speech by Mr Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25277	Madam President. Estimated colleagues in the High Authority House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It's about the immunity case of Reimon. Mr Drobits, I think it is also a question of the propriety not to try by unsustainable accusations to drive a rope between coalition partners. I would like to explain to you the factual reasons for assessing this case differently from the previous case of Mr Stögmüller. It's right, it's both about participating in a demonstration. In contrast to the Stögmüller Member, who was present at the same demonstration, the current Member of Parliament Michel Reimon was at that time not a Member, neither a Member of the European Parliament, nor a member of the Federal Council, nor a Member of the National Council or a Land Day. [[Call the FPÖ:Egal, it depends on what he is now!]] Only the proceedings will be put at the moment when he is a Member. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of extradition – because always talking about it, it has to be delivered –: In the Immunities Committee, we first have to consider whether this act is clearly in no way related to political activity. If there is obviously no connection, the authorities will be able to prosecute criminal acts without further reference to the National Council, and there is no need for extradition. Only when there is a link to political activity can the decision be made whether an official persecution is agreed. This link between action and political activity is to be assessed in individual cases, and this is quite difficult to assess in individual cases. There is certainly no connection, however, if the perpetrator is not even a Member, as is true in the case of a specific case. But – that’s also important –: If, at the time of the deed, the person concerned was not a parliamentarian, but found himself in the election campaign and as a result of this election campaign, it was already the case that, in the course of an election campaign, actions were then subject to the appropriate immunity, but – again! – to judge a demonstration in itself as an election event would be too far-reaching. That means we say: This demonstration was not an election campaign, so this act cannot fall under immunity. That is why the Immunities Committee has proposed that there is no link to political activity and therefore an official persecution is possible. I give you the right to have a number of discussions on immunity. . More about the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25309	The next speaker is Mr Philipp Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25330	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TVs or via live stream! What is it about today? – It is about the same situation twice, namely a blockade – which is not uncommon for the Greens – of an OMV tank camp during the election campaign on 26.9.2019. On the one hand, in the case of Members of the Stögmüller, extradition is clearly refused, and on the other hand, the Greens and also the ÖVP want to approve the extradition with hairdressing arguments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen! Mrs Sigi Maurer spoke afterwards, but I have already explained to her in committee how it really is. [[Abg. Maurer: Dear, thank you!]] – Yes, you are sweet, thank you! In fact, however, it is: It is not the individual Members who are protected, but the legislation as a whole. Nor is it about when the incriminated act has happened, but it is important whether the honourable Member can now sit here in the hall or not and now give his voice, or whether he is deprived of the power of state from Parliament and almost prevents him from voting. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Unfortunately, many Members have still not understood it, and I also read today in the newspaper “Kurier” that Sigi Maurer has very generously renounced her immunity. [[Abg. Maurer: I'm on....!]] Mrs Maurer, you can't give up on anything you don't have. In order to bring a Latin quote, which is normally the activity of Mr Fürlinger, who unfortunately does not speak here today: Nemo plus iuris transferre potest quam ipse had. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Again!]] – You do not have the right of immunity, the right of immunity has this House as a whole, so only the immunity committee or plenary can give up on immunity or not, or deliver or not. Unfortunately, no lawyer here went to the pult by the ÖVP for nothing. [[Abg. Scherak: Fritz is a lawyer!]] [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] I certainly do not ride out for the Greens, but, ladies and gentlemen, I ride for parliamentarianism and democracy, and those who are treated differently were clearly not in line with the same situation. Here something is done that is not right. If you deliver one out of another and not the other – everyone notices that – you treat two people, two Members unevenly and you no longer take this Parliament, parliamentarism and democracy seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25422	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to try to bring this debate back a little bit more serious. [[Abg. Deimek: Serios!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In principle, in the Immunities Committee, we have the practice of deciding together as much as possible. I think that's good and right. This question: How do we deal with immunity in Parliament?, all of us, and that is definitely important. I also regret the failure in this case to reach a common decision. It is quite legally discusable how to explain these things, but there is a very clear difference between the two cases. By the way: There is no need to worry that Michel Reimon is being treated unfairly or discriminated against, he himself has acted for this interpretation – so don't worry that there is some kind of inequality in our treatment. The difference is, David Stögmüller was Federal Councillor and is therefore immune in his political activity. If someone is not yet a Member and the election campaign is covered by immunity, then the question is: What is election campaign? In our interpretation, the occupation of a street, as it was, does not include an election campaign and therefore does not include immunity. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You've occupied the entire Hainburger Au and now you're saying that's not an election campaign!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But I think it makes sense for us to discuss such questions. In fact, we have to discuss other issues here, namely: Who's actually responsible? It is not true – to the colleagues from SPÖ – that the Landtag would be responsible, because the Landtag is no longer responsible for the moment that David Stögmüller is no longer the Federal Council. So there may be a gap that we could discuss. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] There is a working group on immunity in which we all discuss together with our employees, with our club directors and the relevant Members. I hope that this discussion will bring us back to a common extradition practice. That, I believe, is a good thing for all of us, and I believe we can also afford to have a serious legal discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25522	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 36 of the Supplements: “In consideration of the request of the State Police Directorate Vienna, GZ. PAD/19/2387422/2, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Michel Reimon, MBAwird in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Michel Reimon, MBAbe.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – The request was accepted by the majority. [[19:05:59]] 15. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) (98/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25577	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mr Mag. Light peace. I'll give it to you. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25604	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen who are still watching! I believe that the two previous items of the agenda have shown that the debate on parliamentary immunity is one that we have to lead with great vehemence, since Of course, things change over time and the notion that the content of this immunity should also be a more changing one with time. Originally, this immunity was created in the monarchy parliaments when Members were to be protected from the arbitraryity of the monarchist executives, probably very rightly protected. In the meantime, it has developed into an instrument which, in my opinion, has to be very much dependent on two things: In any case, Members must be protected in their freedom of expression. The verbal representation of the interests of their electorate must never result in the limitation of Members by laws, by which executives can be restricted in their freedom of speech. The second is that Parliament as a whole should not be hindered in its capacity to work, that Members should always have the opportunity to take their seats in Members' seats, in order not only to speak for their electorate, but also to adopt laws in the end by their voting behaviour. Over time, and in fact in recent months, it has been noted that new obstacles to the work of Members are emerging. The example of the colleague Krisper noted that the executive, the police authorities, were suddenly interested in information that she had been given confidentially. The question was: Is this information protected by their parliamentary immunity or are they not? The bizarre outcome of this whole process was that it was actually found that the information was not protected by Mrs Krisper's parliamentary activity. But they are protected because Mrs. Krisper has a blog and so to speak enjoys journalistic immunity in this area. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not, in my view, the access that we should have for a longer time. This is something that must be changed, because we MEPs live on getting some information in our activities from people who may personally consider it dangerous to provide this information, even if it is legal. We live on the fact that we are well-informed, better informed than others to be able to form an opinion. It is also our task to expose corruption, to expose the mismanagement, to reveal operations in authorities that are illegal and do not comply with the laws. I believe that all this is a matter of discussion on what our immunity should look like in the future. I am already looking forward to the debates we are going to have here. However, I would appeal that this part of us should be debated more intensively and that we should all try together to change immunity so that parliamentary work cannot be restricted by such investigations, for parliamentary work will be more important than ever, ladies and gentlemen, in the times ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25650	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25674	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! The current request to amend the Rules of Procedure refers to an amendment of the nature. 57 B-VG, which was once desired, but which does not exist. I think that this can be no more than an incentive, an occasion, about an nan- Immunity law, for which a working group has also been set up. The debate on the previous item on the agenda has already shown how necessary. In my view, however, it is also important to note that immunity in itself is not a subjective right of a Member – who can give up on it – but rather a right of Parliament. It is a right of all Members to be able to take part in the meetings of the National Council in order to ensure the capacity of the National Council to act and function, namely to comply with the constitutional obligation of our Members. From this point of view, immunity should be considered. The historical reason for the introduction of immunity was the protection of Members from an overpowered administration. At that time, as today, it is natural to ask whether there is political arbitraryity or the aim of preventing or preventing Members' work. In the current case, the acceptance of a smartphone was the reason for the re-submission of this application. However, home searches are not mentioned, for example, in the specific request, although they are also the occasion for this. I think it will also be to be clarified whether, in the sense of a historical interpretation, one can also equate the acceptance of a smartphone with a house search, at least as far as the intensity of the intervention is concerned. On such a smartphone there are now almost all documents, all documents, the entire lettering, even telephone traffic, almost the entire life of a human being. Such a device can be much more serious than obtaining information in the context of a house search. Home searches were not included until later in the Rules of Procedure, because earlier a house search would have been allowed without any connection to the political activity of a Member. After all, the Constitutional Committee has already established in agreement with a Judicatur of the Constitutional Court that, for example, a person search falls under the concept of arrest, as can be read in the new comment of Professor Zögernitz. It will certainly also be to discuss whether a right of refusal, protection of sources and information protection does not constitute an extension of the position of a Member who is already privileged. I think that even in the light of current developments, there should not be an extension of privileged positions. Nevertheless, we must always keep in mind current developments. We need to discuss carefully, carefully examine and consider what is necessary to enable Members to do their work and to keep Parliament in a sustainable position. All of this will be to be discussed in the working group.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25719	Mr Mag. Harald Stefan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25744	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The two previous agenda items have already shown that there is indeed the need to think about immunity, because the current stage is very unsatisfactory. We have in itself an immunity to political activity. There is already a question of what the political activity is. I'll just say something about that. But we have the problem, that damage has already occurred with the extradition, with the demand for extradition, no matter how then voted here, and a kind of pre-condemnification takes place. In fact, this works very often for Members who are supposed to be protected by starting procedures on very different things, i.e. not on political issues, and then there is no protection of immunity. That is, when we discuss immunity, we should think about it and say: What can be done to limit a Member’s activities, usually one of the opposition, and where is there a fear of arbitrariness or at least an influence by the judiciary on the legislative one that is to be rejected? We should be seriously discussing this issue. Of course, the freedom of expression – which the honourable Member should be able to express and do – must also be protected. We now have the subject of political activity, which is protected, and I am completely different from that which has now been argued by the EIA and the Greens. I am convinced that the meaning of the law, the meaning of immunity, is that the Member should not be withdrawn from his function for political activities and statements or should be prevented from working. No matter if that was before his parliamentary activity, even if it was in the election campaign. If it was a political activity, it should be protected from it. It cannot be that it is the day of the Angelobung, which is crucial, but it must be the political activity in itself and the statements of the honourable Member in this regard. So I'm completely different. We then have the further issue that in the past there have been attempts on the detour of witnesses, with which we wanted to lead Members as witnesses who must express themselves under the duty of truth to call informers. We must therefore also be quite clear that there must be a clear right of refusal to make a statement in order to prevent this. There must also be no detour of indirect information about interceptions or withdrawals of electronic communications, which in reality undermines immunity and freedom of expression. There is really much to do here, and I hope that we will continue to develop the right of immunity here, through legal provisions, not by making decisions in committees in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25786	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Bürstmayr. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25807	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say to my previous speakers that laws are always in need of interpretation, and that is why we will always need an immunity committee, because no matter what our immunity rules look like, we will have to apply them practically, and for that we need a body. What's this about? - I think that's gonna be a little forgotten. It is not about the protection of the individual Members or Members, but about the protection of the clubs that they can participate in the parliament and the protection of Parliament as a representative body as a whole. It should never happen again that, through the pre-arrest of some or possibly even of one or two dozen Members, catastrophic laws have been passed. It is possible to see how that happened in Germany about the so-called empowerment law. This is the background of the immunity provisions and not the protection of individual Members. In addition, it should be noted that: What is it about in the Michel Reimon case? – To impose an administrative penalty of – correctly me if I’m wrong – 150 euros that Mr Reimon will pay for because he has set an act of civil disobedience. An act of civil disobedience is a rule violation, in which I know that I violate a rule and at which I buy the sanction that I have signed for it. It would be kind of a bit weird to say: But now I'm immune! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] But I'm actually talking about something else. We have received a request from the SPÖ from November 2019 concerning an amendment to the Constitution, namely Article 57 B-VG and the immunity provisions contained there. We have made a request from NEOS to extend the editorial secret to Members from the last meeting of this House during this legislative period. The SPÖ is also dealing with this problem in its request. However, she proposes to turn a very different, significantly larger vertical screw than that done by NEOS. Now the SPÖ comes up, hoppala, when we turn the big swivel federal constitution, then we also have to turn a screw on in the GOG-NR, because that is related. What does that mean? – That means nothing other than that of the evil saying: If you no longer know, do a working group!, in this case it is not evil, but it makes sense to bring it together in a working group that is already set up, and to listen together – but please not with 183 people, but with a much smaller group – as we here have the immunity to the 21. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] At the same time, both to discuss criminal proceedings, federal constitution and then possibly a third and a fourth law here in large plenary and to come to a green branch – I am afraid that we will not be able to do so in the next three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25868	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 98/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[19:21:53]] 16. Point First reading: Request by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, MA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. Act 1975) (127/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25907	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25934	Mr President. We have a first reading today on the opening of committees for the public. This is a long-standing demand from us NEOS. We don't understand why it was in the 21st century. It is still to be normal in the century that the people have no right to listen when we discuss in the Committee. There are very few public committees here in the house where you can even listen and get to it. This is quite normal in other parliaments. Look To the European Parliament: There you can watch live at every committee meeting, what happens there. That's normal from my point of view. Why should we, if we exchange arguments here, make them public and not in committee? In this respect, I would be pleased if this Parliament, too, at last had a rethinking on this issue and the other political groups also felt that it might be possible to do so in the 21st century. ==References====External links== I have seen before, if I am not mistaken, or Sigi Maurer of the Greens on the list of speakers, or perhaps someone else from the Greens speaks. In any case, I would be particularly interested in the position of the Greens, because the Greens were always in favour of transparency here in Parliament, also in connection with the opening of committees. I hope that the Greens will perhaps have a positive influence on the ÖVP, because the ÖVP would rather mean: I'm going to do something in the back room and tell no one, it's best not to hear anyone. As I said, I hope that the Greens there may have a positive influence that we in the Austrian Parliament will finally have in the 21st century. When we talk about Members of the European Parliament, we can always listen to the people of the century.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25971	Mrs Irene Neumann-Hartberger is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e25995	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear restful listeners! I am glad to be able to give my first speech here in the House today. As a low-Austrian farmer, I am the wife of around 40,000 farmers in rural areas and know many of their concerns and needs. It is a great concern to me and also a desire to help shape our regions and our habitat. As diverse as our society may be and as different as the demands for an attractive, viable rural area are, however, we are uniform on really important topics such as health care, flexible childcare, schools, care, mobility and infrastructure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] In our demands, we farmers no longer differ from the rest of society. That is why it is also so important for me to bring our demands to the table. My vocation was and still is to be a farmer with body and soul. Nevertheless, with every further function I assumed, I came to realize that commitment in the representation of interests and in politics is absolutely necessary in order to push forward positive changes. This activity fills me with joy and pride. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My first days in Parliament were marked by many intensive discussions, new tasks and unusual procedures. But it is a challenge that I accept with motivation and humility. Demands and requests only make parliamentary everyday life alive, which has again become very aware of me today. I also find the request made by Mr Scherak regarding the public of committee meetings interesting, even if this issue is not the latest. The That's... The fact is that the kiss is coming up again and again, and that's a good thing. However, I must bear in mind that committees are those committees where opinions should be expressed openly and views of all political groups should be expressed. That is precisely what is necessary and important. But all of this will be more difficult if this is to be done publicly in the future, because it can be quite unpleasant for individuals too, when their own position shifts towards a compromise. The basis of living policy is common compromises. I am nevertheless pleased to report that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, under our President-in-Office Sobotka, decided on Tuesday this week that negotiations on a reform of the Rules of Procedure will start again in Bälde, this spring. The public of the committees will be at the top of the agenda and will be discussed accordingly in the general package of the Rules of Procedure, and that, I am sure, with a good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26055	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Thomas Drozda. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26080	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am now a member of this House during the second legislative period. I have heard several committees, the Constitutional Committee, the Cultural Committee, the Financial Committee and the Budget Committee. I would not have bothered the public in any of these committee functions. For none of these functions it would have been harmful or problematic in any form. I don't tell a secret here, either, if I say, Nowhere was it so secret that one should not have discussed this publicly. In contrast to my previous speaker, I also believe that the public can make an opinion on the way in which we come to compromise, how we get closer to it. I don't think that's harmful. The long speech short is: As I believe in the question of freedom of information that there is a need to abolish the secrecy of office and turn it around in the direction of an obligation to provide information, I believe that committees should in principle be public, unless there are serious and serious arguments against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26110	Mr Magnette has now come to speak. Harald Stefan. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26134	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am different than Mr Drozda and our group in itself is not for the public of committees. I justify the following: The Committees are usually still under discussion, namely, seriously debated, not like here, where only is presented. A common solution is often found in the committees, and changes are being made there, and, of course, because the meetings are non-public, non-media-public, they are spoken in a different way. It is of course not so important for self-scheduling there. It is easier to admit something there, perhaps even once, and to go to the others. So it's going to be There much more meaningful and, yes, actually discussed in a way that is more likely to come to a solution. I think it would be bad if we turned it around now and say that committees are in principle public, except that the opposite is decided, because they create a pressure of justification, which, of course, will not be maintained regularly, and then, as a rule, each committee will be in truth public. As I said, it would do nothing good to parliamentarianism. The outcome of a committee meeting will be recorded anyway, there is Parliament's correspondence, which can be read by everyone. There is nothing secret there in the sense, it is not that there is something hidden, but one can speak freely there, and it is finally only summarized and presented the results. I think we would do nothing good to parliamentarianism if we made a fundamental change here, because we would in fact devalue the committees. These would then be small plenary sessions and we would have a small plenary session and a large plenary session. In both, only things would be exchanged, said in frontal terms, perhaps even in such a way that it would be as good as possible in the media. What is now taking place, namely a discussion, in which there are always changes, which then also results in perhaps more political groups participating in a decision, but would be abolished. That is why I am pleading for rethinking, and I hope that it will not come that far and that this request by NEOS will ultimately not be law.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26177	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26198	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens have always been in favour of the public of committees in the past. It is a question of transparency and also of accountability to citizens about what we are discussing here – although I hear the arguments. Perhaps during the one and a half years of our absence, the committees were particularly constructive and almost small working groups – it would surprise me a little if that were actually the case. As I said, in principle, we believe that it would be good if the committees were public and comprehensible, but I think we should continue to discuss this. I believe that it is important that we in Parliament also find a common solution on these issues. We'll have to discuss this for even longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26231	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 127/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[19:32:48]] 17. Point First reading: Proposal by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the (AMA Act 1992) (271/A)..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26280	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26307	Before that, I can still congratulate the Farmers' Federation on the protests that took place on Wednesday. [[Call the ÖVP:Thank you!]] It is truly surprising that, just before the election of the Chamber, the Farmer's Federation will once again become more coined and thus impressively proven its hypocrisy. [[Abg. Scherak: Oh, you!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] After all, the Farmers' Association has voted without squeakers for the abolition of the milk quota, the abolition of the suckler cow premium, the abolition of the diesel refund, the abolition of the beet quota, the uniform increase in value, the withdrawal of the bonding and the prohibition of plant protection products without appropriate replacement, the Biograin Regulation and increased environmental and animal protection requirements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would have been in the hands of the EIA if it had always been in the hands of the EIA to change the framework conditions, and it is a strange attempt to assign trade the sole blame for its inactivity, for its own inactivity. [[Abg. Prince:... Glyphosate!]] But now to the AMA and the AMA marketing, her 100 percent daughter. For those who do not know the AMA: The AMA is the control body and is responsible for unnecessary bureaucracy for the farmers. Your job would be to apply for agricultural products. On the one hand, they do this with the AMA seal, on the other hand with advertising, ads and other marketing activities. The AMA marketing is largely financed by farmers' hand: 19.3 million euros come from farmers, 1.3 million euros from EU funds, 3.8 million euros are other revenues. A peculiar feature is that producers, farmers, the processing industry and trade pay for advertising. Experience so far shows that real parliamentary control of the AMA and its subsidiary, the AMA marketing, is urgently needed – not only the problems surrounding the feeding surface determination on pastures showed this very clearly. The Court of Auditors reports repeatedly highlight many shortcomings and demand more transparency. The last audit of the Court of Auditors of AMA-Marketing GmbH revealed a wealth of irregularities and conflicts of interest in awards and others. The award of advertisements and support to associations and party media also requires effective and ongoing parliamentary control. There is a need for action. Parliamentary control of AMA marketing should be of course for all of us. Our request for a legislative amendment concerns the control body of the AMA. In order to achieve a democratic composition, we should necessarily involve all the parties represented in the National Council. At present, it looks like this body is exclusively occupied by ÖVP and SPÖ – and this is about the detour of the social partners. That is, out of five parties represented in the National Council, only two parties of the AMA can look at their fingers and control their practices there. Transparency should be important to all of us. [[Abg. Lightenness: speaking time!]] We hope that with this request we can bring the AMA and AMA marketing under parliamentary control. I call on all the parties represented here to support this in order to ensure greater transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26396	Mr Schmiedlechner, as I do in this House, I give a call for order for the accusation of'sin sanctity'. Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26431	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Mr Schmiedlechner asked that the AMA Board of Directors not only represent the social partners but also representatives of the political parties represented in the National Council's main committee. We already know this request, Mr Schmiedlechner, because you have already submitted it in 2014. Because you first spoke about the Farmers' Federation: The Farmers' Federation is always there for the farmers and not just for an election speech shortly before the election, as you have done now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As already stated: The AMA Management Council is a control body and is equipped with representatives of the social partners. These are three of the Chamber of Agriculture, of the Chamber of Commerce, of the Chamber of Workers and of the ÖGB. I'm going to point out a few points that show why I think that's good: There is also no political representation in comparable public-law companies, such as in the Ages. It would also not make sense to blow up this apparatus, because of course that would cause additional costs. The AMA also works as a paying agency, and it is important that no political influence is given, otherwise independence would be doubted. [[Abg. Loacker: Do you believe that yourself?]] One point that I think is still important: According to the Constitution, there is a separation between legislation and enforcement, and if you address the control of AMA by Parliament, I must say: You know that the Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament, and this is how the Court of Auditors controls it. We have often discussed reports about the AMA here in this House too. Furthermore, as the National Council, we also have the right to question the AMA, and there is also control by the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors. In this sense, I consider that an extension of the AMA administrative council is not necessary. As you have addressed the AMA: This has been in place since 1993. They've been critical, but I think she's still an institution doing good work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Forgedlechner.]] Through the AMA seal, our consumers also have the guarantee that they get Austrian products, and that is, I think, something very important.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26480	Mrs Cornelia Ecker has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26504	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my view, the present FPÖ bill is more than flawed in its explanatory statement. On the one hand, apples are compared to pears, because the Board of Directors of the AMA is a supervisory body and the §-7-Commission is only working consultatively under the Agriculture Act, i.e. no supervisory body in the ministry. The two bodies therefore have completely different tasks and their decisions have a completely different impact. Secondly, once again, it is very concrete to try to displace the well-functioning social partners and to create positions that are politically accessible to the parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the AMA Board of Directors is a social partnership. This has proved to be good, so should it. I also do not wish to mention that the AMA is subject to strict control, on the one hand by the Court of Auditors, and on the other hand by many other control bodies. Already in the past, the Austrian Court of Auditors has often pointed out the shortcomings that we have devoted ourselves to in Parliament, to the committee and which we have also cleared out. The annual AMA marketing report also shows a greater degree of transparency, and that is a good thing. We as SPÖ see the FPÖ request to extend the Board of Directors as an increase in bureaucracy, and in no way do I see personally, and I can also speak for my group, an improvement, which is why we will not approve either. However, I would like to come to this point and finally – I would have liked to have given it to the Minister for Agriculture, but she is not present – therefore, dear ÖVP, give you something: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Vogl]] [[Abg. Lighten: Where is it again?- Oh, my God!]] If we are going to pass laws here in the House, the Minister will also implement them. [[Abg. Lightness: Yes in the glyphosate, for example!]] We have decided to ban the glyphosate in Parliament here in the House, and I ask for the implementation at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26583	This is what Mr Alois Kainz has to say. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26607	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens at home! High house! In recent years, something has become increasingly important and important in our society, namely to be able to understand different processes and decisions, said simply: transparency. The agricultural market office Austria and its subsidiary, the AMA marketing company GesmbH, undoubtedly make an important contribution to Austria's agricultural policy. Despite everything, there is often a lack of transparency. The last Court of Auditors reports, in particular those relating to the AMA marketing GesmbH, showed that there was a wealth of irregularities, conflicts of interest and award failures. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need more transparency. Representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture, the Federal Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Trade Union Confederation are currently being sent to the Board of Directors of the AMA. On the route through the social partners, therefore, only ÖVP and SPÖ are currently sending the representatives. In our view, however, all parties represented in the main committee of the National Council should have the right to send a representative to the Board of Directors of the AMA. In this way, we could not only ensure better performance of the tasks and genuine parliamentary control, but also create greater transparency beyond the Court of Auditors' reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26637	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogluwer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26661	Spoštovani gospod president! Dragi kolegi, wear kolegic! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If we are talking about the agricultural market in Austria today, we are looking at the current Court of Auditors reports and we are not listening to what was written in 2014! We just received a follow-up report on the AMA marketing in January 2019, and we noticed that the Court of Auditors' criticism was very well perceived and heard. Of 19 cases 15 were implemented, four are in partial implementation – so it is not. We see that even in the AMA Court of Auditors controls and their objections are taken very seriously and there is also a certain degree of transparency. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] It's a step in the right direction. If you look at the current government programme, you will see that we will be very likely to devote ourselves to the evaluation of AMA marketing. It is also about the development of the AMA quality seal, just as we want to continue to force the freedom of genetic engineering and to use genetic engineering-free soya in Europe. At the end of the day, however, it is also a question of providing the best possible transparency when it comes to bringing agricultural resources to farmers, namely where we have advisory agreements between the Chamber of Agriculture and the AMA – there is also a need for transparency. We have written this in, and we are well aware of the task of making the AMA transparent for our farmers and ultimately for the population. You're right: The AMA has really failed a lot in the funding recovery fiasco relating to the alms promotions. The problem was that our businesses had no legal certainty, although they signed contracts. If one now looks at the current example of the pasture regulation, the AMA or all ministries and competent bodies have learned from it. We are looking for security for farmers, and the shoulder closure between ministries, control stations and the AMA has been successful. We are on the right track, and we will continue to rely on transparency in the future – certainly not with an application that seems to have been completed in 2014 but with a good planning and with a close of the shoulder of all those involved. - Hvala lepa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26712	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26737	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors, dear Advisors! This is a question of control, namely the control of a state body by Parliament. There is, of course, no objection to this. There was also a word-like request in 2017, which I agreed to at the time – by the way, on the recommendation of the Green Group – at the same time. What's this about? – The parties represented in the main committee of the National Council, i.e. the opposition parties, should be able to nominate a member for the Board of Directors of the AMA. This is, of course, better than the state of the isthmus, in which chambers and ÖGB are happy to continue to live out the red-black proporz, as if nothing had happened in the meantime. We all know that these organisations are not generally regarded as lighthouses of transparency. A good example of this is also the now inactive network of culinary arts Austria, located in the AMA marketing, and the embarrassing brand dispute, which is now being conducted with free associations, in which it is really about taking away this brand from the enjoyment regions. [[Abg. Straster: I'm going!]] We NEOS will look very, very carefully at how this goes on, and we will also work constructively, Mr President. Now to our criticism of this request: What we are not available as NEOS is the creation of new political jobs without added value. That's what we're saying. We don't want any bloated structures either. In principle, we simply need to look at who is currently sitting in this Board of Directors. If you see, as we have already said, that these are the chambers and the ÖGB, you simply have to say that our proposal will be that you take them out of the AMA administration council. Not everyone will be happy, but we should discuss that. We also need to consider in detail whether the Board of Directors is useful in its size, in the form and also in the cost structure, as it is currently set up. We will make a request tomorrow. I believe that everyone in this House will be very interested in what will come out. What we need – and that has already been mentioned – is simply a clarification, which should be the role of AMA marketing at all. Is the marketing of agricultural products, if it is centralized and collective, as it is being made at the moment, especially against smaller associations, as we hear and see again and again? I really don't mean this cynically now, when I say, we have to look at the added value that such an organization brings – I don't know how smart it is in times like this – and we need to discuss it seriously. What we want for the AMA is control, is transparency, is accountability; these three commandments should actually apply in any organization financed by taxpayers and, above all, by compulsory contributions. Every euro must be disclosed, any decision must be comprehensible. The back rooms, in which the officials make up something, are closed here. The Committee's work is ahead of us. I'm looking forward to it, maybe we'll take it a little bit further in this thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26775	Ing. Johann Weber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26800	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! But above all, ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! Due to the very good results of the election on 29 October. I am allowed to give my first speech today in the Austrian High House. I would like to express my warmest thanks to my supporters and especially to my voters. Thanks a lot! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After several decades of this election in autumn, we once again made a fundamental mandate for the ÖVP in my constituency – that is the Kärnten East constituency, which is the districts of Wolfsberg, Sankt Veit and the international market – and this fills us and me with great pride. Anyone who knows me knows I'm taking the work in the constituency very seriously. As a teacher at the agricultural school in Sankt Andrä in the beautiful Lavant valley, I am pleased that I will be able to contribute my experience in the teaching committee, in the scientific committee and in addition as a substitute member in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Especially as a representative of the people of Carinthia, I am looking forward to the Committee's activities in the Tourism Committee and in the Committee on Human Rights. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Now to the FPÖ's present proposal: The agricultural market Austria is a public law company that has existed since 1993. The AMA performs a large number of tasks. Yeah, we've heard about it, and public funds are managed on behalf of the government. The AMA is therefore rightly subject – I stress: rightly! – the strict audit by the Court of Auditors. That's right and that's good. Throughout Europe we are admired for institutions such as the social partners and also the AMA. The fact that the Board of Directors of the AMA is being sent by the Austrian social partners has proved successful. In particular, in the light of the Court of Auditors' already strict audits, I do not see any reason for unnecessary bloating on the Board of Directors, as provided for in the request. There should also be no mixing of legislative and executive. I think, above all here in the House, we should think together of simplifications in future, make things much more efficient and thus more transparent, rather than complicate them and make them much more transparent. In this sense, I look forward to constructive cooperation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26858	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 271/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. [[19:54:32]] 18. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Austrian Citizenship (State Citizenship Law 1985 – StbG), BGBl. I No. 96/2019, amended (272/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26902	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to you. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26930	Mr President. High house! Fathers. South Tyrol is – I hope or believe – a heart attack of every Tyrolean. Just a moment to remember: The three division of Tyrol is now good 100 years ago. 100 years ago, 1919, Tyrol was beaten into three parts: North Tyrol, South Tyrol and East Tyrol. In the last 100 years, the history of Tyrol has also played a crucial role in this division. There was a very difficult phase during the Second World War or before the Second World War in connection with the optants. After the end of World War II, there was also a very difficult phase for our South Tyrol fellow citizens, when Italy was really trying to Italianize South Tyrol more or less. There was, as everyone, I think, still in memory or know, also in South Tyrol a struggle for freedom, which then resulted in autonomy, which – you can say in a calm way – brought peace and prosperity to South Tyrol. However, we all know here in the hall that from South Tyrol there are very massive aspirations and the real desire to be able to claim double citizenship as a South Tyrolean, because there is also membership with the Austrian language group. There is a country-day decision of the South Tyrol countryside, an initiative of 51 people who are not free, but many of them belong to another group, who have expressly reaffirmed this wish. In addition, there is, of course, a very strong desire from the people of South Tyrol to make possible and allow for different signature actions and the urgent request for Austria to allow this double citizenship. To recall the new ones who came after the last election: We have already decided in this House, with a motion for a resolution, also with a majority and with the agreement of the EIA, that this will be possible. Now, suddenly, no one can remember this decision here in the House, and everyone is trying to sort of hide away. This can and will not work. I also say it quite clearly and clearly: The decision to whom we allow dual citizenship is the exclusive responsibility of the Republic of Austria. We don't need to ask anyone. We don't need any consent either. In the case of Italy, I may mention again if someone should have forgotten: Italy has already done this several times, 2006 the last time it allowed former citizens in Dalmatia and Istria to double citizenship. I come to the conclusion, because I believe we will continue to discuss the subject in detail. It is perfectly clear to me as a Tyrolean: We will and must allow our South Tyrol neighbours dual citizenship. I ask all of you here in plenary for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26970	I now turn to Ing. Josef Hechenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e26994	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated guests here in the hall, but especially at home in my federal state of Tyrol, in my constituency Kufstein, Kitzbühel and especially in my home town Reith! Above all, I would like to greet my neighbor, Brun, from this point of view. This is my first speech here in plenary. I should like to talk about a subject that is especially important to me, dear Peter, about South Tyrol. But before I go into this issue, I can talk a little bit about how difficult it is to come to citizenship. A good friend of mine came from Holland to Tyrol 20 years ago, fell in love with Tyrol and married one of my best friends. In the meantime, they have founded a family and started a farm. She is a very creative and innovative farmer. She is still fighting for Austrian citizenship today, and I think that's a good thing, because granting citizenship must, I believe, be very well thought out and well thought out. On the topic of South Tyrol: We maintain an intensive exchange with South Tyrol. We know, for example, that in 1904 the Tirol Farmers' Federation was founded in Sterzing in South Tyrol. Whether professionally, personally or economically – the exchange with South Tyrol is intense. It is also true that the European region of Tyrol is very intensively changing or is trying to develop itself. I think more crucial than dual citizenship is that we exercise the protection function for South Tyrol and secure and guarantee the autonomy of South Tyrol from Austria. I think that's the real core task. On behalf of the Group of the The granting of dual citizenship is certainly a very sensitive issue. We know it would be very good if we were to agree in Austria, but the fact is: It must agree with Rome, it must agree with Brussels, it must agree with Bolzano and Vienna. [[Abg. Worm: This is wrong!]] [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true!]] I have to say that it is true that on the last visit of our President, Italy has clearly said that there is no participation or participation. I also believe that the FPÖ's request raises many questions that it raises more questions than answers. What about rights and obligations? Every citizen has rights and obligations; Right to vote, compulsory military service and many more. We also know that, according to our government agreement, the current federal government, it is not planned to implement this approach of dual citizenship. In the old Federal Government it was planned, but we know that this has just failed due to Ibiza. On behalf of Mr Schmiedlechner, on the previous item on the agenda: There's no need to change the law for the AMA. You only need to take part in the elections, to be elected, then you can discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27041	Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27066	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! Did you actually know that only 6 percent of the population of South Tyrol are in favour of getting Austrian citizenship? The project, followed by the government of Kurz/Strache, of a dual citizenship for German- and Latin-speaking South Tyroleans, which is being taken up again with this request, is in many ways problematic. On the one hand, Austrian citizenship law pursues the principle of avoiding multiple citizenship, which is based on a broad political consensus in Austria. There are no exceptions, for example the direct origin of a parent or the country of birth principle. Of course, it must also be distinguished whether the citizenship of a country in which the affected person lives is sought. - All of this is not given. The project has already provided proper irritations in our neighbouring country of Italy in 2017. In particular, the rejection by Italian Minister of the Interior Salvini, who is someone who is politically close to you, was particularly vehement. He has repeatedly made it clear that there is a veto of Italy against the double pass. Double citizenship is also very controversial in South Tyrol. I have also read with interest the justification of the request, and here it says that you would fulfil a wish. This desire alone does not seem to exist in the South Tyrol population, because, as mentioned at the outset, only 6 percent of the population are considered to be a very good idea, according to surveys and accepted studies. [[Abg. Worm: That's what you've miswritten, Mrs. Colleague!]] However, the majority is against it. [[Abg. Worm: You have to look at it again!]] 63 percent see this as problematic and reject it completely. If only certain South Tyrols receive dual citizenship, the conflict potential within the population is already very high, and Austria is now regarded as a friend country but no longer as a home country. The Italian government and South Tyrol's head of state Arno Kompatscher already had massive criticisms in 2017 and still do so. We see this demand disrupts the good relationship between Italy and Austria, but a good bilateral relationship with Italy is one of the foundations for a functioning autonomy of South Tyrol and the protection function that Austria exercises. [[Abg. Worm: I now know why there are no Social Democrats in South Tyrol!]] All of this should have led to the fact that the current Federal Government is no longer continuing to do so – from our point of view rightly. Ladies and gentlemen! As we have heard today, South Tyrol currently has more pressing concerns and problems to solve than a double citizenship. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27129	Mag. Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27153	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! I'll take a brief look at the following: The Italian Government rejects this approach, the South Tyrol population rejects this approach, both the German-speaking and Italian-speaking, and we reject this approach. [[Abg. Worm: That's me.]] [[Abg. Worm: Make yourself smart, Mr. Col.... facts!]] – End of the announcement, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27201	Dr Helmut Brandstätter is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27226	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I won't do it as fast as my colleague, Bürstmayr. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] Of course, we could now discuss the history of South Tyrol for a long time, which is very interesting. But it has already been mentioned – I even have the graphics here; this is a survey made by Professor Pallaver with others, namely all three groups of people, Germans, Italians and Ladins, and it is clear that: [[Keeping a document in height]] Two thirds of the population do not want to do so. - That's the first point. The second is – and you can also read this at Professor Pallaver – very important: It's very complicated legally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] Who's a German? Someone who declares himself as a German, or does he have to be able to prove that his ancestors lived in the Habsburg monarchy? – It’s extremely complicated. Theoretically, if it went through, someone who says he has recently had Italian citizenship, live in Bolzano, explain himself as a German – he may be Mexican, perhaps, even worse, an Arab, there are She's just scared – and all of a sudden, she's getting Austrian citizenship. [[Rejoicing with Green MEPs]] [[Abg. Anger:... Double citizenship!]] You don't want that at all. It's very legal, very delicate. The third thing: You would've been surprised if I hadn't brought you a book, it's from my friend Lorenz Gallmetzer. [[keeping an up-to-date edition of the book “From Mussolini to Salvini”]] Unfortunately, I can't give it up, because there's a dedication inside, but please buy! Lorenz Gallmetzer explains in “From Mussolini to Salvini” – – – – Horcht once! - No, it's worse. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Now listen, it's worse! Salvini is one, the other is the Fratelli d'Italia. These are the fascists. They want to make one another a government. You know what's going to happen? – Simple: The South Tyrol autonomy will be at risk, because your nationalist friends are Italian nationalists who have nothing at all to do with autonomy. That's exactly what we're risking. [[Abg. Worm: Who are you defending?]] We want to be Europeans, we want European citizenship, we want to be European. The South Tyrol friends also do not want this Austrian citizenship. Read books! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27327	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 272/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[20:08:23]] 19. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Wehrgesetz 2001 – WG 2001, BGBl. I No. 102/2019, amended (273/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27366	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Dr. Bösch, spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27393	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this request, we Liberals call for the following: ‘The main the Committee of the National Council shall be immediately reported by the Federal Minister for Defence of the Federal Forces to assist forces.’ We were forced to make this request on the basis of media reports which have, in some way, spoken: “For the first time, the experts of the Federal Army are providing assistance for the Enlightenment and Defense of a Cyber Attack to the Foreign Office,” said Klaudia Tanner. “The Ministry of the Interior of Karl Nehammer had requested the immediate commitment of party friend Tanner.” Ladies and gentlemen, the main committee of the National Council is already deciding a lot about national defence, for example the foreign operations, but also the exercise catalogue of the Austrian federal army. We also consider it necessary to report to the main committee, in this area of assistance operations, to the Minister of State Defense or to the Minister of State for Defence concerning the protection of constitutional bodies or the capacity for action of the Republic. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27439	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Manfred Hofinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27463	Mr President. High house! Today, we are discussing the FPÖ's own-initiative proposal that the Wehrgesetz be amended in such a way as to report to the main committee when it comes to assistance. The reason for this debate is the use of assistance in the cyber-attack to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's got to be public. With joint efforts by the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, it has succeeded in successfully defending this attack. Two weeks ago, this attack was announced. All the forces are needed in such a sneaky attack. I would like to thank you very much for the fact that the Ministries worked day and night to become the Lord. In principle, of course, all the authorities of the municipalities, the countries and the Federal Government can ask for assistance – there is an exact procedure as it is going on – but I would just like to take two examples. When it comes to assistance with more than 100 soldiers, the Federal Government must agree, and only when it comes to an immediate threat can an assistance be used with coordination between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. However, I would also like to stress that the assistance agencies in Austria are of vital importance and are becoming increasingly important. In addition to border protection, assistance in natural disasters and major accidents, protection of constitutional institutions and the task of ensuring security and order for the people of Austria, cybercrime and hacker attacks are a very essential point to which we must devote ourselves. For this purpose, last year, the Task Force on Hybrid Threats was set up, including all the key actors in security in Austria, whether the Federal Criminal Office, the Defence Office of the Army, the Army News Office or the BAT, as well as all Ministries. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank all soldiers and their superiors for the assistance work they have done. ensure security in Austria and, above all, provide safety for the population. In this sense: Let us continue to discuss in committee! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27508	I call Mr Laimer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27530	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The cyber attacks on the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs have kept our Republic in chess for weeks – the emphasis is on weeks. In addition, the question should also be asked whether the Ministries are in a position to defend them quickly in the case of new attacks, which are possible at any time. There is, at least, an urgent need for action. Because people across Austria could be affected, I also expect immediate action from the Federal Government. Where is the common strategy for the defence of cyber-attacks and, in general, for the defence of new threats? – It will probably not be the planning of the government VIP bunker from which I have learned from today’s media. Or is it the colportated general government position center, in order to elucidate the situation of the few VIPs? Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of our constitutional institutions is by all means – by all means! – to ensure and maintain. Parliamentary control in our rule of law is essential here. In crises and in exceptional situations, the assistance of the Austrian federal army is essential for security in our state, both domestically and abroad. As a Member of this House, we have all the rights and obligations to our Republic. We must therefore also make use of our right to obtain the necessary information in a timely and formal manner, and therefore – I am at the point – the request of Mr Bösch goes in the right direction, namely that the Federal Minister of State for Defence has to report promptly and comprehensively to the main committee of the National Council in relation to the assistance of the German army in the case of elementary events or crisis cases. Ladies and gentlemen, threatening crises and growing uncertainties can only be met with a high degree of transparency. A rigorous exchange of information between government and the National Council at an eye-to-face level and in professional quality not only strengthens our rule of law, but can also provide people with new confidence in the politics that we – all parties in this House – urgently and bitterly need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27567	Ing. May. Volker Tireberger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27591	Mr President. High house! As a military officer, it is a matter of my heart to speak on this request from our interlocutor Dr. Reinhard Bösch. I can also take the opportunity to congratulate him from the speaker's desk on his transport to the Brigadier. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as by Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] According to § 2 Wehrgesetz, the German army has four tasks: first, the military defence, second, the protection of constitutional institutions and democratic freedoms, and the maintenance of order and security inside, third, the assistance in the event of elementary events and accidents and fourth foreign operations in the context of peacekeeping and assistance. In addition to dealing with its main task, the military defense, the German army has been demonstrating since the beginning of its existence how many dedicated soldiers can do at home and abroad – despite the constant proximity to financial hunger and the political misunderstanding of some other parties. I am all the more surprised that the elected representatives of the National Council often need to learn from the media and not be informed by the respective ministers. If we let Revue happen over the past few years, we see that the Austrian federal army has been repeatedly used for assistance and is also becoming ongoing. I am thinking, for example, of the chaos of Red-Black in 2015, where tens of thousands of migrants have been left in our country or swept through the country, of the following assistance at the borders with Hungary, Slovenia and Italy, which continues to this day, the assistance to the embassies to protect against potential attacks of those who have previously left the old parties Red and Black in the country, the assistance in elementary events through flood and snowfall in 2019, the assistance in recent weeks by cyberdefence experts of the Federal Government to counter an unprecedented hacker attack on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger]] In a parliamentary democracy, it is only cheap and right that we too, the legislative, be informed of such events in good time by the respective ministries so that we can also exercise our political control function. For this reason, we have made a request for the Wehrgesetz to be extended by an addition, so that in future the main committee of the National Council needs to be informed immediately when the Federal Government is drawing up assistance services. Even if other parties often consider the issue of national defence very critically or face it openly hostilely, as perhaps the case with colleagues of the Greens, or rather indifferently or opportunistically, as shown by the black and red policies of the last decades, there should be an immediate transfer of information to the National Council in the sense of all of us. I would therefore ask you to support this request here in this House, through your responsibility as a Member of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27649	Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27673	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, there are different types of assistants in Austria, in a peaceful country. It has already been listed a lot: Natural disasters, accidents, but also, of course, security assistance missions. In the case of cyberattacks, it would be a security-political risk to introduce an automatic system, to introduce the inconspicuousness of the The framework of the main committee shall be provided with information and shall be immediately informed to the National Council. I think that what you are calling for here is honestly irresponsible. Of course, and in principle, the National Council should be informed of this when there are things that concern the Republic, and of course we are here for full transparency. However, what you are demanding here is (a) disproportionate, (b) it can only be quite a safety risk, and there are no criteria as to what this will ultimately look like. Whether the main committee is really the right body, I dare to doubt. It can be discussed whether the National Defence Committee or the Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee would be the appropriate place. We know – the colleague of the ÖVP has said this – that the Federal Government is always informed when it comes to greater efforts. That means: Please, let's stay here. Let us discuss how we actually guarantee the information of the National Council when it comes to important interventions, but please do not make an occasion legislation because you have read anything in the paper! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27715	Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27740	Mr President. High house! The last visitor on top of the gallery! Parliamentary control is, of course, a very important matter and I therefore think that it is quite positive for the colleagues of the FPÖ. There are many other areas in the national defence, in which we should talk about parliamentary control – the intelligence services, for example, and so on –; I believe that we should and should be able to strengthen them, and I am very much looking forward to the discussion. I would just like to add one thing here, because now all are talking about this cyber-attack and the German army's assistance: On the one hand, of course, it is great what has been done by officials, but one thing must not be forgotten: The Federal Army may even be responsible itself, and it might have been responsible for this cyber-attack. We distinguish between cyberincident and cyberdefence. A cyberdefence case is, for example, when a state attacks. The problem we have is: One does not know, of course, whether this is a state attack or just a small incident – so to speak, just a small accident – that happens. That is exactly what the problem is, and I think that is something we should talk about: How do we manage this process, the transition between them? When does the BMI take over the defence of the state? There are, therefore, many exciting issues that we also need to discuss in the Committee, far beyond this case, and I am therefore looking forward to the debate and the further debates that will follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27777	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 273/A to the National Defence Committee. [[20:23:38]] 20. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues on a federal law amending the 2014 High School and Higher School Law (274/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27818	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Dr. Martin Graf came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27846	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have already heard a lot about the Rules of Procedure today. Perhaps at the debate on the Rules of Procedure the Institute of First Reading can also be discussed, because I believe that just as we are currently doing the first readings, this is not the yellow of the egg: at the end of the agenda, in the evening, with the exclusion of the public. In fact, an important instrument, namely the right of initiative of Members, is being discussed. Hardly anyone listens here in the hall, only a few fans clap at the end, and that was it, and you're going to the next item on the agenda. Perhaps it can be considered that each group also has the right to have a first reading at the beginning of an agenda sometime, so that the public can share a bit and it becomes more exciting. I'm sorry, Professor Blimlinger, for speaking after me. It must then be evocative, excluding the public, so that it brings in a bit of mood and more. [[Abg. Anger: He's not a professor, he's a magister!]] - What? [[Abg. Anger: She's not a professor!]] Is there no - - Mrs. Professor Blimlinger - why? She was a rector! [[Abg. Anger: She's just a magister! ... Parliament Info Service...!]] She's just Mrs. Magister, doesn't she even have a doctorate?- Oh, my God! Has the woman never been a doctor? She was a rector! How's it going? - Well, in Austria everything goes. The main thing is, you're green, because you often don't need a lot of qualifications, don't you? [[Complementary and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] On the whole, this first reading is also about a support rocket for the reform of the Austrian high school. On the one hand, we want to clean up with the general political mandate in the Austrian high school because it is exclusively the executive, which is very left and left-wing, and it is not intended and abused. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] On the other hand, we also want to bring down the valorization and indexation that can be found in the ÖH contribution, in the compulsory contribution. This is not even the case with the study funding contributions. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – What I have always said: No one is watching at first reading, it's almost for the fish when you talk there. – But let me add one point or another: Finally, it is also about reducing the ÖH contribution to the extent of what participation in the election – that is, 25 percent – to this Chamber of Forces, which – not about these in particular – we have already discussed a lot today, about the interest in it. This is the carrier's rocket, because the representative of the high school with its forced contributions does not actually perceive what students really are doing. There is nothing at all about the studentship about access restrictions – that you move into the field in this regard – or about study contributions and fees. There is no way of falling into a disreputed system in the universities, there is no teaching and learning freedom, but for this we had a high schooling, which exercises the general political mandate excessively and organizes and finances the most important hate events against political dissidents. [[Abg. Zorba:... Antifascism!]] [[Abg. Soundmeiner:... order call!]] It must be concluded that those who are affected by violence and hatred due to their belief in the world must still finance it. Therefore, one should also discuss an opt-out possibility for those who do not even want to represent the Austrian high school, but even fight: that at least these are exempted from the forced contribution, because otherwise it would be similar – and this contradicts the good practices and is unscrupulous – as if one would demand that a victim of violent perpetrators also pay the lawyer in a trial. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] That's the carrier rocket. We want to discuss this at the second and third readings, and I hope it will be an exciting discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27968	I call Mr Nico Marchetti. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e27993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, it is a bit frustrated that every debate we have held here in recent months about universities has always been about: Once the left is against the right, then – as is the case today – the right is against the left. I really don't think that's what our universities deserve. These are not arenas for political extremes, but places where people are to be taught education, where they are to be prepared for a democratic discourse, and perhaps we are saving ourselves this mud battle of left and right! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Of course, I also understand that one is criticizing the ÖH. I have done so, for example, in my last speech. I also do not like everything that one or another ÖH union group does and how it expresses itself politically, but it cannot be the solution, Mr Graf, that because of this it is cut short, makes it mouth-dead, takes away from them the competences – only because they do not say what you are pleased with, Mr Graf! That's not how it works. That's just crazy! [[Congratulation of ÖVP and Greens.]] I also believe that not all citizens are happy about the forced contributions that taxpayers give you in the form of club contributions, as one can see what Mr Strache is doing with them. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: That you... know that eh!]] So such discussions do not end; and I do not think that you want us to open up such things either. [[Abg. Martin Graf: You want a forced contribution where it goes!]] The ÖH contribution: Of course, 20,20 euros isn't for a student or a student now, but I think it's a fair contribution to what they get. There are quite a lot of university groups that do excellent service work, by the way, mostly with volunteers. [[Abg. Martin Graf: You should promote that!]] I think you should say that on the spot. This also receives a good feedback from the students, which is very useful, and I think we all do not want to question that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would be really pleased if we were to conduct the next debate at universities in this House on the quality of universities, on things that we can do better there – and not on any ideological mud battles – from any direction, Mr. Graf. [[Abg. Martin Graf: When do you finally start to say what content?- Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28106	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Andrea Kuntzl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28131	Ladies and gentlemen! In the first readings, one tends to try to find points where one feels that one may come together on a green branch, starting points to find a way together. I have tried to make this request, I have not found such a point of approach. This is a lukewarm attack on the legal representation of students, which is because you, Mr Graf, and your group, are politically inappropriate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: But at least he's honest, isn't he?- Oh, my God!]] Let us say: Not all you don't fit is radical! – It is really ridiculous to say that the ÖH, which consists of selected left-wing student groups, which partly belong to parliamentary parties, is a left-wing radical group. This is really a very sloping political puncture, which I must also point to the sharpest. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The only reason why the student representation is because it does not fit you politically in the current form, in its material foundations and in its political rights, is not questionable in a good, decent democracy, as we are, Mr Graf. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I must say that so clearly at first reading. Especially surprised me Your humorous cynicism: In the last legislative period, you have decided on massive deterioration in access to universities – you have voted as a government party, of course you voted in favour – and then stand here and say: Yes, the ÖH belongs to something done because they like what we've done. – So really: Cynicism is almost impossible. But I can connect with my previous speaker from the ÖVP: I too would like to talk about other things and work on them here as far as university policy is concerned. I would like to work on how we can improve the study conditions and how we can improve the economic situation of students.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28183	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Eva Blimlinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28208	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I have to speak once again on 1848, as the historical memory of the FPÖ is obviously a dwindling one because it calls it its revolution in 1848. These were politicized students who did this. I know the NEOS claim it for themselves, too, they can better remember it. [[Abg. Martin Graf: With forced contributions? Did they cancel compulsory contributions at the time?]] They want a depoliticization of the ÖH. – Mr Graf has been trying to do so since 2000; he has not succeeded. And it is also good that he does not succeed because the ÖH is a representative of interest with which the students have their general political mandate. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ]] Today, in our motion for a resolution on anti-Semitism, we have had the Jewish high school students here. They have a general political mandate as a group in the Austrian high school industry. They have the mandate to also act against anti-Semitism at the universities, and they have done so in recent months in connection with Lothar Höbelt. This includes a general political mandate – and we will always defend and demand it in the sense of democracy. Let me make an additional comment: Our current club chairman Sigi Maurer was president of ÖH from 2009 to 2011. And as many of you know, she was in Parliament at the budget debate on 22 February. December 2010 – not by this one, but in the house, which is now being renovated – was dropped by the gallery and was banned for 18 months. As chairman of an ÖH, which has a general political mandate, she has then made a political career – like many here in the High House who were active in the interest of the students, the Austrian student. It may not be a coincidence that you want to ignore the general political mandate to the OH: The RFS, your preparatory organisation in the field of students, unfortunately has only 1.9 percent – this is a percentage that I would personally wish for you here in the House, because then you would not sit here. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: 25 percent voter participation, 75 percent...!]] They're not tearing at the universities. You don't have one there. This also depends on the fact that you prefer to wear peeks and mountain kittles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28308	Mr Yannick Shetty is now on the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28333	Mr Graf, the point you just called through the room is a very good hanger for what I actually wanted to say. Maybe from this left-right hack, which also reminds me a little of the ÖH, back to factual arguments: I don't know who has ever attended an ÖH meeting of you. It is, in part, really huge what is being discussed there. Sometimes one has the impression that the interests of the students are the last thing that matters in this body. Much prefers to be discussed about major social policy issues, about foreign policy, that is, a lot of things that have nothing to do with the actual interests of the students, or about the immediate interests of the students. That is why we do not think so because a representation of interest, which represents the interests of its members of the self-representation, leads itself ad absurdum. That is why we have repeatedly made two demands in the High House for a number of years, but also in high school political terms, namely to abolish the general political mandate and, on the other hand, to end the compulsory membership – not only in the ÖH, but also in the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour – as we have discussed today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Good representation of interests does not require any compulsion. A poorly managed representation of interest, such as the ÖH in recent years, needs this compulsion because without this compulsion you would run the members away in crowds. Although I assume that Mr Graf has the same political intention as we do, this request is, first of all, contradictory as regards the positioning of FPÖs so far and second in his explanatory statement. He is contradictory because the FPÖ and its colleague – I believe it is only a colleague of the RFS in the Federal Office – have been in favour of the abolition of compulsory membership, but now you say goodbye to this idea and only demand a reduction of the ÖH contribution to EUR 5.50. Secondly, and this is actually the central point, this request is particularly revealing in its polemic statement. They don't want to get the ideology out of the ÖH; They only want to remove the left from the OH and instead wish themselves much more right-wing social policy. However, the ÖH is not a playground, neither for right-wing nor for left-wing officials who want to carry out their ideological tomb struggles at the expense of the students. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] It must again be what it is intended to be, namely, a real representation of interest to students, that is to say, students.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28387	Mrs Martina Kaufmann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28409	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Austrian University School here at a first reading. The discussion is already a bit widened, because I believe that we too are elected representatives here, so that interest representatives of our constituencies, our professional groups and so on, should not in any way call into question an OH which is a representative of interest for students. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: It's questioning itself anyway!]] As a former student representative and also a representative of the ÖH, I can say: Yes, sometimes discussions are held when you ask yourself: Well, does that have to do with the actual representation of interest?, and it would probably be more useful if it were to focus on really moving forward the representation of interests and the ideas, wishes and demands of the students. But, as we all know, it always depends on the protagonists. I can say that there are some who are very, very strongly involved in the representation of interests. One, for example, is the ÖH chairman of the Karl-Franzens-Universität Armin Amiryousofi, with whom I can also work more closely and who, by far, does really good work with his team in the representation of interests. That's the one side. On the other hand, another task that the ÖH has in addition – you must not forget – is to offer service facilities for students, from information to copy service. All of this does the Austrian high schooling, and even there we should not circumcise it. I believe it is our duty as a Member of Parliament to enable democracy and to continue to allow the representation of the students in Austria. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] In summary, I also hope, as some speakers have said before me, that we can talk about other things in terms of universities, namely how we can improve quality, how we can provide even more support and train even more young people in Austria and also bring them to research so that we as a location Austria are well protected and deal with these things here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28459	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 274/A to the Scientific Committee. [[20:42:25]] 21. Point First reading: Request by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law establishing the Income Transparency Act (277/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28499	We're coming to the 21st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28526	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Twice a year we talk a little more about income differences, when you take the equal pay day in spring – that was before yesterday – or that in autumn. There are differences in the federal states. Vienna is always the very best federal country, and it's no secret if I tell you why. This is because there are the least women in part-time employment, because the offer of childcare is the best in all of Austria and because it also makes the salary situation of women a bit different than in other federal states. In addition to a package of measures, which would have to be tied to make the drum fit, it is also a question of how we can improve the existing income reports, which were set up by law some years ago, because the income reports that need to be laid down are a very rough and superficial presentation of the income differences between women and men in a farm and do not give any information on how overtime, bonus payments, part-time or full-time effects. That is why, and I am looking forward to the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have now put forward a proposal on how to create an income transparency law that includes: I believe that it would be important to be able to collect individual data via the employees – this makes the pay billing, that makes the personnel billing – so that you can get a good overview of the differences, for example, who works the number of hours or how long someone is already in operation. This is the so-called employee directory. As far as the income report itself is concerned, it is ambitiously listed in the government programme that one wants to unify this almost. Many years ago we sent patterns to all businesses. This does not have to be a telephone book, it can also be an income report which does not have such a It has strength, but still contains all the important information. There is also a proposal for this. Of course, one should be allowed to talk about the content in-house, but what has not been the case so far: If nothing happens, there must be any sanctions. That is why we propose: between 500 and 1 000 euros if someone does not stick to it. It would also be important that once a works council is present, it is mandatory to talk to the works councillor, how these income differences can be reduced or eliminated. This would be quite a matter of roughing up this proposal, and I am looking forward to the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy as early as next week.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28574	Mrs. Maria Großbauer has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28599	Mr President. Dear Seers! High house! I should like to speak on the SPÖ's request for an income transparency law. It is therefore about the demand for disclosure of all salaries in operation. As has already been said, the current SPÖ proposal will be allocated to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, and the Committee will look at it carefully and examine it. However, what I would like to hold on to this issue in general: We from the People's Party do not want more bureaucracy, even more effort for our entrepreneurs in this country. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The women are yours!]] We stand for debureaucratisation, deregulation and equal pay for equivalent work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Above all, there is already a database: Every employer, every employer who employs over 150 employees permanently, is already obliged to produce a report on remuneration analysis every two years. As the SPÖ rightly states in the statement of its request, there have been some improvements in recent years to God. It is good to see that, due to a variety of measures and also a constant change in social consciousness, the income shears between women and men from year to year close more, even without an income transparency law. Yes, there is still a large gender paygap, and we absolutely need further measures to strengthen wage fairness between men and women, but a positive trend is clearly evident. Austria is still in the eighth highest position in the European comparison with the difference in income – the difference in income of 19.6 percent, by the way, is an uncorrected value, which Eurostat and Statistics Austria confirm. Eurostat calculates the adjusted value at 9.4 percent. Nevertheless: Every percent is one too much. What I really doubt is that the awareness of the income of all employees goes smoothly and without major conflicts in the workforce. What we certainly do not want is the creation of an industrial culture of envy, and I believe that we do not really help women. In Austria, in contrast to Germany, we have almost comprehensive collective agreements – because you have also made comparisons with Germany – and in contrast to Germany, there is a legal obligation to indicate the minimum wage in the employment rates, in the already mentioned two-yearly income reports. In addition, there is no right in Germany to disclose the remuneration of a certain colleague, only the average income of an anonymous comparison group must be mentioned. However, this is already covered by the income reports. In many chapters, there are also a number of measures in the current government programme to ensure equality between women, as has been said, not only among women and families, but also in the economic chapter. These and many other issues will have to be resolved by the Committee. In conclusion, two comments: Every single person, every individual here in the House and in front of the screens, can help to ensure that equality between men and women is lived and further anchored in society every day. It is a human right – and it would certainly be beneficial if more women were to sit in the collective treaty negotiations teams of the trade union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28644	Mrs Rosa Ecker has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28666	Dear Bureau! Ladies and gentlemen! The pay gap smiles out of the pram. In the global ranking of the Global Gender Gap Index, published in December 2019, Austria increased 19 points and is now 34th place. For example, who is among the first ten? – For example, Iceland, Norway, but also – rather unexpected – Nicaragua, Spain, Rwanda. With access to education, Austria is cutting off super, in health we are in place 82; in the wage and salary situation we are only in rank 86 worldwide, with the wage shear in place 108. On the request of the SPÖ: Income transparency, yes, why not?- Oh, my God! – Women must follow the motto: I do the same, so I also want to put the same salary as my colleague! on the feet even more. That's a good idea. The involvement of the Works Council and the Trade Union cannot be harmed, but, of course, the social partners would have been obliged to negotiate collective wages more effectively, especially in those professional sectors in which women mostly practice their profession. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In March last year, the Agenda Austria chose exactly this sentence as a title: ‘The wage difference is in the pram.’ A mother still earns about a third less ten years after the birth of a child than if she had remained childless, the Motherhoodpaygap proves. The Quintessence of this is just: Children make the difference. The better calculation of the leave period of up to 24 months, which we have decided here in the House, was a first measure, but it must follow further. I understand every woman who implements her individual life model, but I support those women who choose to work only part-time for – and not for – child rearing and caring for their families – and it has been confirmed that exactly this part-time working time is the problem that just later has a monetary impact. But let us remember one thing: If all women were to work full - time, we would need foreign care for all children and for the relatives to be cared for. Apart from these immense costs: Do we really want that? And the most important question: Do the women really want that? Let us decide for ourselves how to divide and organize their duties of care! Our aim must be to ensure that women are sufficiently protected for these care periods so that they can receive a corresponding pension later. Oh, yes, and by the way. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign]] The better ranking of Austria in the Global Gender Gap Report also achieved due to a significantly larger representation of women both in the government and in the parliament in Austria. Let us therefore see whether more women in our government are also making more and better women's policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28732	Mrs Disoski is speaking. [[Abg. Brandtötter goes to the speaker's desk.]] No, Mrs Brandstötter, you're a speaker too early. [[Abg. Discoski: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Always after me!]] Mr Discoski, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28775	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery – there are still a few! The business and professional women predicted last week on the equal pay day that the income differences between women and men amount to 15.2 percent, which is 15.2 percent too much. If women are not paid every seventh year, this is nothing but a harsh sex-related discrimination, and we cannot leave it that way. [[The speaker made a speech break, so the volume level in the hall lowers.]] – Ah, if you don’t say anything, they’ll be quiet; how beautiful! It is all the more important that we begin to take action together, which should lead to income-righteousness, because fewer wages for women and the resulting economic disadvantages are accompanied by women throughout their lives and usually lead them directly to poverty. We cannot accept this, we must not accept it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] For the elimination of gender differences, we know that we are sitting here, all, income transparency. Mr Heinisch-Hosek, you are proposing a variety of measures for discussion aimed at increasing income transparency in larger businesses, which I personally welcome. However, without prejudice to the content of the discussion we are going to have in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, the question of the legal place is raised to me. Similar provisions to those you propose and which you implemented as Minister of Women at the time, 2011, are already in the Equality Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] A parallel structure, as it would be created by a new law, we do not find ourselves targeting. Regardless of that, I would like to thank you for this initiative. I have actually heard about the equal pay day from every group here in Parliament: We have to do something! We have to do this! This is an injustice that we do not want to let go! I am positive that we will be able to put in place cross-group measures that will lead to more income transparency and thus also more wage-righteousness, and that is what is necessary, I will also be happy to advertise to the coalition partner. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28841	Mrs Brandstötter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28862	Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of a rather long plenary session, you can also look back and ask yourself the question: Where were the times when Social Democracy was still trying to change the world? There would be much to change, first and foremost, the uneven payment of women and men. This is an injustice that has many causes: Women are still doing most of the care work, missing childcare places are still burdened by women, father's care is still considered a special case, and many companies are still avoiding investing in the career of female employees because they could become pregnant. – These are just a few examples of where we have to start in order to achieve equality between men and women in working life, and if SPÖ simply demands more bureaucracy, then this idea simply doesn’t end. More bureaucracy is no longer a contribution to justice, it is a barrier to more and new jobs. Recording obligations, as you can imagine, especially contribute to increasing control arms from labour inspectorate, AUVA, SVA and finance, and then produce long lists that land as toothless paper in the drawers. Instead, we want concrete measures. This includes flexible working time models that are better adapted to the people and their needs in the company, we want new models of employee participation, because at the same time they create motivation, justice and more income transparency, we want the fair distribution of care periods and care periods between men and women, we do not want any negative tax incentives that push women only more into care and housework, and we want a massive increase in childcare opportunities and finally the legal requirement for childcare from the first year of life. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... said, gel?- Oh, my God!]] These are measures to combat injustices against women. We do not think it is more bureaucracy, complicated lists that are produced for the drawer.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28906	Last but not least is Franz Leonhard Eßlzu word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28930	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing a request concerning “a federal law with which the Income Transparency Act is created”. I should like to point out that we have actually received this request on 20 April 2018 and discussed it in detail in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on 29 May 2018, but in the end it was here in Parliament on 14 April 2018. No majority can be found in June 2018. I can say quite clearly that, as the objective of the EIA, it is obvious that equal pay is to be achieved for the same work, only the present proposal, I believe, is not well suited to achieve this objective. [[Call the SPÖ:Aha!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Moreover, some instruments are already in place, such as salary data for job losses or income reports. So I could conclude now and say that this request is not appropriate, but I would like to give a brief explanation and take two points out. First, the employee directory: What is required by the SPÖ? – To be recorded: “1. Name and date of birth, 2. Gender, 3. Training and other qualifications, 4. Use and professional status, 5. Start and type of employment, 6. Volume of weekly normal working time, 7. Times of a karenz and a reduction in normal working time, 8. any classification into a general scheme, 9. Amount of the monthly gross basic fee, special payments, any surcharges, payments and benefits, 10. Date and amount of other payments, in particular bonuses or rewards.’ So far, so good. Well, that's supposed to be recorded by the employer. Only: This information is to be provided to any other employee, and I think it will be a little tricky. This is certainly not what workers in this form want, and I do not want to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Ask the women once!]] As far as the second point, the income report, is concerned, I believe that additional income reports with high bureaucratic effort would probably not lead to an improvement in income. I am therefore excited about the discussion within the Committee, but I do not think that this legislative proposal is appropriate to improve the income situation of employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e28991	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I can assign the proposal 277/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:01:09]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e29022	I am entitled to announce that in today's session the self-employed have received applications 290/A to 395/A(E). Request within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2020-02-27-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00012_d8e29040	I would also like to say that in connection with the self-employed application 291/A for the implementation of a special Act of the Court of Auditors' conduct, concerning the areas of basic care and federal care in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, including the activities of the departmental management in this area, a request of 20 delegates within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
