ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15483	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues at the gallery! Journalists! I'll get the 49. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. [[12:00:36]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2020/2021
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15507	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 7. In August 2020, the National Council, in accordance with Art. 28 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act for the 8th. convened at its ordinary meeting in 2020/2021.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15527	I welcome you very, very cordially. I hope you had a pleasant summer and have thus thought energy. The virus is not yet defeated, as the numbers show us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] That is why we agreed in the Presidential – not unanimously – that until the Plexiglass walls on the 23rd. September will be mounted, sitting in this relaxed seat order – as before; in the roof foyer there is also a transfer available for the follow-up of the session. The sitting was suspended before the vote. The first regular meeting of the National Council after the non-conventional period, which took place on 23 March. September, will then take place in this way – we will discuss this again in the Presidency – that we can all sit in our seats. I would also like to take into account the health authorities' recommendation to preserve safety distances, to use disinfectant and to wear a mask on the courses where you cannot guarantee the safety distance. The official protocols of 45 and 46. Meeting of 8. ==References====External links== Meeting of 9. July 2020 has been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and has not been challenged. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Martin Engelberg, Franz Hörl, Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Niss, MBA, Mag. Thomas Drozda, Cornelia Ecker, Alois Schroll, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzicund Fiona Vierde, Bed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15598	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e15966	In accordance with § 74 para. Two of the Rules of Procedure asked for the self-employed amendment 809/A(E) by Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues and colleagues on 'Approximately 1 million people are unemployed or in short-time work. Austria now needs protection from the 2. Termination wave. Don’t let people down, Federal Chancellor!” to treat urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure shall be made at least 3 hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 3 p.m. I can announce that the ORF is transferring this meeting from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. Then she is transmitted in the TV library. We are going into the agenda. [[12:03:44]] Request by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, Mr President, concerning a federal law amending the Act amending the Act on COVID-19 (795/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16006	With regard to this request, a period of time for reporting to the Health Committee was allowed until 13. In July 2020, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. There is no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That is not the case either. There is a referral request. Before we enter the voting process, I ask the clubs if a part-session is wanted. - That's not the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16041	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Wöginger and Mr Maurer to refer back to the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, which is against this motion 795/A. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. I am allowed to interrupt the session until 3 p.m. – until the call for the urgent request – and I now ask, as proposed by the clubs, for a stand-präsiale right here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16096	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:01:09]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, Mr MSc, colleagues on 'Approximately 1 million people are unemployed or in short work. Austria now needs protection from the 2. Termination wave. Don’t let people down, Mr. Federal Chancellor!” (809/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16132	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 809/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16306	I would like to warmly welcome the ladies and the Lord on the government bank – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the ministers. I can give the floor as an applicant for the urgent request to Mrs Clubob, Dr Rendi-Wagner. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16330	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for today's special session is very clear and clear in a few words: The situation the labour market in Austria is growing, and the Federal Government is looking at more or less, sometimes also away, so is the impression. It is watching as more and more people are being canceled, and the list of people who have just quit in the last few weeks and days is already a very long one: There are 60 at BWT, 100 at Magna Powertrain, 180 at Andritz, 1 600 at Swarovski in Tirol, 70 at Huber, 360 at ATB in Styria, 550 at the Voestalpine, 150 at Agrana in Lower Austria – and I could continue this list. It is sad that this list is already so long, ladies and gentlemen! These are the daily announcements of redundancies that all of us have reached through the media in recent weeks. Just a few days ago, before the weekend, on Friday, another report came from MAN in Steyr in Upper Austria. There are up to 2 500 jobs; 2 500 people, ladies and gentlemen who are at risk of termination! This list, all these cases – ATB, Agrana, Voestalpine – show: There are no more individual cases. No, it is rather true that over the past few weeks and months, entire companies have been in a state of disrepute that flagships are threatening to break away from the Austrian industry. This also threatens to impoverish entire regions, and this must also be taken into account when hearing these figures. If you see this list that gets longer every day, you can see one: These are presupposes, ladies and gentlemen, presupposes of a pleite wave that will roll to Austria in the next few weeks. It is not we who claim that these are labour market experts in Austria, who only point to a record unemployment of 500 000 unemployed for the coming winter, to half a million people without a job. – These are very dramatic figures, because there are people behind all these figures, Mr. Federal Chancellor. There are families with children, many young people, very, very many women, many single teachers behind them. There are also older people behind it, who are just before retirement. And I'll tell you: Getting unemployed does something with those concerned: It changes their lives, it changes their future, it changes their chances. Yeah, all those concerned are worried, they're afraid. They are afraid of their future, they are afraid to be evicted, they are afraid to be hanged, they are afraid to be abandoned. 2 hours ago, outside the Parliament, there was a rally of ATB-announced bullers, and some of them told me that currently four generations of a family are working in this farm and all at one time, from one day to the other, have lost their jobs, entire generations of families. And women told me – there were a lot of women in it – that they were standing shortly before their retirement and that they had been cancelled from one day to the next. All these people are wondering: How's it going now? How's the payment of my rent going? Can I take care of my children as I have always seen it as my responsibility as a mother and father? Can I still pay the electricity bill next month? – These are questions these people ask themselves. If you had been there, Federal Chancellor, you could have talked to these people personally; but unfortunately, you were not. We here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, must ask ourselves how we support these people, how we do everything we can to avoid letting them down, not to abandon them, not to abandon them. [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ.]] We need to take care of the young people who are not now finding a job that will probably find no place to enter their profession even in the autumn; this is a gap at the very beginning of their career, which these people, if we don't do anything about it, have to drag their lives like a backpack. However, it is also older people, older people who have been struggling for months and perhaps for years to find a job and who now have less opportunities to find a job. There are thousands of women, ladies and gentlemen, who are among the great losers of the Corona crisis and who we must support. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Maurer.]] There are also well-trained men and women who have never been in such a situation that would not even have dreamed of it in their nightmares hit by this news like a lightning. – All these are people, Mr. Chancellor, people who have to mean something to us that concerns us, people for whom we have to work, people we have to respect! Mr Bundeskanzler, I have heard today from the ATB Works Council – he has told me – that he has been trying to get a meeting with you for six weeks, asked for it three times and received only negative answers – and I feel that this is disrespectful. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This does not show respect for me to deal with these affected people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We shouldn't care about these people. You mustn't care about us because it's human beings a command of the hour, but do you know why they can't care about us yet? – Because as a society, as a country all these people need. They are part of the future of our country and therefore we should also work for them. We must not afford to abandon and abandon these people, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] We're not just talking about anonymous numbers, diagrams, curves or statistics here. No, if we look at the current statistics of unemployment, Mrs Minister, then we see that there are now almost 40 000 young people without work, and I am sure you know this number. In a picture – painted or summarized – this means: 1 300 buses full of young people, Austrian youths! 1 300 buses, and they carry a thick and bright inscription, which means: Lost Generation – Lost Generation! This is a lost generation because the young people themselves lose a perspective if we do not support it – but I say: We are all the greater losers as a society if we allow these young people to have no proper professional entry. That's not responsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one hears these figures and this development of the increasing terminations and the pending pleas and terminations, then one would assume that you are in the Federal Government day and day. Night work – I hope you do it or at least in the future – will do nothing more than deal with how you fight unemployment in Austria, how you create employment and jobs – for young, old, for women and families! But the question is: Are you doing that, too? In June, almost four months ago, you, Federal Chancellor, announced a so-called labour market foundation. I can't remember that besides a headline, much more is known. There are press conferences, there are good headlines, packaging and many empty promises so far, but all this does not bring anyone A single unemployed person is a job. All these PKs do not create any additional jobs, do not protect against termination – yes, but so far we have not heard any more. So far, we have not heard anything about additional measures which should encourage job seekers in re-training and further qualification more than before. Everything is obvious here: We have a care emergency that comes upon us; over 70,000 caregivers will miss us in the next few years. It would be only right and good to offer the people who are unemployed now that they are re-trained, requalified – yes, but there is a need for support, including financial support in the form of a training bonus from which you can live, in addition to unemployment benefit. It is at least 500 euros, Mrs Minister, who would need these people in addition to unemployment support in order to be able to survive financially with her families. We need to roll these people out of the red carpet. Yes, to this day there is no plan to finally close the huge teaching gap that threatens to come to Austria in the autumn. According to experts, up to 10,000 apprenticeships are threatened to be missing, 10,000 apprenticeships, 10,000 young people who are unable to start training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner]] And if you think about it a little bit, that means: 10,000 skilled workers, who will be missing in a few years of business and business – in the event of a already existing shortage of skilled workers. That's why you should finally become active, dear Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To date, there is also no plan from you, which should come after the short work, which will end in a few months, which will come after that, in order to continue to secure the jobs in order to create prospective new jobs. Yes, I do not see a plan here, nor do I see any courage, no courage to discuss new, modern ideas, such as a voluntary, promoted four-day week, taking up proposals that extend beyond the edge of the plate. This courage, I do not see this far-sighted vision with you to this day. To date, there is also no large, effective economic and economic package that strengthens the economy and creates jobs. To date, there is no major effective tax reduction for workers in order to boost consumption in a sustainable and effective way. The question is very slow, not just with us, whether the Federal Government really recognized the seriousness of the situation: six months no plan, six months no effective measures – just one problem: Unemployment cannot be managed. Unemployment must be actively combated, much-honoured federal government! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bitch.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Politics means: It means acting, doing, doing. It's not just talking. It means acting, doing, doing. Politics is responsible, and responsibility not for itself, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but for the future of our country and for the people of Austria. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you are not so important to the people who are unemployed or could perhaps become unemployed, then you are acting on your own interest, because there is nothing worse than rising unemployment for a country and a government. One thing you can be sure of: that social democracy will not simply be seen here, just as we do not today, as the economy, like the people who work at work, will not see, as poverty in a row increases and threatens to rise in Austria. We will not look at that, much-honoured Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I would like to ask you very specifically, and I hope that you will also answer my questions in concrete terms. I ask you: Mr Bundeskanzler, what are you doing to prevent the negative recordwinter with 500 000 unemployed in Austria? How do you make sure that every youth also finds an apprenticeship if he is looking for an apprenticeship? Why do you block a permanent increase in unemployment benefit? Why do you refuse the development of short work in the form of a funded, voluntary four-day week that could secure hundreds of thousands of jobs? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] Why Refuse Are you aware of the heroes of everyday life, including very, very many women who have done significant things in the Corona crisis, as financial recognition of the corona thousands, Mr. Bundeskanzler? I hope you will answer these questions in concrete terms, and I am excited whether and how you will answer these questions. I am also sure that 422,000 unemployed people would like to know exactly why unemployment benefit has not been increased permanently and only once, why you have made it alms recipients instead. Yes, an increase in unemployment benefit by around 300 euros per month for all concerned would have been a real and important step. Why? – Because, due to your inactionlessness, unemployment is just getting stronger, i.e. the duration of unemployment is getting longer and longer, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to find a job. It would therefore be an important step in real implementing this important increase in unemployment benefit. The real chuzpe, however, is that half of the unemployed do not even receive their alms, see no cent of it – half of the current unemployed! It is completely incomprehensible and unfair why this is so, for even those people who were unemployed for 60 days at this time go out empty – do you know when? – if they were sick at that time. If they were sick, they will not receive this promised one-off payment. It seems that for this Federal Government, the unemployed people seem to be second-class people. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, eyes closed and through is not crisis management. In a crisis, it takes determined action, action for our future, action for all people in our country, especially for those who have the hardest problems, who already have the most difficult to find a job. It was a well-known Austrian journalist who wrote very aptly yesterday in a daily newspaper – I quote –: “There will be, accelerated by Corona, permanent losers on the labour market, worthy of cohesion and consideration” – cohesion and respect for all of us as society. And I'm glad to say this: The respect of all of us deserves, respect of all of us and full commitment of you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and your government team! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Every group in this Parliament has made sensible proposals in recent months. Finally jump over your shadow, pick up these suggestions and become active! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16539	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16566	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Members on the Government Bank! I should like to thank you very much for the emphasis on today's day, for the invitation here to Parliament, because the topic of work is one of the central topics for us in Austria – and especially in times of the pandemic, especially in times of the world economic crisis, the subject that has absolute priority for us as the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] The Corona pandemic is a health-political challenge for our country, but of course it is also the trigger of the largest world economic crisis for a long time and leads to a massive challenge on the international labour market, but also, of course, in Austria. I think we can all be grateful for the fact that we have so far come through this pandemic that this has worked better in spring than in other countries, that it has succeeded in keeping the levels of infection at a low level in summer, that Austrian tourism has worked relatively well and also safely – and it is important to know: It will go up again, there will be light at the end of the tunnel. Thanks to the progress made in the field of research, in the fight against pandemic by a vaccine, but also through a safe drug, we will be able to enjoy normality again next summer. [[Abg. Kickl:... Mr Health Minister!]] Until then, ladies and gentlemen, and this truth is also true to say, it will be a very challenging autumn and a very challenging winter. We experience that social life relocates more strongly into the interiors, that the risk of infection increases, that education begins in schools, and that the flu season begins. All of this leads to an increase in the number of infections in Austria, from an average of 350 people per day two weeks ago to an approximately twice as high level today. The most important approach we all have to take together is to do everything we can to keep the levels of infection low – not only for health reasons, but because high levels of infection also lead to a deterioration in the economic situation. High levels of infection lead to travel warnings in neighbouring countries, which in turn result in tourists not coming to us, and this in turn not only harms tourism, but also gastronomy and trade. In this sense, health and economics are no contradiction. We are all called on to be active here, we are all called on to be careful about the measures put in place by the Federal Government in Austria, but I can also ask everyone to act on their own responsibility, to participate in the best possible way, so that we can keep the levels of infection in the hemisphere and thus maintain a good starting position for the economy and the labour market. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] The world economic crisis is dramatic, it leads to an economic breakdown in all parts of the world, it leads to an economic collapse in the European Union, and even if it is lower in us than in other countries, a 7 percent fall for the economy is dramatic and leads to a massive rise in unemployment. We currently have around 410 000 unemployed, which is about 80 000 more than before the crisis. This is a strong rise, and it is because of the situation that we are just at the beginning of the second wave that we are also firmly assuming that the unemployment rate will continue to rise over the autumn and winter. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that we have done everything we can to best address the global economic crisis and the impact on the location and employment. I would like to thank the social partners with whom we shared a broad package at the beginning of the year when the pandemic started, in order to avoid unemployment in the best possible way, in particular through short-term work. It has temporarily been well over a million people in short-time work – now there are about 400 000 – and the short-term work has turned out to be the most effective element to combat a massive increase in unemployment. Thank you very much to all those who have worked here, especially the social partners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In addition, we have set three priorities which appear to be essential to us. The first one is: What is to be done if the economy breaks down? – It is important to support and support businesses as best as possible. We have tied up a 50-billion-euro package, of which about half of the money has so far been called up to support companies with short work, the hardening fund, a fixed-cost grant and other measures in this difficult phase. Around half of the money is collected, which means: There are still around EUR 25 billion for the second half of the year, for the further course of this crisis. The second point: Of course, it takes training, re-training and mediation to all those who have lost their job, because we have the situation that unemployment on the one hand is rising massively, but on the other hand, there are still open jobs in Austria. There is a need for labour in particular in the areas of care, health professions, digitisation and other industries, and now it is the crucial task of enabling many people to quickly re-train and transfer to these sectors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am grateful to the ministers responsible for the fact that over the summer a hard work has been done on creating a coronary work foundation designed to qualify up to 100 000 people to teach them in areas of digitization, ecologisation and health professions, precisely in areas where there are still open jobs. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided to increase the AMS with 350 additional employees in order to be able to organise, as far as possible, the placement of the unemployed at a time when unemployment is increasing. In addition, we have launched a youth employment task force which has already been able to provide 22,000 young people, as well as an apprenticeship bonus to up to 3 000 euros, because you are absolutely right, Mrs Klubobfrau: It is absolutely crucial that young people can also be transferred to the labour market at a time when unemployment is rising – therefore a warm thanks to Margarete Schramböck, but also to the coalition partner, for the idea of the apprentice bonus! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The third point, in addition to support for enterprises, in addition to labour market measures in the field of mediation and training, is the following: Of course, it is necessary to strengthen the location. Especially at a time when many businesses are in trouble, especially at a time when there are insolvency and unemployment is increasing, it is crucial to put in place local policy measures that attract Austria's economic location. We do this by preferring all the measures in the government programme in this area, from deregulation to capital market packages to a founding package. The most likely decisive step is taking place right now – many Austrians now feel this in September –: An attractive location also means reducing the tax burden. I am very glad that, as a government, we have been able to prefer the tax reform, which now, this year, has been able to relieve small incomes of up to 350 euros per person tax relief, 360 euros in addition per child and also a one-time payment of 450 euros for unemployed people. These are all justified measures, because the people who work, but also those who are unemployed, have earned our support, because a tax reduction has long been excessive, but they are also site strengthening measures, because much of this money will flow into consumption, especially in the case of small and medium-sized incomes, thus contributing a lot to meeting this international trend of the great economic crisis in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, autumn and winter will be a challenging time for us. It's little comfort to know at the moment that we'll probably achieve economic growth of a few percent next year – this is of little help to us at the moment, of course, emotionally. It will be a challenging time on the health front and it will also be a challenging time in terms of location and employment. It is important from my point of view to understand that there is no economy or health. The better we have the pandemic under control, the lower the infection rates, the stronger people will consume, the better tourism will run, the more people in Austria will help gastronomy, tourism and trade to business. In this sense, I would like to thank the Federal Government as a whole, especially the Vice-Chancellor for the good cooperation. It's not a simple time for our country, it's not a simple time for Europe, it's not an international time, but I'm glad that we're all working together and doing everything we can to best address the impact on our country in this challenging phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16660	We are going into the debate and the debate contribution must not be longer than 10 minutes. Mr Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). You know the procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16685	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm robust, I'm doing a lot of things, everybody who knows me knows I'm not easy to get out of peace, but: Mr Bundeskanzler, what you have put forward here today makes me speechless, it makes me a little unscrupulous when you think and say here: We got through the crisis so well. – Yes, Federal Chancellor, in which country do you live? Don't you see what's happening around us? - The companies clear the buds out of us. There are unemployed people like never before – you watch, and in summer there was not a single program that could counter this, ladies and gentlemen. I think you do not believe all that you have said today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You have no idea at all how people are losing their existence, you have no idea how people are losing their jobs, and that probably has a very practical reason: [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stefan]] You haven't worked one hour in a farm all your life, Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[We welcome the SPÖ and Mr Loacker and Mr Zanger.]] [[Abg. Straster: This is a level!]] The workers are yours and you don't care about the unemployed. But we have always pointed out and warned you: Autumn will be dramatic. We see that a lot of colleagues are not being taken away even now before the short work phase three. Unemployment will increase dramatically. We had the opportunity today to welcome a delegation of ATB here at Josefsplatz, and I have had to smile a little, because a lot of Members of the Group of the European People's Party have also entered this entrance, where this group has stood, and a few of them have been looking, a few are almost kneeling in, so that they would not have to look at the people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you something. You're not going to let people down and they'll never forgive you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 360 people are likely to be affected. It is an ice-cold closure, it is planned to move to Poland and Serbia. And what people don't understand at all, ladies and gentlemen, There would be an investor from Germany who would have helped with a site guarantee and would have assured people their jobs for at least five years. This was not possible because the representative of the state, namely the financial procuratorship, at this creditor's meeting voted rather for the owners, i.e. the Chinese, and against the workers. [[Call the SPÖ: A shame...!]] It has already been mentioned by our chairmen today: Mr. Bundeskanzler, works councillor Michi Leitner asked you to have a conversation – to have a conversation for 10 minutes – because you can't imagine what's going on there. You have refused this conversation to this day – and this is not responsible, ladies and gentlemen. That's where you let these people down! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something more – you can't even imagine what's going on there –: People are presented – they already have the notice of termination – and they are asked to the company at 6 a.m. in the morning and evicted like animals: You can stay here, I need you today, you go home. This is an inhumane state, ladies and gentlemen, and we must stop that from happening! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because we got through the crisis as well as you meant: MAN Steyr: We lay the “basic stone for” a “sustainable business success”, the management has announced, and it closes Steyr and throws out 2 300 employees. Ladies and gentlemen, this is cynical. What's actually going on here is cynical! Mr Bundeskanzler, you could have been a listener for a long time, you should also talk to the management there once Tacheles, what is happening there, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because the workers would expect you to talk to the management and try to clean up and avert this situation. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP]] Swarovski has also been mentioned today. Ladies and gentlemen, 25 million euros have received Swarovski for short-term work, for phase two it will be so much again. Now they throw out 1,800 people, make a social plan, and probably deserve to do so because the social plan is less than the subsidies for short work. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, the managers are knocking on the thighs and actually have a Gaudi. Mr Bundeskanzler, you would also have to intervene with a little bit more research and talk to the ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleague August Wöginger, I'm really excited about what you've got to say to us when Agra closes the site. [[Call at the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] Your friends of Raiffeisen have decided to close Leopoldsdorf – and don't come to me now that the sugar beet is to blame. This is a classic profit maximation agrana is seeking, and it leaves the people there in the lurch. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you one more thing: But that has nothing to do with Corona, it's about maximizing profits, just like it now looks. Another word on symbol policy, which is becoming quite slowly very strenuous, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Semperit Wimpassing produces gloves – rubber gloves for more safety – and they wanted to say good-bye in the long term because they said they don't come back and front together anymore. There was then contact with the government that said: Stay here and continue to produce, we will buy from you! We've seen: Nothing happened, no glove has been bought! Ladies and gentlemen, this is symbolic policy. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Next History: Lenzing/Palmers, company founded, there was a press conference, you were in the picture, the head of state was in the picture, the woman minister was in the picture. Today we see: There would be a capacity of twelve million masks, none of which was purchased by this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand how to sell air locks media-effectively. Of course, reality looks quite different: In reality, it is air and trust – and this is black and turquoise politics, ladies and gentlemen very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16801	Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. The speaking time also applies to him: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16822	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am not aware of the fact that I am trying to get my speaking time in Parliament on the scale or to speak too often. [[Abg. Belakovich: No!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's right, yes!]] In this case, however, it is my concern to make two more brief comments. The first point is: Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, what do you think we are working on? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Tell us!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] What do you think we're in constant contact with? – The companies mentioned by you and many others are companies with whom we are in constant contact, in order to do as best as possible to ensure that no employees are dismantled, that we find solutions with the short work and other tools, that it does not come to it or, if there is no other way, that as few jobs are deleted as possible. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Once these are deleted, it is our first concern as the Federal Government to pass on these people and bring them to other businesses. This is our main activity at the moment – the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Economic Affairs, many other members of the government – and it is that which is by far the most demanding of me at the moment. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] The second point: Mr President, you can say a lot, and I am doing a lot of things. You can say that I have never worked anything in my life and whatever you want, but one thing is important to me – if I may have your attention, honourable Member – one thing is important to me, because it gives me a lot of emotionalism: [[Delegates Hammerschmid, Holzleitner, Krainer, Kucharovich and Nussbaum are detaching a red transparency on the gallery with the title “Rauf mit dem Unsergeldgeld, Herr Kurz!”]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (on the transparent point) Read it!]] I had a beautiful childhood and youth. [[call to the FPÖ.]] There was a single phase that was a huge challenge not only for me but for my whole family, and that was when my father lost his job for over 50 years and for months at the same company for about 30 years, without ever getting into debt! – the concern never to be able to be transferred to the labour market at this age. That was one of the most influential phases in my youth, and if I know one very well, then it is that I am grateful for every family in Austria that we can save such a phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16941	You can roll this thing back in, we've seen it. Mr Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e16968	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to clarify a few figures of the urgent request. It is true that we should deal with numbers that are also somewhat in line with reality. [[Inter-calls at SPÖ and intermediate call of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] - Well, it won't be better if you scream first. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] “Approximately 1 million people are unemployed or in short-time work.”: We now have far too many people who are affected by unemployment or short-term work, yes, but we have the right to stand last week – Mrs. Federal Minister Aschbacher, together with Mrs. Federal Minister Schramböck, presents the current figures every week – 409 231 people in unemployment or in training and 399 730 people in short-time work. If you count that together – Professor Taschner gives reassurance – the result is 808 961. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's still too many, but if you write "about 1 million" – and there's a difference of about 190 000 people – then that's unscrupulous, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Unfortunately, this is the result of the request: In the third paragraph, 1.9 million people are spoken of in the quarter of April to June – it has been 1.4 million. And then there is a decline of more than 44 000 in the open spaces – it has been 24 135. I simply ask – and that this issue is important is not a question – to use at least the numbers reported by the AMS and confirmed by the Federal Government and also by the experts, for otherwise we are talking about different circumstances here. And we have no reason, ladies and gentlemen, to present the situation even worse than it is already. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichtfried and Mr Vogl.]] The second thing I would like to say here is that for months now – and I mean the Federal Government and our government groups here in Parliament – we have been doing everything we can to combat this global pandemic and, on the other hand, the subsequent economic crisis. In fact, we do almost nothing more than oppose it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] It is a bit too simple to say now that the whole perspective for the autumn is missing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a short-term work model that seeks to be the same, and I do not understand why there is no line in this, namely that this model is a success model, developed with the social partners. More than 1.3 million people have been paid in the highest phase of Corona pay from 80 to 90 percent, and we have saved the entrepreneurs from the pleite. This is the model with which now more than 4.6 billion euros have been paid! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The following is: We have now given 700 million euros to a work foundation, because the key will be qualification, qualification, qualification. This is not entirely new, but it is very important in this situation. Mrs Rendi-Wagner, yes, Mr Anschober and I are in the process of setting up the care reform. There will also be a topic to think about placement foundations, how to re-train and bring into these professions employees who currently have no chance of getting a job. – We do that, we discuss it, and we also bring the solutions to the table. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] But don't go here and say we're inactive and don't do anything! AMS CEO Johannes Kopf – I am glad that he is back in his board business now – said quite clearly yesterday in the “Kurier” interview that it will be a challenge to invest 700 million euros in qualification. – That's what it's all about now! That is why I invite you to participate in these projects that we are currently setting up. This will help people at the end of the day. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] And because here's what we're pretending we didn't help anyone. We've launched billions of packages. In the last few days, these amounts have been transferred to families and workers: 360 Euro Children's bonus, 450 euros for people who have been unemployed, and tax relief, retroactively with 1. January 2020 has already been implemented – most taxpayers have already received these amounts, and it will be up to 350 euros throughout the year. And here you go and say, Nothing happens, no one gets anything!Unknown term type: "%s".? We get news, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ, where people ask and say: I've now gotten 1,000 euros transferred, I don't know where the money comes from, what's that? - But you're happy about it. They need it because it ultimately also strengthens purchasing power, and that is what we want, because otherwise the economic cycle in that Republic does not work. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] If you're asking the Corona Thousands, you're expecting: 450 euros – unemployed people, who of course also benefit from our solidarity, receive this – and two children, as you are at more than 1 000 euros, 1 170 euros. Or with a married couple, where husband and wife each earn 2,000 euros gross and who has two children: There we are at EUR 1 420 when we count the amounts from these measures together. That's help coming, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] These are support that people need in this difficult situation, and this federal government also gives them. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Some concepts you have mentioned that you have not even explained in your urgent request, such as the famous four-day week. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Well, we do!]] We stand on the four-day week, and it is also possible. It may be agreed with the employees at any time in the holding. But on what you propose here, namely a reduction in working time in accordance with the four-day week, you should convene your party presidency and invite Mr Doskozil, Mr Androsch and Mr Hanke to speak urgently. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, exactly!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] They go here and say the following – I quote Androsch, who has been the SPÖ's Minister of Finance for many years: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] “When I hear that a four-day week increases productivity – how should it be done with a caregiver or a surgeon?” – Mr. Hanke says: “I think there are other priorities that are first and foremost at the moment.” – So make yourself up in your own party, so that you can even know with what specific proposal you are going out of here! [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Together in the coalition, we want to put a few points on the way to extending the special care period – this will be an important issue for parents, for families, especially what is going on in autumn – the increase of the Family Hard Fund from 60 million to 100 million euros and the introduction of the education bonus of 180 euros. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, you don't want that together!]] There are other measures that will be necessary, and we are working day and night to get under the arms of people, workers, as well as entrepreneurs. Participate in this process, we cordially invite you to do so! Autumn becomes challenging enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We are at the beginning of a second wave of this global pandemic, taking into account, of course, the economic consequences. Help us so that we can make a red and white-red policy in the sense of the people in Austria together! The health of human beings is the highest command, which also has to be represented by politics. We will help all those people who need this help and who have come into a difficult situation as a result of this crisis. We are elected to do so, and we will do so together.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17162	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17183	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Government! High house! Well, Mrs. Klubobmann Rendi-Wagner, so I fear that the appeal you have made to the Federal Chancellor will once again come upon deaf ears. [[Cheerfulness and call to the Greens:-wife!]] That's nothing new. I think it's a hopeless attempt to appeal to him with the urgent words, but he can't let people down. Have you heard any word of self-criticism now? Has She's heard somewhere you could've done better in the past few months? – I have not heard a word of it in this speech, except a lot of self- praise from Klubobmann Wöginger, who pretends to have everything gone perfectly. – Mr Wöginger, it is not the amount, it is the quality, and you should write it behind your turquoise ears! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is so – we all have something in common – that man learns only from experience. We have really not missed experience, and we have made enough of it in these last months of so-called corona management. What do these experiences tell us and what do we learn from them? Let's think together, Mrs. Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner! Who was it, then, who locked the door of their own company overnight to the entrepreneurs and prevented workers from returning to their jobs the next day and going to work there? Who, then, has made sure that the epidemic law is repealed, so that there is no right to compensation? Who has replaced the necessary safety and planning since then with chaos and uncertainty? Who was that? – That was German Chancellor Kurz, that teaches us the experience, Chancellor Kurz, the inventor of the new normality in which he seems to feel puddle well-being! The most recent example of this chaos is the Coronamepel – Clubobfrau Maurer wears the colors in the face – the Coronamepel, the youngest rebirth of the crisis management of this government. [[Abg. Maurer wears a mask in rainbow colours]] [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] Lotto used to be, today is Coronamepel, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Commission is concerned about the classification of the individual regions on the basis of a bazaar in Anatolia. [[Call the SPÖ:Na, na!]] If you have the better influence, you get the better classification. – This is the opposite of efficient management! Yes, and who was it who organized the help so that the little ones looked through their fingers, but the great ones who, of course, have a good wire – a turquoise wire of course – to those who have something to talk about in this crisis management are naturally being used? Who is that who has made sure that Parliament has no control over the billions of aid packages? Who was that? – This was also our Federal Chancellor Kurz, the collector and Schredderer of millions of donations from large companies, industry and billionaires. Last but not least: Who, then, was the one who has shown the Corona unemployed the cold shoulder most of the time, because he is still refusing an efficient increase in unemployment money, but then goes overnight and loosens millions of people when some crazy asylum seekers in Greece light up their own refugee camps? Then go here and say: I don't let myself be extorted!, is a smooth lie because you're indirectly being blackmailed, because the increase of this fund has of course only the purpose of giving these people a roof over the head that has torched their own. This too is an dishonest policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – This too was Federal Chancellor Kurz, in this case the one who displays a self-willed interpretation of charity. I'm telling you, you have to be quite pessimistic when you let all this happen. This is a single Im-Stich-Lassen of the Austrian population – a single Im-Stich-Lassen. Now I'm at Social Democracy: You've been let go of it, too. They were with you every now and then; You cannot quite decide where you belong: in the morning government course, in the afternoon a biterl opposition. I still have in mind the pictures on which the President of the Trade Union, who is listening to your ranks, then in sad trinity with Mr. Mahrer and with Mr. Federal Chancellor in the Swiss House drink a beer, as a sign that we have a great deal in hand with the crisis. That's what I call it. You are not quite honest with social democracy, either, if you now criticize the conditions at ATB. Please tell me that important comrades are sitting on the Supervisory Board of this Chinese group, which is now putting 360 people in front of the chair. Mr. Wimmer, you have forgotten in your flowering descriptions that Mr. Matznetter and also former Member Peter Wittmann are sitting on the Supervisory Board of this Chinese group. [[Oh-Rufe, Deputies of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] What about social democracy? Why do you drop that under the table? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps Mrs Klubobfrau believes something else. It is quite possible that she believes that German chancellors will achieve something similar to this 2015/2016 turnaround in these days. You remember, it happened over the night: It really happened overnight that the former best Islam understandingr of the Republic, that the integration novelist and the immigration beauty speaker Sebastian Just after his own interpretation, exactly changed overnight to the opposite. That was this miracle from 2015/2016. This has gone so far as to forget – similar to the U Committee, where he has forgotten a lot – his own political past. He can no longer remember that he has incubated parts of this soup, which today provides us with a fundamentally difficult position on the Austrian labour market, the key to displacement competition. The truth was another: You have realized that the pressure of the Freedom Party and the people will be so great that you have to write down what you once laughed about. That's the truth. Since then, it is our task – whether in opposition or in government – to ensure that you do not fall back in the opposite direction, because the danger is high-grade. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe you think that's what's happening with Corona. I mean, it would not be bad, Federal Chancellor, if you were to take over liberal positions, it would actually be good for the Austrian people. I'll make two proposals. The first would be: In view of the 800 000 people – more than 800 000 – who have over 800 000 people in unemployment and short-time work, close the Austrian borders for workers from third countries and from countries of the European Union in those areas where we do not have work for the Austrians themselves! Yes, if not now, should such a measure be implemented? I would be delighted to see what the Social Democracy says about this. Our position is clear, and to formulate it in your language, Federal Chancellor: Close the boundaries for the workplace hazard! That would be something to do now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A second proposal: Increase unemployment benefit for those who have become unemployed by Corona! And in return – because you say that we can't afford everything –: Go down to zero with the social benefits for the far too many integrities of integration, for those who refuse to work, although they have a genuine residence permit here, for asylum fraud and for those who now have asylum status and believe that the minimum social security is part of it! Go down to zero! Tell the people at risk of the social state to fight, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Then we'll go a little further together. But you will not do that, and this shows me that even on issues of restrictive immigration and asylum policy, we are not eaten as hot as cooked in you. And I'm not talking about Corona. It's not a talk about us having light at the end of the tunnel next year. Don't read what Wifo and IHS experts say? They say: No normality in 2021! The thick end is more likely to come when the short-term work phase expires and when companies are suddenly asked to cash out twice and triple at the end of all these hours. This is the truth – and that, in which you have brought us in, is not a tunnel, at the other end of which a light shines somewhere, but it is a dead end, which is a huge, tight, oppressive black hole into which you have led this country, and it is high time to turn around. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing – and there I am with you and with Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner alike –: We will not be able to prevent this super-GAU, as far as unemployment and corporate pleas are concerned, if we continue to pursue this course, which you have so far taken – and you have been part of it – the course of fear, uncertainty, chaos and, as far as your legislation is concerned, the absolute inability. [[pointing towards SPÖ]] We need a normal access to things! Yes to hygiene, to distance, to personal responsibility, but a no to this permanent alarm - -
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17307	If you'd write the final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17323	- and to this permanent state of emergency! The opposite is what you are doing, Federal Chancellor: They call out the second wave and test it themselves. At the end of the day, I would like to see a balancing justice for the 800 000 people – and it will be more – who are now suffering, one thing: that in the end you will lose your job, namely, as the head of government.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17353	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17374	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies on the Minister's bench! Corona, that was a stress test for all of us and for the entire political and social system. The institutions were called upon to limit their load capacity. No matter what is being done and done, improvements have always been necessary, whether in the case of the hardening fund or in the case of short-time work. This must not be surprising either because this crisis is a unique crisis, a crisis in which there has been no experience, a crisis that has constantly challenged and challenges us. This corona crisis at the same time also shows that many things that are actually well meant and also regularly demanded are simply not so easy to do. If one really makes the effort to talk to the respective institutions, then one can only get a more accurate picture of what is manageable and feasible at all in a limited period of time. It's not that easy. Which is also clear: The labour market crisis is far from over. In fact, the opposite is to be feared – but for a long time not only because of Corona, because we must not give in to the illusion that everything would have been all right before Corona. In fact, a battery economic crisis has already occurred in the autumn of 2019. The economic situation in Germany has slowed dramatically, and especially in the automotive industry this crisis has become extremely visible; a crisis whose cause, among other things, is that the conversion of our economic system towards an ecologically sustainable, climate-friendly, climate-friendly economy has not taken place at all, or has not taken place at all, and that too long has been set on the basis of technologies and industries based on oil, coal and gas. Unfortunately, these failures over the last decades have been tragic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are thousands of employees in industries and in sectors that now have to be afraid of jobs, incomes and prospects. In order to overcome the corona crisis, the climate crisis and the economic crisis together with this record unemployment, it really needs a power act. It must be borne in mind that the consequences of the financial crisis have not been overcome. I would like to remind you that in 2015 we had 9.1 percent unemployed; in 2020, 9.7 percent are expected to be unemployed – only to have a comparison. Considering that this high level of unemployment, this high long-term unemployment has not been overcome as a result of the economic crisis and that this base has been taken away, we only know how extremely intense it is with what extreme effort and also how extremely financially this rescue must be done. What is certainly not possible under this government is that it does not face up to the challenge of this power act and does not try to do so, because 700 million euros in a work foundation, which will flow in the coming years in education and training, in vocational reorientation, in qualification, in future jobs in the field of climate protection, in the field of care and social services, in the field of digitalization, and that for hundreds of thousands of people, are a unique investment, as it has never been – in no crisis, even in the so far most severe post-war economic crisis in 2008! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A special focus is placed on the situation of women. Yesterday, too, AMS chief has made it clear once again that women in technology will become a massive programme that will be heavily invested and, at the same time, in a new form of social security by receiving an educational bonus of 180 euros, instead of 60 euros, to those who attend these courses in the longer term. Also something that has not yet been done! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we are also developing measures for those unemployed who are particularly difficult in the labour market – long-term unemployed, older unemployed, people with, as it is so terrible, health barriers, several barriers to mediation – by strengthening socio-economic projects in the field of circular economy, which work directly on the regional, social and environmental sustainability on the ground. We are working together with the social partners, together with the social partners – tomorrow there is also a social partners' conference, a government summit with trade unions and employers' associations – and the short work as an instrument of crisis that has proved to be good, and we are pleased that the solidarity premium model, i.e. the internal voluntary distribution of work, of working time, should be more attractive. And that there are 500 additional jobs in the AMS – the 150 that are not being dismantled, plus the 350 – is something that has been required – I know – what has been decided and, fortunately, finally comes, and I also find this highly necessary and highly timely. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: This has long called for the opposition!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: This has long called for the opposition!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... long needed!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Because it is precisely the social democracy that is being said over and over again, the reduction of working time must be a topic: Yes, a 100% reduction in working time must be a subject – we are different from the ÖVP, as the government partner – and that is why we say: Let us start where we have the political majority and where a reduction in working time is indeed possible! There are supposed to be two government parties in Vienna who have the absolute majority there, who are supposed to be – by one I know for sure – for reduction of working time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have the opportunity to work in the area of the parish staff, exactly in the group where the child caregivers, where the old caregivers, where the nurses work, where the people work, the bim, the subway, exactly there, to relieve those who were particularly burdened during the period of the corona crisis – over shorter working hours and better working conditions. [[Abg. Loacker: Exactly in the protected area!]] [[Abg. Loacker: And pay it those who work in real life!]] [[Abg. Loacker:... who have safe jobs!]] If we do it as in the past, let us be Vienna a social model, we will shorten the working time where we can, we will do it there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The total expenditure on labour market policies, from short-time work to the increase in unemployment benefit and the creation of work, amounts to several billions; billions, which are well and properly invested in the face of the crisis, billions that have long had to be invested, already in 2008, because even then we already knew, we have a structural problem in industry, in the economy, even then we knew that with green investments we can come out of deep red figures, from a black industry, a black, climate-toxic industry. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ]] Unfortunately, it was too little at that time. If climate investment packages had been chained at the time, we would then have been invested in the ecological conversion of our economic system, we would probably have saved ourselves a lot today. Unfortunately, this opportunity has been rejected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we also know that, if the situation gets worse, the agreed packages will probably not be enough, but we will strive for those people who are currently experiencing unemployment and in perspectivelessness due to the dramatic situation, that we are combating this inability to work and perspective and that we are making the transition to a socially and ecologically sustainable economy as socially as possible for the workers concerned. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Saxinger.]] This will be anything but easy, because both the failure of the past and the corona crisis do not make the challenge easy, but there are these perspectives. There are these prospects for jobs, for income, for the future in the areas of green technologies, for climate protection, in the fields of digitalisation, in the social and care sectors. There will be tens of thousands of jobs in the next few years. We need a further increase in unemployment benefit for the duration of the Coronan measures, the Corona crisis – and Mr. Vice-Chancellor Kogler stressed this again on the weekend – so that the social crisis does not worsen, and we continue to stand for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is a task for politics, and above all it is also a mission to us Greens, and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17545	Mrs Klubobfrau Beate Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17567	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! These are very demanding and difficult times that will undoubtedly accompany us much longer, even much longer than the infections, the virus and the pandemic will do immediately. I do not agree with many of the proposals that have come from social democracy today. Mr Koza, I do not agree, however, with regard to the reduction of working time, that in a situation where we have such a high level of unemployment and short-time work in the so-called non-protected area, i.e. in the free economy, and in which we must say that not all people were equally affected by the effects of the crisis, for example, officials from the municipality of Vienna or officials now do not, of course, stand so far as to the cold wind of this recession, that we are going to make a reduction of working time there, which I really think is a completely false signal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Haubner.]] Mr Wöginger has asked for precise figures, and I would like to deliver them. I hear again and again how well we have come through the crisis, and I have listened closely to you, Federal Chancellor, you have said that Austria has yet to come through the crisis economically better than other countries, so to speak, the downturn, the recession is not so strong. – That’s true, but we have also come through this crisis worse than other countries. If you take it carefully and look at the European Union, you can see that twelve countries are ahead of us who are better, then there are three countries with a forecast GDP breakdown – in the last forecast of the European Commission – of 7.1, and twelve countries that are worse than Austria. – The middle field in my perception is certainly not a good result, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and this should be an order to you that you do better, because that is simply not a good development. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We now have to deal urgently with the issue of economics, in particular with the question, and we are still talking about how to create new jobs, because this speech from the comeback is a bit of an illusion that many – unfortunately also the government officials – will not be able to do so. We must ask ourselves how we can create new jobs, create new productivity in order to get out of the crisis. But: We are dealing with the basics, we are dealing again in the next few days with the basis for a new Covid Act, with an epidemic law. Unfortunately, we have to deal with the question of why it still takes, just as before the summer, five days, six days until the tests are evaluated. The last few weeks were an example of a communicative zigzag course that you have laid down, and of unity in the government I have really seen nothing at all. There was the talk of light at the end of the tunnel, shortly after it was announced by the political side – this is now announced! – that we are in the second wave – no one knows. The traffic light – such a good idea, which has also worked and been implemented in many other countries, for example in Norway for a long time in the school sector – has been killed politically, you can say. The traffic light is dead, which will never get the desired strength, actually sacrificed at the political bazaar of vanity and desires. It doesn't make sense to make politics like that, if you say we have to plan ahead, use the summer to get good in the autumn – you didn't actually do that, you just didn't use the summer. But the problem is: It's a marathon. We have to run a marathon here, where we need a rigorous strategy, a plan and take people with us. We need to propose a day-to-day approach and don't ask for a sprint where you hit political hooks every few days – and nothing else you're currently doing. These are political hooks, and some may also be indebted to the Vienna election campaign because they are very happy to say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That's federal government against Vienna, ÖVP against SPÖ, it's of course also ÖVP against Greens, it's also SPÖ against Greens, it's federal states against government! . Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a situation in which we are now committed to political parties and electoral tactics, but it is a situation in which everyone should pull a line and, as has been said, develop a rigorous plan together, how we can get through this crisis with everyday recipes. No one knows each other. People are insecure, but not because of the virus, but because of the politics they have seen in recent days. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The legal basis is also missing. And if you don't believe me that people don't know each other, I can tell you briefly: Last week, an employee of ours who is a parent spokesperson said she was called by parents who asked her: When do the schools lock up again? You're closer to politics, aren't you? – Not whether, but when; so uncertain are the people. The goal was – and it should still be – not to overburden the health system. Interestingly, last week I heard other statements that said this: Well, in spring you tried to eliminate the virus completely! – This is interesting, because I have never heard this goal from the official side, and I hope that it was not the goal of your strategy. It would better explain the fear rhetoric that you have shown, But this goal is completely blue-eyed. We need to find a way to live with this virus over the next few months, and we need to see that it does not result in an overload of the health system – but it did not happen. But what has happened is an overload in the field of education, in the field of employment, in the field of economics, in the field of equality between women and men. It was not a stress test for institutions, it was mainly a stress for those affected, for the unemployed, for working mothers, for educators and for many, many children who were taken the chances. I have recently read, there is obviously a principle in training that is called the Sabta principle: a safe occurrence with total ignorance! [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] So if I could observe something in the last few weeks, then that you have at least followed this Sabta principle well. You make a lot of press conferences, you keep a lot of tables in the cameras, you give off messages, so to speak, but I didn't experience the concrete plan and the strict strategy and also this on-one-strength drawing and Die-human-and-real-good-vehicle. I must therefore note that it was above all a stress test for the leadership quality of this government. And I'll tell you something: You fell through! Make You less press conferences, keep fewer taferls in the cameras, finally show leadership and stop insinuating the people! Create Instead, it is planning, because that is the most important thing when we are faced with rising unemployment – and that is what we will be, because short-term work is a short-term instrument. You know for yourself that even now, not all companies will continue to use this short-time work alone. By the way, Mr Wöginger, because you said that short-time work has saved businesses from pleas: For some companies, short-time work has also been a short-term job. So you must not forget that it does not always lead to the right results. Unemployment will rise on a massive scale, so you have to focus on what these enterprises now need. There are many measures that you are doing right, many measures that you are not yet doing well enough, many measures that you can take – and in this respect we are proposing today. But one thing ahead: What they can't even need is this zigzag course and this uncertainty. Let's take an event run: Yes, how should he plan, if he does not know what you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are saying again in a press conference in two days or what the Commission is negotiating for the Coronamepel today or then on Thursday again at the Basar? - I can't. It takes some planning; that is the only thing that is necessary to get out of this crisis well. Trust in the rulers that they come to good solutions, you may have been playful in the last few weeks. What I ask you to do is that you do not give up your trust in people – nor do you communicatively give up. When I hear your President of the Chamber of Economics, who says that the irration of a few will be crucial to the fact that unemployment is rising, I say that it does not show a lot of confidence in the people of Austria and also a little away from what is being done by poor economic aid at the beginning and, ultimately, by measures that have shifted pleite waves into the future. Have confidence in the people! I'll tell you something. We will get out of this crisis well, not because of the trust in the rulers, but because we can trust the people in Austria, who will again be active and creative, which you hope will remove in front of the feet and take their burdens, whether it be additional labour costs – which are, of course, a massive issue when it comes to the question of how to create new jobs – but also tax burdens. By the way, I would like to thank you, of course, for the tax relief. But you also know that the cold progression has eaten it up again. So it wasn't very sustainable. Trust the people! The people in Austria will lead Austria well out of the crisis. So, one last thing, because Mr Klubobmann Kickl has sent you two wishes.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17700	Skill Please come to the end of the sentence?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17715	The final sentence: The first wish was that you might close the borders so that no workers come to Austria. – I think that many old and caring people would be very grateful if we had one emergency from one day to another. – Don’t follow this advice! The second advice was: Stay hard on the Moria question! – Don’t follow this advice either, Federal Chancellor, because Austria would be good at bringing children and families – and be it only a few – out of the camps in this situation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17746	Mr Muchitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17767	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! Appreciate High House! Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said you have taken measures to prevent unemployment, you work around the clock to prevent pleite waves. But the reality is unfortunately another: Unemployment is still on record, and it will continue to rise – which has now been set before all the experts, the Minister of Labour and today, and you too, and will no longer fight. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have not done the right thing with your policy, but you have done the damage that has now been committed to unemployment, which has lost their job indebtedness and which is now ahead of nothing. ==References== March 184 days have passed; and in these 184 days there have been daily press conferences and announcements, but unfortunately announcements and press conferences do not help when it comes to saving and creating jobs. The short work, which is certainly a means, helps in the short term, but it is not a long-term solution, and it does not help those 408,000 people who are unemployed today to get back into a job. In other words, short work is not the all - cure, but it is a means of many but not a long-term solution. If you also cut the additional jobs at the AMS: ==References== In April, the ÖVP announced its position on what we agreed with a joint request. have 500 additional planning points in the AMS. Now it's going to be 350, and these are limited. Who will apply for the AMS if there are temporary posts until 2023? Also there you have your word that you have on 3rd. Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, where are the big, fast economic packages to get people back into jobs? – The opposition parties, the SPÖ has submitted applications here since April, presented economic packages, the power packs on tax justice, on economics, on combating the social crisis. No proposal was adopted. All applications were wiped away. You have also personally spoken here today about your father who has become unemployed. Mr Bundeskanzler, why don't you just think, if you have an example in your family, of how it all happened at the time when your father became unemployed at the age of 50? Would he not also deserve to get a higher unemployment benefit because he was indebtedly unemployed? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Would there have been a problem when you say that you are now increasing unemployment benefit by 300 euros for those who have become unemployed through Corona? This request has also simply been wiped away. Instead, operate You're a hunt for innocent unemployed people. I deliberately say “a hunt”, as only 65 000 open jobs are reported for 410,000 people seeking work. How are these people to find a job if there is no work? This is also inability and this is your responsibility that you have not responded with economic packages. We as SPÖ would have made it different anyway. We as SPÖ have demonstrated in the past in government responsibility, also in coalitions with the ÖVP, as we countered in such a crisis of employment measures, with incentives for companies. We wouldn't have done it that way. All those who are now unemployed have not deserved this situation. And that's why: Go back to your origin when you said: We're not leaving anyone behind! – Let alone You're not back! I think it is necessary to show social competence and make good social policy. Take our proposals, our urgent request seriously and agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17834	The honourable Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17856	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated women Federal ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the devices at home! This global pandemic has forced us to take health policy measures that have left its deep traces in our economy and, above all, in our labour market. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Forced?- Oh, my God!]] 400,000 people are still unemployed, 400,000 in short-term work. On the one hand, this is a human challenge, but on the other hand it is above all a labour market challenge. However, there would be much, much more people in this situation, we would not have taken measures at the very beginning and on a continuous basis with the hardening fund, with the fixed-cost subsidy, with tax subsidies, with credit moratories, and, last but not least, with this, I believe, many companies and therefore many hundreds of thousands of jobs will be saved from all the rightly praised measures of special corona-short work and the many other measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If the SPÖ request mentions incorrect economic aid, I can only reply to you that this is probably a completely missing analysis. We had 1.3 million people in short-time work in the high-level phase. Now there are 900 000 fewer or, vice versa, 900 000 more who have returned to full employment. This is probably an excellent proof of success for these short-term and medium-term aid measures that have helped the economy and, above all, saved hundreds of thousands of jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] You can of course have all kinds of ideas and creative ideas in relation to the aid measures, that is also good, but - also addressed to the SPÖ - ladies and gentlemen: You call your idea four-day week. By allowing yourself to try to spread sand into the eyes of the human being. The four-day week is already possible today, it is a purely work organisation measure, and it is at the latest since the flexibilization of working time, which we carried out at the beginning of the last legislative period, one which is often applied because it has just been made possible by law. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Rendi-Wagner]] They really mean a 20 percent reduction in working time, but they completely ignore the fact that one cannot distribute work like a cake. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Let's say it too!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We have unemployed!]] We have a completely divisive situation in the labour market: 51 percent of companies tell us that they do not find enough skilled workers, and we still have 45 infirmaries in Austria. It is therefore a very divisive situation on the labour market. This has much to do with skills that are not suitable for the open spaces, which has a lot to do with the lack of geographical availability. This also applies to apprentices: We have an East-West gap and – by balance – a zero balance between the open teaching posts and those looking for teaching places, but in Vienna we actually lack a few thousand teaching places, but you might want to try a little more in Vienna in your circles. That is, ladies and gentlemen, this bill that you are setting up does not go up. In view of the structure of the labour market, it simply does not act. On the contrary, I'm even telling you: The reduction of working time in the current phase is a benevolent defensive concept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] It increases costs, it reduces competitiveness, and it ultimately brings exactly the opposite of jobs, namely job losses. You can't be serious, that can't really be your intention. This model, which you are propagating here, is an illusion in the best case – well-informed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: The idea is from the 1970s!]] What would really help is increased regional mobility. I know that has its limits, that is clear to me already, but at the cross-regional mediation – that was also said by AMS chief Johannes Kopf a few days ago – there is still a lot inside. Most of the thing, however, is of course – our clubman has already mentioned it – on the subject of qualification: Qualification, qualification, qualification. In other words, this 700 million euros in addition to the AMS, where the AMS will have to work hard to create skills measures from it – but it will succeed – is the right approach to actually qualify the people for the jobs that are available: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They can do that, don't worry!]] Work foundations, as far as possible in-company training, part-time education, educational care and a strengthening of teaching – both in funding with the apprenticeship bonus, but above all in the various teaching professions, because it is now also evident in the crisis: People who have graduated from a vocational school or teaching are significantly less affected by unemployment or returned to a job more quickly than, for example, university graduates and masters. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: Finally, there are permanently secure jobs and also new jobs only in a long-term strong economy and with strong economic performance. This is a marathon, as NEOS's clubwoman has already said, but if we want to realize the forecasts of next year with 5 percent growth, it needs investment, it needs tax reductions to increase purchasing power. It takes investment in digitalization – this gives jobs – investment in research and development – that gives jobs – investment in the eco sector – that gives jobs – and, once again, skills, skills. Because permanent jobs, ladies and gentlemen, are simply the result of a strong, robust economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e17983	Mrs Belakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18005	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just a word to my previous speaker: This was probably one of the most honest speeches that came from the ÖVP: We don't need masters, we don't need university graduates, we just lock up the schools again! – Now we also know why the schools were so easily locked up. [[Abg. Head: Go! That does... woe!]] It is precisely in the early school week – now in the western federal states, last week in Vienna – the very question of many parents who are really thinking about the future of their children: How long will the schools be open? How long can the children go to school? – Even children ask: How long can I go? – It is not true that everything would have been great in the last half year. For half a year the children have been taken. Now we have the honest answer: We don't want masters and college graduates, we only do more teaching and technical schools! – This is the new way of the ÖVP! Honestly, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Salzmann: This is stupid!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] I don't know why You are so excited, you have said that, Mr Kopf – it is a pity for my speaking time – you have come here and said: In Vienna the SPÖ is solely responsible for the economic problem and the lack of teaching facilities. You can truly criticize all that is to be criticized by the red-green city government – and in doing so you will always have me as an ally – but the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Vienna, a certain Mr. Ruck, is also responsible. You shouldn't let that fall under the table, not because he's so close to the mayor of Vienna. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have to go straight into the right light. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go back now! In fact, today is a special meeting on labour market problems, which do not get any better. We are in front of an Exodus on the Austrian labour market. You can continue to talk about this. The Federal Chancellor said: We see a light at the end of the tunnel. The question is what tunnel he looked into this time, because when he last spoke of the light light at the end of the tunnel – it was about the number of infections – he called the second wave two days later, one does not know exactly why. Today he said: There is a light at the end of the labour market tunnel. – You will probably need to revise, revise this light, too, Mr. Federal Chancellor. After all, we are facing a huge insolvency in the next spring, which blows the squats from the roofs. They put themselves here and say: Everything's gonna be fine, it's gonna be all right. Why is that coming? – Yes, there were tax charges, but as you said correctly: Stunnings. They'll be fine. This means that companies have to pay double and triple. Where are you going to take it from? At the same time, call out a second wave. It's a slow question: Call on which basis You out of this second wave? You split this country, and you continue and continue to do everything without any real material background. So that the experts in the traffic lights commission just don't say anything wrong, intervene, let your chief of the cabin call so that your opinion is only represented there – not that they may come to a different result from you there. That's the policy you're making, Mr. Federal Chancellor: having the scepter in your hands everywhere. I've been thinking about myself a lot in the last few weeks: Does this Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz actually believe what he says? – But that’s absurd, you can’t believe if you look at all the scientific pages. Don't do that, you'll hide a page by saying: Yes, these are the conspiracy virologists; the people who say this are stupid and don't know each other. Mr Reimon even said: These are spiders. – This is the attitude of this federal government. So you can't believe it, Federal Chancellor, and that's why you're on the wrong path. It would be good to think about yourself: Are you even a maker? - No, Chancellor, you're not. You'll get your orders from Brussels. You're an agent, and you're not a creator, you're a craftsman. They are just about splitting the population in our country, splitting society, and you want to split the political parties. They divide the population by saying: These are the good ones and these are the evil ones – these are the life-threatening ones. These are the fools, these are those who believe you can compare this with the flu. – Then you draw some horror scenarios of hundreds of thousands of dead. Let me give you an example: Today in the morning I received a call from a very good friend who works in Germany and is completely desperate because she is already getting cancelled. It earns 90 percent of its income as a self-employed person in Germany. There one considers whether to put Vienna on the red list. What does that mean, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – If you didn't play on the phone, you might give me an answer or think about it. What does that mean for this woman? - She's desperate. She doesn't know if she can pay the rent. She does not know if she can continue to feed her children, and she has an additional problem: The father of her children also lives in Germany, and she does not know if her children can see the father next weekend. You have no answers to all these questions. You are not interested because you are not interested in children at all, Mr. Bundeskanzler. It is only important for them to live a blockwart mentality, a cocktail mentality. That's exactly why today I have a body that an Austrian artist designed, and I'm saying: She has nothing to do with the FPÖ and has no proximity to the FPÖ at all – and also the designer of this body. She is, however, a creative artist who, in the lockdown – at the time when the artists were left standing in the rain, because there was nothing there, because she was left standing on the street as well. She made this little body with “I saw di au”. You know, Federal Chancellor, this very one of your policies leads to this mentality: “I saw di au”, if you don’t wear a mask if you don’t disinfect your hands and when you sit on the park bankerl. – We do not want this policy for Austria. We want normality.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18073	Mrs Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18094	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, it is really not reassuring – especially for me as a youth speaker – to see the very high unemployment among young people in Austria. If young people get the signal at the beginning of their careers not to be needed, this not only depends on the self-confidence of those concerned, but also on the economic balance of life, which is recognized by looking at the years that are missing from the pension, or also the years needed for a higher salary level. As in other age groups, the situation for young people presents a regionally different but also different challenge in the sectors. We know that especially in tourism and gastronomy, which is the hardest hit industry, very many young people are employed and affected – in internships, teaching places, part-time, in typical studies behind the bar. That is why we have created measures specifically for tourism to ensure survival, because we know that tourism is one of the biggest employers, such as the fixed cost subsidy up to 100 percent, which is existential, especially for night gastronomy, which still cannot be locked up, and which excludes dividend payments, and the extension of short work is also vital. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] Fortunately, the projected disaster scenarios, as announced by the University of Linz in May – for example, the doubling of youth unemployment or the lack of up to 7,000 teaching places – have not occurred. The AMS mentions a teaching gap of 2,822 teaching places for August. This is significantly lower than it is feared by various sides, and overall shows that the measures taken have been effective, such as when it comes to the apprenticeship bonus, for example, when it comes to short-time work for apprentices and the fact that the net replacement rate of 100 percent could also be implemented in this area. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But, of course, our claim is not only to dispel the hardness and prevent the worst, so we will also have to address the increase in over-company training places as appropriate. Whatever we need to talk about in the future – because it is important, and it has been discussed several times today – is the reduction of working time. Why? – Because the reduction of working time allows many jobs to be created, because the reduction of working time also increases productivity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] – Yes, dear NEOS, and no, the private sector will not be able to master everything alone, we have just seen it in the Corona crisis. I'm glad we have a strong social state. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] The reduction of working time mainly relieves women who have to do double and triple work in the corona crisis. Who is still affected by unpaid work? – These are the women in particular. In addition, it is still seen as a matter of course that they take over unpaid work, such as childcare. That is why Birgit Hebein's demand is that the city of Vienna as an employer introduces a 35-hour week and thus creates 7,000 new jobs, not only important but also reasonable. With this, the SPÖ could show directly and quickly how seriously it means its demands. Vienna could once again show as role model what the city can do and how future-oriented it is. This would help young people and at the same time give them a perspective that they need and which they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18157	Mr Loacker has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18179	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! [[Abg. Kickl: That's right now!]] The reference to the reduction of working time by Mr Neßler makes it unnecessary for me to take back three or four speakers. So there are obviously people in this house who believe that if a balance-sheet account holder, a car mechanic, a cook works less, the work can be divided between unemployed truck drivers and unemployed truck drivers. That's how you imagine it! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Head.]] I also believe that a lot of employees in the city of Vienna are doctors in the KAV. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Well, we don't seem to have a lot of doctors standing around. If the doctors work less, I'll see where you'll take the other doctors you need. This is the magic in the green heads of Members Koza and Neßler. On the other hand, Pippi Langstruf is really a learner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] There is another one that has complained, namely Mr Rainer Wimmer There are companies that make profits! – Mr Wimmer, no company has yet taken advantage of it. You have to say: Safe jobs are those in companies that make profits, because if the company does not make a permanent profit, the job is also a busty job. This could have been the case until the union. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What protects against termination? – A company that makes profits, and a thriving economy. This brings us to the point where this government – on this side and on this side alike – completely fails. [[towards green sign]] [[in the direction of ÖVP]] What an entrepreneur needs to invest and hire employees is a certain reliability, a certain confidence and trust. If in one day the message of jubilation comes: Light at the end of the tunnel, one gets the vaccination next June and the other January, and maybe we'll get it even before!, but a few days later it's called: Now it's gonna be serious again! Now the starting limits are coming again, the feasts are limited to 50 people!, who should know then? Today it's called again, it's light at the end of the tunnel. I think the light at the end of the tunnel you see is the flashing of the Coronamepel, and it shines differently every day. So no one can invest because he doesn't know what next month is, which is in half a year. That's the mistake the government makes. The virus will accompany us for many months to come, which will still be curved around for a very long time, because if there is vaccination, it is not yet produced, it is not yet distributed and has not been vaccinated; it will last for many months. And what you can't accomplish is a concept that allows us to continue living, working on, continuing to learn, continuing to study, even if there is the corona virus. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This would require you to look ahead to the calendar more than until the next press conference, and this is not foreseen in the political concept of this government. What is already planned is always a warning: Uh, now open the schools again, now it's gonna be dangerous! The schools! – You have to listen to the Federal Chancellor once: Evil are always the schools. Schools are something very dangerous, there the children go! This is where the truth is twisted, because your intention is to lock up the schools, because obviously you do not want any educated citizens. They could have come up with what's being played there for a game. The schools are always guilty, and in reality, Covid's children are only very little at risk, developing comparatively mild symptoms. Children are not super-preachers, rather the children bring the disease from home than they drag them home, and schools are not clusters. And if I can appeal to you, it's the following: Leave the schools open! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If the schools are not open, then no one can work, then the entrepreneur also does not know if his employees are in the company next week. The parents are troubled because they do not know if their children are well cared for. The economy can never get started if you are constantly threatening to close the schools more or less. Now a few more steps are coming to the short work: Karlheinz Kopf has rightly said that many jobs have been saved with the short work. However, short work can always be only a bridge from one bank to the next. Short work can't be a bridge into the ocean if we don't see the shore. It is therefore also necessary to see that this measure is somehow restrained to the point where it is used where it leads to normal employment, but that it will not be permanent, because short-time work does not create new jobs. This is also something that this government fails to do: It dies old, and such crises cause old people to die faster than they would otherwise have died, and now new things have to be created. You have to prepare the ground for new jobs, for new jobs in new industries that we have not known so far. There is certainly a need for much-mentioned qualification, and it is also about offering the companies something that is now recruiting someone, and not only those who are now keeping someone. This view of the new, the look into the future completely lacks me, which is also lacking in the concept of short work so far. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Phases are important, the Minister of Health always speaks of phases: There we are now in the phase or in the phase. Kukident does not have as many phases as the Minister of Health – there are several phases in the short work, and there is now an urgent need to do something. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[16:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18357	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18382	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! You said you promised: ‘It costs what it wants.’ That was the promise, and for a few, it may even have been true. For the board of directors at the AUA, for the board of directors at KTM, at Strabag, at so many companies, yes, for which it has really called “cost what it wants”. No matter if the company is in a deep crisis due to Corona, whether the company is using Austrian tax money to a large extent, because otherwise one will not get through the crisis, regardless of whether the managers will be holding bonuses! That's what we've experienced. Moreover, this was equally true for shareholders and shareholders of many companies whose profit distributions were also secured: “It costs what it wants”! No matter whether companies are reducing jobs, the government has ensured that the profit distributions of companies are still paid out. We already said at the beginning of the crisis: No one can be enriched at the expense of the crisis! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I continue to say so, because we do not want to see this shameless client policy, and that is why we make a request. As a company, it cannot be used as tax money, tens of thousands of euros of tax money, while at the same time disbursing profits in millions, which is also said to be so. Why is that so important? – Let’s take two more examples, they were also in the newspaper this week: MAN, it belongs to VW, or Agrana, the sugar factory – these also distributed the dividends to shareholders and shareholders. That's what it's got to do. Now, however, the two want to cut out 2 450 employees. It didn't work for them anymore. What we see here is that “cost it, what it wants” may have paid for your friends, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but certainly not for the working people who get up every day and go to work, who can’t do anything for this crisis, but who now pay for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do you say? They are actually the 360 employees of the ATB, who are actually standing in front of the door and wondering what should happen to them now. More than half of the employees are over 50 years old and have worked in this farm for a lifetime. What do you say to them? You haven't written them back for four weeks, but what do you say if they ask where the help you promised remains? What do you say to the 150 employees in Leopoldsdorf, where a sugar factory is now to be locked?– We do not need to talk seriously about climate change if we now have to make a sugar factory if we have to import sugar, which we can produce ourselves in Austria, from Brazil in the future. Does the Vienna sugar come from Brazil in the supermarkets? Is that a sensible environmental policy? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No, we can't watch it anymore. You can't leave all of this to the free market. The free market does not regulate this, it cannot. “Taste what it wants,” you promised. Now let's do it! Now is the time to fight for jobs, otherwise they are gone. It is now time to stand hand in hand with the employees, otherwise they will suffer badly. And now is the time to raise new industries, create new jobs, so that we can really say no one is left behind. We talked to the employees outside the door today. They do not wish for another press conference, they wish for jobs. We have presented a package with which we could create 250 000 jobs over the next ten years. Let's just do it! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18570	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Kaufmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18594	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, but above all also dear spectators at home! As entrepreneurs we have hard weeks behind us. It is not easy time to pay salaries and wages to our employees at the end of the month. Strong measures by this Federal Government have helped to make this possible. With short work, these valleys could be bridged and further payments made with the fixed cost grant, so that our businesses can really see light at the end of the tunnel. It has also been a long time today, but it is now also important to put in place the right measures for the future. It is now important to invest there so that short work, where it is necessary, continues. It is now important to invest in further qualification, just as Minister Aschbacher has already announced. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Why is that so essential? – The numbers have already liked: We currently have 12,000 open teaching places in Austria, but only 10,000 teaching places. Every entrepreneur, every entrepreneur I meet or telephone with at the moment, is looking for employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am looking for apprentices as well as professionals for my company, but they are simply not available on the market. It is precisely the important that we now create the right framework conditions for the employees who are looking for, who are perhaps now also in the final track of a short work and cannot be further employed, so that the entrepreneurs who are looking for employees will also be found and we can also close this delta in Austria. I think, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, it should be our common desire to be our common motivation that we bring as many people into employment as possible. However, I would like to say one thing, Mr President, and also some other speakers from the SPÖ: One could always believe that the public hand is the hand that creates the jobs that are needed to enable employment. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – No, it’s the companies that do that, and I think it’s important here to take courage and not somehow agree with someone. Make They together many young people Courage – and this is particularly important to me as an apprentice speaker – is also the way to dual vocational training, because we need these professionals in our country tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us, therefore, jointly create the framework conditions for a free and eco-social market economy and not work against it!
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18661	Next speaker: Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18685	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! That was a controversial speech, Mrs. Herr: We're not leaving anyone behind! I just had the question: How are the 27 employees you have recently fired in social democracy? I can remember: We don't let anyone down, we fight for every job! You should go ahead with good example instead of just giving empty words of yourself. The concern is basically correct and important, and I am already in the government group. It really reads like a screenplay of a bad movie: The government comes back from the summer break, the corona is taking off again, the election campaign begins. The second wave comes just by chance. One has felt directly, ladies and gentlemen, how the population has breathed up in summer because you were on summer vacation and in summer break. It's really remarkable how obvious that is. Now that you're back, the chaos continues: The citizens who pay into health insurance, which fulfil their duty, are still not treated, operations are postponed. I wonder, then, if you are talking about taking measures from a health point of view, whether you are asking yourself the question of how much you have actually done with all the treatments you have not carried out and which you have postponed. You have to pay attention to that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They're back, and the hip-shoe actions and hip-shoe regulations go on, and you don't see – that's what's really been addressed today – what you're doing to the entire organizers, but also to the customs clubs and sports clubs, because there's no planning certainty. They send them to the ruins with their hip-shooting actions and hip-shooting regulations, with the biggest hip-shot of the last days definitely the chaos around the new regulations in schools. You don't know what you're doing to our children by suddenly getting new orders on the way in the middle of school, while you've been sleeping all summer break, leaving an absolute chaos behind. But they do not only to our children, but also to the labour market in this context. What do you think about how an employed single mother feels or how she feels when suddenly the child has to be taken from school, although there is actually no real reason for that? What do you think the two parents do when they are both working and the child suddenly has to go home from school? The grandparents, according to your definition the high-risk group, will be hard to look at the children. They are still pushing the people who are pushing on the labour market. This, ladies and gentlemen, would need to be the opposite. It would require a functioning childcare and normality in school, instead of a new normality that you invented, and instead of fear and panic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It needs real, strong impulses for the economy and the labour market, not your alms policy, but impulses like the corona thousands, really from the baby to the big one, not for small groups. It needs the greatest tax relief of the Second Republic as an impulse to move in our country, in the economy and in the labour market, not this troopy policy of discharge that you live. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear need for politics for our Austrians, instead of sending dozens of millions abroad after an attempt at extortion, as you have done, while we have over 800 000 unemployed people who do not know how to pay the rent. For this reason, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no need for apprehension government politicians to spread fear, it needs courageous, determined policies at the same level for our Austrians and for our Austrians, so that we can pull the cart back out of the dirt you have sunk. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:08]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18853	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs. Christine Aschbacher has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18878	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Minister and Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As Minister for Labour, Family and Youth, I am now allowed to speak on this extremely important subject. It's been mentioned a lot, and I'd like to talk to you for 4 to 5 hours. We have implemented so many measures, we are prepared for autumn and winter, but my speaking time is so to speak limited and therefore I focus my remarks on a few specific points. I would like to make it clear briefly that the Coronabonus for job seekers was paid out last week and was finished this week. Over 403 000 people have already received 450 euros on their account. It is important to clarify here as well: We're not leaving anyone behind! We have said that we support all those who At least 60 days of work, and we did. The money has arrived. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The figures have been mentioned several times today. I would like to mention the following: Since mid-April, when we had to record the highest level of the crisis – I personally remember these days and will not forget my life with certainty – we have already been able to bring over 180,000 people back into employment, and each and every one of these people who now have a job is a step in the right direction and a success. That at this point. At the same time, it is of course important to me as Minister of Labour that we keep the focus, now for the windy autumn and for the icy winter ahead of us. As every year, there will be seasonal effects this year, so that unemployment will now rise at the end of summer or at the beginning of autumn. It is therefore important that we are prepared with concrete measures. In this context, we would like to support the people who are still in short work or who need short work in phase three, from October to March, namely with a job guarantee on the one hand and with financial security on the other, so that no one gets less than 80 percent of the salary. At the same time, however, we also want to consider the need for short-time work for companies in the course of an economic audit to enter short-time work. This is currently in implementation, so that the companies will be able to make up for 1. ==References====External links== Furthermore, we have a fully packed work market policy instrument case. It is important that we support different target groups and look at different industries. We are prepared, we have set up a work foundation, as the Federal Chancellor has said. This will be available to people from October, especially for those who take part. We provide the framework conditions. The employees of the AMS do the work and the preparations for high-speed tours so that from October on, people can be further qualified and re-trained as part of the work foundation, where it is necessary, for areas where we need people. We also want to balance this further training financially, with a support of 180 euros. All those who complete training or training for at least four months will receive 180 euros more on the account from the first month, and that is an increase of 19 percent per month, based on an average unemployment benefit. That is, we also support these people financially during the time of training. I would also like to take a short look at the fact that we have been able to secure almost 30 percent of jobs with the corona short work and that we are also focusing on qualification. This means that companies, together with employees, can take advantage of the time over the autumn and winter, when there are fewer orders in some sectors, to prepare themselves to be fit again when the orders come in again and when, so to speak, a normal employment goes off towards full-use. But I am particularly interested in the target group of young people. We have always said that we support young people, and that is what we are doing now. Just today, one of my nephews – my children are still in school – has started to attend a higher school and is very happy and happy about this place. As Minister of Labour, it was important to set up a youth employment Task Force already in early summer, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Education Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs to give young people an opportunity in the labour market to train and leave no one behind. With united forces, we are able to ensure that all those young people who want to make an education can also get a training place, either in a company, for example with the apprenticeship bonus, or in a secondary school, because the Minister of Education has increased the funds for the higher schools. Thank you at this point for your cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, we have also set up a foundation specifically for young people, with which we support 1 000 young people in getting a special focus on the labour market. These are those young people who have some of them harder, or those who are mobile and flexible, who do not have child care obligations, for example. We support these young people in the field of mobility across the federal states, when moving to where we have a lack of apprentices, to Upper Austria and to Styria. We support them by taking over the removal costs or on-site rental costs so that this flexibility can be better lived. This is particularly a massive topic in the city of Vienna. There are nine young people here per open course. We want to close this sheer, allow young people flexibility and support them. That is why I appeal to the young people who do not have care obligations: Take advantage of this opportunity, go out to the federal states as well and get on with it! You'll be needed! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We are therefore prepared – for all those who seek work, want to continue to qualify for it, for all those we secure the jobs, in the course of corona-short work, but also for those for whom we create new jobs. As a Federal Government, we make investments of 12 billion euros, for example with the investment premium of my colleague, the Minister of Economic Affairs, or with other things like the municipal billions. This creates new jobs, where they are needed. We are concerned with investing in people. That's why: Let's go! Let us come through this autumn, windy and icy time together! Keep it up, it'll be better again! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18972	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e18993	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ministers! High house! In terms of content, I support today the motion for a resolution that you have put forward on the subject of 'female priorities in labour market policy' as the spokesperson of my group, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, even though I am, honestly, somewhat amazed at it. Why am I amazed? - Because there's already what you're asking for here. In your application, you demand women's policy priorities in the planned work foundation. However, these priorities have been presented by the ministers Aschbacher and Raab in summer. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: There is no foundation! Where's the foundation?]] This focus has been particularly important to us, because we know, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, that women are overrepresented in those sectors which are particularly affected by corona-related unemployment. That's why it was important to us. With this work foundation, we are doing exactly what the labour market experts have proposed as urgently necessary further vocational qualification, re-training and re-orientation. That's what we're doing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not only do I say that confirms AMS chief Johannes Kopf. Klubobmann Wöginger already quoted him today. In an interview yesterday in the “Kurier” he said – and I like to quote it –: “For example, we will focus heavily on the topic of women in technology. This is a luxury programme, because we take all the costs up to the university. There are women who will actually study computer science. The AMS then pays the cost of living during the training. We even have a small own program with the ÖBB for train drivers. There are women who, with our help of 45 years of age, always want to make a technical training.” – That’s it, colleague Heinisch-Hosek. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Koza has already carried it out: The 700 million euros hard work foundation is unprecedented, and this also applies to the women's policy focus – you have now heard from the AMS chief. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] What you also require in your application is the use of at least 50 percent of the AMS funding budget for women. You don't have to ask, that's already the case. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No...!]] I should also like to remind you that the Federal Government confirmed in August that these funds are being used in this way. That's it. I can also quote someone from you, namely the head of the ÖGB Women's Party, Korinna Schumann. On the same day she said in the press: “It is only fair that at least 50 percent of the AMS funding budget is used for the integration of women into the labour market.” That's why we do it. So what you're demanding is reality. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] One of your demands, which is not mentioned in your request, but which your Federal Party chairperson is constantly raising, is the one after a reduction in working time, which would primarily benefit women. In Vienna you could implement your own claim, because there are two parties who are supposed to act equally for it. I know about the greens, I'm not quite sure at the SPÖ. I believe that the Vienna Greens' proposal is on the table: a reduction in working time to 35 hours. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This would, in particular, relieve women, which would improve working conditions on a sustainable basis and would, of course, also have potential for additional jobs. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, follow the motto: Not only talk, not only demand, but also do! Put it together in Vienna – you can do it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19086	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19111	Madam President. Appreciate women ministers! Mr. Minister! Actually, I wanted to find praise for the German Chancellor's stay here for so long and do the whole thing – from his point of view – on Zinnob, because I and, as I believe, many others have noticed in front of the television screens, how wrong he feels when he talks about jobs or business. He was certainly not as sure as when it was about Moria or anything else, as if it were about the Balkan route, he was not as strict. Today, one has also noticed his dissatisfaction. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If he speaks of a normality in 2021, that normality comes back, then I know he doesn't understand business as much as Klubobmann Wöginger does. He said: The short-time work has saved companies “from the pleite. ” [[Abg. Wooger: Yes, yes!]] - No! You know what that is? – The companies could have sent employees to the unemployed as well. That's a contribution! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] I think the entrepreneurs have made a contribution to the fact that employees are not as bad as they are in the unemployed as they can survive this time. Interestingly, the Federal Chancellor took over my word, something I said already in spring, namely: ‘Light at the end of the tunnel’. – But this light is for the entrepreneurs of the train coming to meet them! The belief that the economy will have recovered next year, because normality returns, is a mistake. If you believe that the short work has done, look at the city hotels: Before the next short work story starts, most of the city hotels report 50 percent of their employees unemployed. That's what I'm asking myself: What's that? There's a problem! [[Call the ÖVP:... solution!]] When it comes to economic policy, I always agree with colleagues: The problem is the cost factor of work. – This is the issue we need to regulate. We must dramatically reduce the taxation of the factor work, and that is also the dramatic job engine. The qualification measures also help, but not so, as the dramatic reduction of the cost factor work. The extension of short work is not the solution. As a businessman, you will then have the choice: Do I now report to my employees unemployed or are the costs on the labour factor lowered in such a way that it pays off not to report 50 percent of the employees unemployed, but perhaps only 10 percent and the rest in short work? These are things we need. – That was the first of five points. What we still need – that was surprisingly not said today, but it is especially important to me as an entrepreneur –: What does winter look like? I need reliability and planning! Many entrepreneurs, not only in tourism, but also in holiday hotels, in the clinics and in other companies, need reliability and planning, and not this confusion in traffic lights and traffic lights, because nobody knows where they are going at all, there also the employees, if they have care obligations, do not know how to continue in the school of their children. This insecures people. What we need is confidence. You can't give them to us because you've announced the second wave. Whatever we need is security for those who cannot lock up. In this context, I have already set up finance minister Blümel some time ago that there is a need for protective factors. The operating aid alone is too little. They also need to be able to place other or special sectors such as night gastronomy, such as club culture and other areas under a suitable shield. What we don't need – and this is also very important – is to preserve comprehensively with tax money. We also need the honesty to say, zombie economy versus leisure economy; now to shave and push in all over a comb, that will not work because the Marods also destroy the good, and this will be permanent. This displacement competition must be eliminated. There's a need for concepts. Yes, you have delivered good concepts at the investment premium, but the investment premium only helps those who have been able to achieve successes in this difficult time, who have now been able to invest, who have held back enough reserves from the past good years, or who have been able to hold back these reserves. And you need new jobs and new apprenticeships. But, my colleague, head: Why can apprentices be trained in the gastronomy only where there is a Vienna schnitzel, but where there is Spaghetti Carbonara, isn't it? Why is this prevented by the trade regulation and the vocational training law? There is a need for more freedom for entrepreneurs, because this is the only way to create more teaching places for young people. If an Italian or Chinese restaurant is not allowed to train apprentices, then something is lazy in the state of Austria! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's what we've got to do! We need different framework conditions in particular, and these conditions are the tax moments. Unfortunately, I have to write this to you behind the ears! You must now try as quickly as possible to make more money and less cost the employees. The cost factor labour belongs dramatically reduced! This must be the top command for you to get the economy not 2021, not 2022, but 2024 back so far that we have overcome all of this. Next year, Federal Chancellor, normality will not have come back. Businesses will have enormous difficulties because they are now taking the supporting backpack into the new year, because they will not be able to make investments next year and, above all, the framework conditions in the regional environment have become enormously difficult. God forbid this unemployment to continue to rise! The short work is a contribution from entrepreneurs and you should thank them and not the social partners.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19178	The motion for a resolution, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19194	I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[17:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19319	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mr Klaus Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19351	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Chancellor! Appreciate women ministers! Estimated Minister! An interesting and just important issue for us Social Democrats is the issue of jobs. Recently, in the "Tyrol daily" I read something about the CV of German chancellors in brief, and that was a bit different with his father. It was not like now that people were getting unemployed and not getting a job, but that was announced before; he had nine months and there was also a full deal. That is why it has nothing to do with this social situation. I am already on the subject: I am so sorry that we now have a Federal Chancellor in this Republic, who is neoliberal and not social. [[Abg. Loacker: I would argue with neoliberal!]] Especially at this time when it is about giving people a perspective and work, it would be important to think socially. That is what we have done in the SPÖ for 130 years, and we want to do so in the future, and we have proved it here with many, many applications. In part, the ÖVP would just have to write it down. For example, with the apprentices: In April, we brought in our club to do something so that there is work for apprentices in autumn or teaching places. Despite all the requests that we have made after that, it has not been done; the applications have been postponed in the committees. This is not a job, and I therefore believe that this government will not do it in the future. I can only tell you one thing: Go here now and take over our requests! You can also, if you don't think of yourself, change it a little bit. That's possible, too. Then the same thing comes out under the line, and you have brought it. Well, I'm supposed to be right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It seems to me, as if the Federal Chancellor is making a bit of a mistake there: If Minister Anschober has a slightly better survey value, this is a certain sign for the Federal Chancellor – but that is not crucial for the people who have to fear their existence. These are important, and I therefore believe that the apprentices must be given an apprenticeship guarantee, a training guarantee up to 25 years. At the trans-regional teaching workshops, where it would have taken place – now you might need them for training, now you could take them up, Mrs Minister, the companies are no longer there, they are going in a row in bankruptcy or quit – you do not do anything. On the contrary: You still took back the apprentice compensation. That's how you think of the apprentices. It can't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski.]] You also do not make free items for the apprentices, you do not provide education for the apprentices. That will be in the future, I think, just not going that way. As far as the municipalities are concerned, too: We asked you – Mr Kollross wrote a letter to you with mayors, which clearly says: Please support the congregations as far as the apprentices are concerned! – but you don’t get an answer. The same is true of women's policy. If I heard today that you already did everything Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek brought in, I can only laugh. Women are actually already working for the rest of the year due to their payment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That cannot be it, and that is why we are tabling a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what I wanted to bring in. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19492	Mr President, the motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Gudrun Kugler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19516	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Courage must be honoured, but if the SPÖ is trying here to put the challenges of the labour market in the face of the problems that exist in Vienna, now that the Federal Government is pushing into the shoes, then that is not courage, but arrogance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The situation of the labour market depends very much on the general economic environment, and there is Vienna in Austria. You know very well that the unemployment rate in Vienna is up to 15 percent, the Austrian average is 9 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Mr Meinl-Reisinger said today that we are in the middle of Europe. If we calculate Vienna, then we are no longer in the middle field, but are in the front. I do not think we should close our eyes to the fact that the situation in Vienna has deteriorated over the last ten years. Almost 40 percent of the unemployed in Austria are in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, you can then speak on behalf of the European Parliament. The problem of teaching places is also a problem of Vienna. The Minister has already explained it: one in nine; nine job seekers come to a teaching centre in Vienna, in other federal states – I call as examples only Upper Austria, Salzburg, Tyrol and Styria – there is a relationship between one and one. Mr Köchl, who has now given a speech as if he had just come in, was also directed: If your application says that apprenticeships are to be created, especially in the public service, then you can do so in Vienna. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: It's done!]] The “Lost Generation”, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you spoke about today, the “Lost Generation” lives in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why is that so? – I now call you three reasons why the Lost Generation lives in Vienna. First: Ask entrepreneurs how they are doing in Vienna! The fees are higher, the entrepreneurs feel harassed by the city. The real estate prices are higher, the duration of the dedication is longer, there are own Vienna taxes, the traffic situation is a disaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] Ask an entrepreneur who needs the Internet a lot! Not even the Internet is enough for entrepreneurs in Vienna. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I have visited an entrepreneur who monitors operating systems via the Internet in several European countries, and I have seen for myself how the images move only by a small step every 10 seconds. This is a completely unacceptable situation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But that's just a reason. The labour market is also linked to integration and education. I have to point out: When we look into the studies, we see that education standards in reading competence and mathematics of 80 percent of the Vienna NMS students and primary students in the 8. It is not possible to reach school level. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Belakovich.]] Yes, how are these poor students to find a job? A third reason: You have not yet reformed the social assistance, which is very low in incentives and which produces a pull effect after Vienna, although you would be obliged by law to implement the basic social assistance law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you have proposed this topic yes to get some good tips for your work in Vienna. We'll be Just after the election in October, you will be happy to help. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let's not stand there! The OECD has noted in the employment outlook that Austria is well positioned. Many measures have already been presented to you by the Federal Ministers today, and I hope that many of Mr Loacker's and Mr Schellhorn's concerns have also been overcome by this: Work Foundation, training bonus, apprenticeship bonus – Mr. Köchl, on whom you have also forgotten –, location policy measures, various aids that are far more differentiated than the Corona Thousands you are proposing and which is coming to the people just these weeks. All of this is being done, but the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is cohesion, because the best thing for the labour market is if we have this corona pandemic in hand. We can only do that together, and you, ladies and gentlemen, are not a great help.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19630	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer is speaking next time. – Mrs Club Chairman, you are speaking. Haven't you spoken? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] Then I'll delete you from the list of speakers. Mrs. Club President, you are removed from the list of speakers. There's still a word message to me now. Please, Mr Peter Wurm.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19664	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! [[The speaker puts a table with the inscription “The End of the Laughing, the End of Childhood.”, on which four children are depicted with mouth-nose protection, on the speaker’s desk.]] It's an exciting discussion, as expected. If you summarized the score, you might also say: Operation succeeded, patient dead. Maybe you can do this a little closer. Has this operation been done so well by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany? What was the purpose of the operation? – In our opinion, it has been since the beginning of March to spread the ominous fear of death and panic. I am still shaken, however lasting this has worked. I would not have expected that, in 2020, so broad levels of population in Austria would really go on the glue and internalize everything that the government has spread about fear of death, panic and world downfall. I have to say, of course, that almost all the media in Austria have also helped – and there almost all journalists have taken part in it – not to report and inform on facts. Maybe we'll come to the virus ourselves for a short time. I don't know who remembers: At that time, at the beginning, there was the great wave of the Federal Chancellor and Minister Anschober: We have too little breathing equipment! – There was a great panic because of the breathing equipment. You will have noticed: No one's been talking about breathing equipment for months. The background is simple, that intubating with breathing equipment has basically proved to be a treatment error, with unfortunately many of God's dead in the early weeks. What didn't happen? - You've seen it: People didn't die like flies. There were also no “hundreds of thousands of dead ” as announced by the Federal Chancellor. I think the vast majority of those who think rationally have noticed: Corona is not plague, cholera or ebola, but it is a virus that can be dangerous to risk groups and old people. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Also for young people!]] That is, the operation has been successful for the government, and it has put the population in fear and panic. This has also made a lasting impact. Maybe another supplement because it came from the SPÖ as well: I would like to point out that there are usually 300,000 breast cancer tests in Austria, unfortunately God, 1 600 deaths, and there are now nearly 1.4 million trials in Corona with almost 700 deaths. I'm just saying that so that you can look at the relations in this direction. Next question: Is the patient dead now, the patient economy? - No, thank God. In fact, one has to say that the economy has survived halfway up to now. Of course, she has been beaten and counted and there are very, very serious difficulties depending on the industry, but the economy has survived so far. The SPÖ must also be advised, Mrs Rendi-Wagner – you are basically honouring the request – to follow a clear line. You have also joined these masks, this mask wheel of today. Economics is primarily psychology, and if we have been spreading fear and panic for months, it will not bring the economy forward and you will not be able to secure jobs, Mrs Rendi-Wagner. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner lays a mouth-nose protection mask.]] – They put them back on; that’s the wrong sign. [[Abg. Lightness lays a mouth-nose protection mask.]] Unfortunately, the programme of social democracy is a backward one because one cannot create jobs in the sense of the plan economy. It won't work. Unfortunately, God, in my opinion, you are on the wood road.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19723	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have announced that you should also present a motion for a resolution in the broad guidelines: Your group has only half a minute of remaining speaking time. That is, if you plan, you'd have to come to it now, otherwise he can't be brought in. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19739	I come to the conclusion and to the motion for a resolution. For my part, the final sentence could be: Not the virus is dangerous, the government's measures are dangerous. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] He's been distributed. Do you want me to read it out?
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19778	No, just explain in the basics! I would ask you to explain it very briefly in the broad outlines, because the speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e19793	As the President-in-Office of the Council gives me the floor: The main objectives are to assure the economy of a package of measures to cope with this serious crisis, especially in the autumn and winter sectors, including job creation. We too believe that, for example, the unemployment benefit for those who have come to the handcushion should be increased accordingly to 70 percent. There are many other measures. – The application was distributed. I thank you for your attention. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20053	Thank you. The motion for a resolution has been presented in the broad outlines, is considered to have been introduced and is also being distributed to all Members. Next speaker: Mr Maximilian Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20083	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As someone who has been fighting for employees with many other Members of all the colleagues represented here for a few weeks, up to NEOS in the Obersteiermark at the ATB site, I would like to say something at the beginning of this speech: I was very glad that my group has provided the opportunity for us to talk about this very important issue today. In order for Mrs Kugler to come here now and use this so important theme for a plumpous election speech, we are definitely not helped in the Obersteiermark, dear colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Although it still claims that the Federal Government has nothing to do with labour market policy – I have heard it anyway – well, then one no longer needs to wonder. [[Abg. Kugler: I didn't claim!]] In fact, I am no longer surprised by the balance sheet of Mrs Minister. We now need active labour market policies and not just good words, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Because it has now been mentioned twice: They have probably counted together a variety of achievements, but a corona thousand has not yet been decided upon in my knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It would be high time for the real performance providers to get him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you talked about your father today. I believe the story and also that it has moved your family so much because you see it, but precisely because of that I ask you, I appeal to you that you also hear the employees of the ATB, because most of them are over 50, and most of them have chosen you, according to election analyses, whether we want it or not. These people are expecting something from you! I stop party politics, let's put it aside! We are all ready to make an effort together so that we can perhaps revive the sparks of hope that still exists. Get in touch with the works council! They have nothing against you. They need you to bring the location back to a good future together with you. Don't get out of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you do, however, Mr Bundeskanzler – and that remains – then that for me is a lack of respect for the skilled workers in Austria, a lack of respect for their performance, and I find such a behavior not only impolite, I honestly find it superfluous. If we want to achieve something together – and I think unemployment always invites to an extrapartial shoulder closure – then we are all required to move to do something and not just talk, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Take note that the market does not regulate everything, because this logic that you have been carrying in your DNA for so long has made real performance providers in this country not richer, but poorer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the ATB in Spielberg we see what happens: It is promised for years, and at the end of the day people will be left in the rain. That is not what we want, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They deserved a good future. Mrs Minister, we would have expected a lot more from you as a steward. Your own country party has been there to demonstrate, but unfortunately you have never seen us. I hope that's still changing. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amesbauer.]] In this context, I put in place a motion for a resolution to end an evil that has arisen there: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope and ask for approval, above all, from the top Irish Members, so that something like Spielberg can be saved from others. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:49]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20250	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. That is why we shall now proceed to the votes. I ask the political groups whether we can take part in the voting process or whether you wish for a short break in the sitting. The latter is not the case. That is what we shall come to the vote. Vote on the self-employed amendment 809/A(E) by Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues, on 'Approximately 1 million people are unemployed or in short-time work. Austria now needs protection from the 2. Termination wave. Don’t let people down, Federal Chancellor!” [[Call at the SPÖ:... abandoned!]] I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerald Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Treffsicherige Sparsame Kurzwerk'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues and colleagues, on “Justice for workers and taxpayers – no manager bonuses, no profit distributions and no tax tricks for companies in need of state aid”. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Michael Schnedlitz, colleagues on ‘the non-intakement of ‘Moria migrants’’. I ask those who agree to a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on 'New jobs'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on 'Women's policy priorities in labour market policy'. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on 'Free COVID-19 package'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Christoph Matznetter, ladies and gentlemen, on "Potential abuse of insolvency law for relocations abroad? “ Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:53:03]] Applications pursuant to § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20344	We now come to four requests for the implementation of first readings. I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to implement the popular desire “Asyl Europe-right”, 345 of the supplements, at first reading. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Furthermore, I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the popular desire ‘Smoke – NO’, 346 of the supplements, at first reading. Who is for this first reading? – This too is unanimously accepted. I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the popular desire for ‘Euratom exit from Austria’, 347 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Furthermore, I have a request in accordance with § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take at first reading the popular desire “Climate People’s Desire”, 348 of the Supplements. Who's for it? – This too is unanimously accepted. [[17:54:15]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2020-09-14-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00049_d7e20417	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 809/A(E) to 832/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will take place at 18.05 a.m., because the Croquis is not ready for the assignment meeting and the Parliament's Directorate will take about 10 minutes to prepare. This meeting is closed.
