ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u1	Mr President, in order to make progress even easier, I will refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u2	Prime Minister, I apologize for not being physically present. I'd like to say a few sentences anyway, to update my questions. They were filed a long time ago. My first question was about the list of constitutional articles. The coalition agreement announced that that list would be submitted. We've had to wait for it, but in the meantime there is. However, we have established two things. Firstly, when we questioned the ministers Verlinden and Clarinval about it, there was some uncertainty as to why Article 195 was included in that list. According to Mrs Verlinden, this is to make a major state reform possible. Mr Clarinval was less explicit on that point. The explanatory statement states that Article 195 has been inserted in order to allow a large round. It would be interesting if you could confirm that information. Secondly, we have established that there is a list of five articles which are subject to revision. When we read the coalition agreement, we actually expected that there would be more articles in it. For example, your coalition agreement says that there will also be a reflection exercise on the Senate. But the articles to reform the Senate are not on the list. Your coalition agreement, for example, says that a system with fewer members of parliament will be considered. But those articles aren't on the list either. There would also be fewer ministers. But that's not on the list. Prime Minister, are there two governmental agreements? Is there a coalition agreement for communication, where everything is in it, and an operational government agreement, with the things you will really do? Or is it really the intention to implement everything in the coalition agreement? I hope the second one applies. But I would like to know why the articles are not on the list. I also have a brief question about the preparation, implementation and follow-up of the state reform. We have seen that a number of things have already started. Now there is the relevant committee in Parliament. On the government side, however, I note that everything remains still. There are virtually no institutional staff in the Cabinets. The ministers do not really have any plans to implement the asymmetric policy contained in the government agreement. Hence my third question. Are there two government chords, one that you will perform and one for communication? Or will you effectively ensure that the asymmetric policy is implemented? You are, of course, the prime minister who is the guardian of the totality of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to address Mrs Pas's question on the Senate. I can formally deny that I wanted to interfere with the Senate's agenda. It is not up to the government to determine whether or not the Senate prepares an information report. However, as always, there have been contacts between ministers and Members of Parliament. I can confirm that I spoke with Senator Anciaux before the plenary in question in January to explain the timing and trajectory of the government in the area of institutional reform. I don't think I've done anything with that that daylight shouldn't be seen. Senator Anciaux himself announced in plenary that he had derived from the reactions of the other groups that his proposal would not get a majority. Then he himself asked for the continuance. I do not think it is unusual for me to give insight into what the government's timetable would be. With regard to the questions related to the preparation of the state reform, the government has adopted a pathway in which a broad democratic debate will be held with citizens, civil society and the academic world. The aim is to create a new state structure from 2024, with a more homogeneous and efficient division of powers, respecting the principles of subsidiarity and interpersonal solidarity. The Ministers for Institutional Reforms and Democratic Reforms have worked out a method and timetable, on which they have provided the necessary explanations in the Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Commission. I cannot add much to what she has already said in this House about the statements made by Minister Verlinden. In the host college, she pointed out the complexity of the current state structure and provided a number of alternatives, without, however, expressing a preference for a particular model. I strongly support this approach, in which we look without taboos at improvement proposals. The same applies to the statements made by Mr Calvo, who advocated a role for Parliament. The government has also taken note of the fact that the Chamber and the Senate have jointly established a joint committee, which was set up to evaluate state reforms. That, too, seems perfectly possible in the forthcoming process, albeit with the remark that it will remain the government that takes the lead in the process. With regard to the question on the list of constitutional articles, the two ministers of institutional reform provided Parliament with a provisional list. The list also contains an explanation, which I think is very clear. She's the government's message. Mr Loones, you are expecting a number of things that you do not see in it. As you know, this is a first communication on the subject. There will then be the dialogue platform. A second communication will be made on this subject at the end of the dialogue platform. As you know, there is also a third time when lists are approved. Ministers Verlinden and Clarinval will report on asymmetrical powers after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. My question dates back to 1 February 2021. It is true that we have already asked many questions to the Ministers for Institutional Reforms. There is still a lot of flou and little concrete about the timing. We have not yet had an answer to many questions about the timing of the Institutional Reform Ministers. Mr Prime Minister, I also note that your reply contains a number of contradictions. You say, on the one hand, that everything will be dealt with without taboos. You guarantee, on the other hand, all the interpersonal solidarity, read the transfers, which will be retained in 2024 anyway. It's a coincidence. There are still uncertainties. The answers to our questions to the Ministers for Institutional Reform on concrete timing and the way in which this will be dealt with in concrete terms remain flou. I will therefore continue to address them, because I understand that you will not give us any more specific answers. We will certainly follow closely the report on asymmetrical powers in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u5	Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for your clarity. You have clearly stated that the explanatory statement on the list of constitutional articles is the government's position. That explanatory statement states that Article 195 may be revised in order to allow for a major institutional exercise. Thank you for that clarity. Secondly, I had some expectations about what would be in that list, even though we know the government's ambition to supplement that list. We had that expectation for a specific reason, in particular an announcement in your own coalition agreement. It is remarkable that a whole series of things are being announced and that you are making progress in some of these matters, while you seem to be parking a different number of things up to some process step or to a dialogue platform saying that the government agreement can also be further operationalised on those points. I think that's a little weird. Thirdly, on asymmetry, it is interesting to learn that after the summer the ministers will present a list or a state of affairs. This is somewhat at odds with the statements made by those ministers themselves. When Mr Pas and I question the relevant ministers, they always refer them to their fellow ministers. The interesting thing about your answer is that you are now referring to the ministers for institutional reform. Perhaps the ministers should agree among themselves to make this division of labour more specific.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u6	Mr Gilissen apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u7	Mr President, I refer to my question, which I have already tabled at the beginning of May. I am sorry that we always have to wait so long for an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u8	Prime Minister, as my colleague pointed out, the questions were tabled in early May. On 4 May 2021, the Belnet network, which hosts several hundred public institutions, was subjected to a large-scale cyberattack that paralyzed many public services, including the House of Representatives. Prime Minister, a judicial inquiry is under way, but, regardless of this one, I asked you some questions at the time, some of which have received partial answers and others may still be relevant. What preventive measures are being taken to protect the network from such attacks? Are technical developments required to protect our institutions from further attacks? Are there any investments in this area? Has a technical assessment of the attack and its response been conducted? Can you share the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u9	Mr President, Mr Freilich, Mr Senesael, on the facts, on 4 May 2021, Belnet was the victim of a large-scale DDoS attack. The attack tried to destroy the network by overloading it. The network couldn't handle the big demand. That is why all the institutions connected to Belnet have been hampered. It concerns about 200 organisations, including universities, public institutions and research institutes. They were cut off from the Internet to a lesser or more extent. This translated into the fact that government websites were no longer accessible and, for example, students no longer had access to systems. Belnet immediately activated his crisis procedure and contacted the Cybersecurity Center to get control of the attack. That was the case by nightfall. About the type of attack I can tell you that such a DdoS attack is sent by a botnet, which is a network of globally infected devices controlled by a botnet administrator. Cyber criminals are spreading a botnet virus across the global grid. When a device is infected with a certain botnet virus, the machine is included in the network. So it is technically possible to mask from where the order is given, to launch the DdoS attack. With that, the DdoS attackers don't enter a system. So there's no access to the data. They use such an attack for several reasons. Usually that's to attract attention or to damage the victim's reputation. Due to the unavailability of the website, which is so often visited, such things stand out. Another reason is that the owner of a website or system could also suffer economic damage. Exceptionally, such an attack is also used to mask another attack. About the complaint and the attribution, I can inform you that Belnet filed a complaint with the Federal Computer Crime Unit. A judicial investigation was opened. The Public Prosecutor shall be responsible for the detection and prosecution of such offences. Prosecutor's magistrates conduct the criminal investigation, track down the cybercriminals, and claim a sentence against the suspects in court. The attribution of cyber attacks is a global challenge. The Internet offers many opportunities to remain anonymous. The attribution of a cyber attack with purely technical clues is often impossible for that reason. On 20 May 2021, the National Security Council therefore approved a diplomatic attribution procedure in addition to the new cybersecurity strategy, whereby Belgium can also allocate a malicious cyber activity via political and diplomatic means to a foreign actor, independent of the judicial investigation. Several non-technical elements, such as intelligence and geopolitical factors, are taken into account to attribute a cyber attack. There are currently no indications of a state actor behind the relevant DDoS attack. A botnet, a network of infected computers, can in fact be bought on the darknet. Anyone can buy that and the higher the price, the bigger it is. With regard to measures and investments, in order to avoid a denial of service attack, overload traffic must be filtered. Specialized systems can do this, but the most effective way to do this is to use partners to filter traffic before it reaches the target network. Belnet has immediately increased the capacity of its anti-DDOS system and is planning further extensions. On 20 May, the National Security Council approved the details of a national cybersecurity strategy 2.0. This is the framework for Belgium's cross-cutting approach to cyber threats and cyber opportunities for our country. This strategy must propel Belgium to the rank of the least vulnerable countries in Europe. The approval of the National Security Council marks Belgium's adoption of a new ambitious cybersecurity strategy. The plan is structured around six specific objectives: - strengthening the digital environment and confidence in it; - arming computer and network users and managers; - to protect organisations of vital interest from all cyber threats; - combating cyber threats; - to improve cooperation between public authorities, enterprises and universities; - to make a clear international commitment. The fight against cybercrime and cyber security investments are also one of the main pillars of our country's European Recovery Plan. It involves a total investment of an additional €79 million over the next few years, a considerable increase, bearing in mind that this year we will invest a total of €58.7 million in cybersecurity. We will significantly increase these investments in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It is good that more cyber security is being done. I can only welcome the fact that more work will also be done on cyberattribution. Perhaps that was ignored from a resolution I tabled on this in February, just to make cyberattribution possible, but I will take that up, because I am naturally pleased with the steps that are being taken. I hope that we in this country can truly evolve into a culture of cybersecurity. A few days ago, we heard several guest speakers in our committee about cybersecurity, including Miguel De Bruycker of the CCB, and these hearings show that there is no culture of cybersecurity in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u11	Prime Minister, thank you for this precise and comprehensive answer. I would just like to highlight positively the investments you have announced that will be made to ensure our cyber security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u12	Mr President, this is my fourth term of office in this House, and all this time I have heard commitments to review the costly and irresponsible regime which still leaves two full-time staff at the disposal of excellencies. A fair adjustment, because it is not only the staff who are available until the next election, but even until the next government is in the saddle. In this country, something like this could take a very long time. Mr Prime Minister, like your predecessors, I also asked you about this. Unlike your predecessors, you didn't commit yourself to anything concrete. However, we all know that you are making political and democratic renewal a priority in your coalition agreement. When I asked you about it a good six months ago, you replied that the government wants to make it a priority "to strengthen confidence in politics through democratic renewal. To this end, the government has made a series of concrete commitments in the government agreement, on which we want to start a discussion as a matter of priority. We do not, of course, want to avoid the wider debate, which may also include the situation of outgoing members of the government." In the meantime, we're over six months away. I would have liked to have heard from you whether the 'wide debate' within your government has been launched and whether this arrangement is being discussed. When will there be a detailed proposal to adapt the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 allowing the scheme in question? When will the scheme actually be abolished? I hope that it will no longer count for the many excellences that your current government has, because then the system will be very expensive. What former ministers and secretaries of state of the Michael and Wilmès governments are still using the scheme at this time? According to the latest state of play, nine of the 13 former excellencies eligible for the scheme actually relied on it. I would have liked to hear from you the current state of affairs and more information on the total cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u13	Mr President, I would like to reaffirm my reply from last time. As you know, the government is launching a wide-ranging debate with citizens on political renewal through the announced dialogue platform. Mrs Pas, as you yourself pointed out in your question, there are no taboos. The situation of outgoing government members will certainly be addressed. The government will then start working on the outcome of that dialogue platform. As far as current use is concerned, nine former government members do indeed appeal to this. It concerns former ministers Reynders, Goffin, Nonees, De Crem, Ducarme, De Block, Baquelaine, De Backer and Muylle. The current annual cost does not exceed EUR 484.892.14.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, I think it is a very disappointing answer. You are hiding behind a dialogue platform that still needs to be launched for something on which everyone agrees that it needs to be abolished. You say that the dialogue platform will not have taboos. As far as this arrangement is concerned, I think there is only a taboo with a particular government party that does not want to see it abolished. It is very unfortunate that you are sticking behind your previous answer, staying on the plains and not making any concrete commitment. You could have said perfectly that it is your ambition to ensure that this legislature ceases to exist. This is also behind the smokescreen of the dialogue platform. I am very curious to know what excuses they are going to find, but I find this a very disappointing way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Federal Internal Audit Service was established at KB on 4 May 2016. In addition to audits, the service also conducts forensic investigations into irregularities or abuses occurring in the FPS. Very positive is that they are also proactively looking for irregularities. In a written question I asked you about the amount of reports of irregularities or abuses received by the FIA over the past four years. As of early 2018, the service received 41 notifications, of which 18 were declared admissible. Ten of them came from 2020. For that year we notice a sudden increase in the notifications received, both the admissible and the inadmissible. In four cases, it was concluded that there have been effective integrity breaches, ranging from very mild forms to long-term persistent forms of fraud with substantial impact. This led to the recommendation to consider disciplinary measures or to file a criminal complaint. In three of the four cases, the recommendations were neatly followed. In order to better identify such infringements, a pilot project, called integrity audit, was launched last year. Mr Prime Minister, can you tell us why the recommendation was not followed once? What happens if the recommendations are not followed? We have seen a sudden increase in notifications in 2020. Do you have an explanation for that? How will the pilot project on an initial integrity audit be evaluated? What is the new methodology? Do you consider a possible further roll-out of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Goethals, I shall begin with your first question. The forensic investigation report may include, in addition to conclusions on whether federal officials have committed integrity violations, recommendations. These recommendations can be grouped into several categories. Firstly, there are the recommendations to take action in criminal or disciplinary matters. Secondly, there are the recommendations for concrete administrative correction in order to remove the consequences of identified infringements of integrity. Thirdly, there are the recommendations to take operational and structural measures to better manage certain integrity risks identified in the study. The Federal Internal Audit also provides for a follow-up of the measures taken, with the responsibility for monitoring the execution of the audit always being with the highest senior official of the federal service where the investigation took place. In the case of succession, confidentiality is always provided for because forensic investigations always involve the behaviour of individuals. In the one-off case referred to in the question, the forensic investigation was closed at the end of 2018. The Federal Internal Audit requested a follow-up status at the beginning of 2020. The reaction of the department concerned refers to major redeployments in the organisation, including the appointment of a new chairman, and calls for an internal consultation to be carried out first in order to organise a follow-up audit. This action has so far been ineffective. The Federal Internal Audit can only re-apply the procedural question in the service. The Federal Internal Audit is not legally in a position that allows him to insist on the implementation of the recommendations in a compelling manner. It is not possible to give a final explanation for the higher number of notifications in 2020. There are too many individual and ad hoc elements involved in each of the concrete cases that have given rise to a notification in order to give up a generalised cause. However, it is a justified hypothesis that the increase in 2020 reflects the fact that, after two years of operation, the Federal Internal Audit Department's forensic department has gained a greater awareness among its partners, namely government management, political leaders, judicial police and so on. Some of these partners may be convinced that independent forensic research can bring significant added value when suspicions of integrity violations appear within federal administrations. As regards your third question on evaluation, the following points were highlighted as a priority. Firstly, there is a genuine commitment to integrity in all areas of government. In reality, however, we do not always see concrete measures being taken. By means of integrity audits, management is made aware of the need to develop such a policy. Through the 360 degree analysis that such an integrity audit provides, management has an ideal starting point to make a maturity leap. Secondly, it has also been shown that such audits can also identify very concrete weaknesses in integrity monitoring. The final report of the pilot audit therefore included a significant number of concrete recommendations that the audited entity could start immediately. Thirdly, a potential trap that has also been identified is the fact that critical remarks about the way integrity risks are controlled are sometimes perceived unintentionally as critical of the personal integrity of the employees. That sometimes created unfounded and unnecessary resistance. The Federal Internal Audit takes this as an important lesson for future integrity audits. The first integrity audit was carried out on its merits with the Federal Government Audit Committee. The Federal Government Audit Committee has expressed a great appreciation of the approach and asked for the concept of integrity audit to be addressed during its annual seminar, where more structural issues are discussed. You also asked about the methodology. It starts from the idea that a sound and integrated integrity policy is one that has been developed in five interrelated dimensions, namely governance, risk assessment, control measures, research and corrective actions, and, finally, monitoring. The essence of the integrity audit is to evaluate the quality of each dimension of the audited service. A clear added value of the integrity audit has certainly been demonstrated and it is therefore the Federal Internal Audit's wish to continue rolling it out as a permanent part of its operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u17	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply, of which I have raised a great deal. I think it is a good idea to re-table my first question on why those recommendations were not followed, so that there may be a follow-up to my second question on the 2020 increase. I can imagine that there are a number of ad hoc elements that are difficult to evaluate, but the hypothesis you are making will be correct. There is a greater awareness of the services and it may be necessary to make it more known so that it can be rolled out in all services. I am pleased that the pilot project has been properly implemented. A good follow-up and evaluation is important. The methodology of how you took it is very clear. It's a good process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u18	Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a favor first. I also asked that question about Belnet in the previous sitting, but then I was asked to put it in writing in order to get an answer faster. I did it neatly then, but it's a little cynical that I'll have my answer even later than the people who didn't. Should the answer to my written question be sent a little more quickly, I am very grateful to you for that. I come to the question I would like to ask now. Hackers had free access to the FPS Home Office's computer systems for two years. The computer giant Microsoft carried out a security update in March 2021 and the Exchange servers running the email systems of thousands of companies turned out to be rather vulnerable. Whoever has access to Exchange can use the whole world as a playground. Also the FOD BIZa turned out to be affected. The CCB noted subtle traces of suspicious acts. The analysis showed that the attackers had been inside for over two years. Especially the purpose and the hidden character indicate espionage. In the past few months the back doors were closed in silence. Those who have access to the communication and internal data of BIZa infiltrate the central link for the adjustment and security of Belgium. After all, all our police services, the organisation of the elections, crisis management, the foreign affairs, the distribution of identity cards, the crossroads databases, etc. are covered by the FOD BIZa. Thus, a hack at that site is by definition a very serious incident, and two months after the leak was announced, 113 companies and organisations are still vulnerable to these attacks. Very striking, also the DOD would be there, according to the CEO of the security company Secutec. I have the following questions, Prime Minister. Can you guarantee that the back gates through which the espionage was performed at the FOD State Department have been cleaned up? That cleaning operation would have cost about 6.5 million euros. Is there any chance that hackers have installed viruses, the so-called logic bombs, in order to activate them remotely at the right time? If such viruses are activated during a major crisis, they can ensure that we cannot manage crises. Is there a plan B for us? Do we have 100 % guarantee today that no sensitive data has been stolen? Or is it said in the first place to calm the moods? In the meantime, we have had a number of hearings, which have given us a little more reassurance in this area. In September last year there was the Zhenhua data scandal, a gigantic list that the Chinese had built from open sources. In addition to millions of others, there are 656 Belgians on that list, including you, Prime Minister. Was it the hackers to do to collect data from Belgians in order to blackmail or manipulate those people with secret information? What is your response to Secutec's CEO's remark that our defense is highly vulnerable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, I refer to the text of my question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u20	Mr President, first of all, on the type of attack, it was a very complex attack in which techniques were used to infiltrate a network unnoticed and to stay there for as long as possible. The intention is not to disrupt the system, but rather to gather information. The CCB therefore considers the probability that the counterparty left logic bombs in the network to be very small. Such logic bombs aim to carry out destructive actions at some point, and that does not seem to have been the intention of the attack. In terms of measures, the CCB has provided assistance to Home Affairs to fully identify the extent of the attack as well as the remedial action. The CCB described a plan of approach and supported the FOD and an external partner in its implementation. The access for the attacker was stopped, malware was removed and important information was secured. All systems were thoroughly scanned for all forms of malicious code. Such complex attacks are often called advanced persistent threats and require permanent vigilance. These APTs are characterized by the use of specific tactics and techniques and the attackers regularly adapt their method. Because such sophisticated attacks can never be 100% sure, the FPS Home Affairs network is completely renewed. Regarding the impact on other public administrations, the CCB has compiled an information package containing the strategic, operational and technical information collected during the incident and subsequently shared with the other public administrations. On this basis, these administrations were able to verify whether they were also victims of similar intrusion. In parallel, network data from government networks were checked for indications of malicious traffic that can be linked to the cyber incident at Home Affairs. It could be concluded that there are no indications that other public services have been impacted. The services of the FPS Home Office have filed a complaint with the judicial authorities. The technical elements and threat-related information collected by the CCB were shared with the relevant services. In order not to harm the judicial investigation, no further details are shared. The National Security Council of May adopted for the first time an attribution procedure that regulates the processes to formally assign a malicious cyber activity to a certain actor. That attribution is a diplomatic and political process independent of the judicial investigation and coordinated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Minister Verlinden has already indicated that she has started this attribution procedure, well aware that attributing is a particularly difficult process. It is certain that there was no classified information on the impacted network. There are also separate systems for crisis management, such as the Incident & Crisis Management System, which operates on separate systems. Nor did the CCB find any indication that the attacker had access to the systems of the National Register. The login did have targeted access to the mailbox of a number of people. For this purpose, the personal risks were assessed individually by the Home Office and individual support is offered. The CCB considers it highly unlikely that the attacker would have manipulated the results of the last election. The systems used during the 2019 elections were separated from the FPS Home Affairs network that was impacted by the cyber attack. Several cybersecurity tests were carried out on the electoral systems in the run-up to the elections and the specific organisational and technical measures on such systems were extended. With regard to the national cyber strategy and the investments that are taking place, I refer to my answer to the previous question. About the last element, as far as I've been able to have it checked, my name is not on the relevant Zhenhua list.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u21	That's comforting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u22	Mr Prime Minister, that is indeed reassuring. Then the source I consulted was wrong. One should not believe everything that is in the newspapers, except when it is in the interest of Limburg. Then it's true. Thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u24	Mr President, this question is related to the previous question. However, I would not just like to talk about extra investment, but also about what is already being done effectively today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u25	It is impossible to express the global investment budget for cybersecurity in absolute figures. For example, investments in cyber security which are part of the protection of networks and systems and investments to maintain or expand the capacity of services and specific cyber expertise should already be distinguished. In total, for this year, we budgeted the joint efforts of these services at around EUR 60 million. Specifically for the CCB, this amounts to EUR 15 million. As regards your second question, on 20 May 2021, the National Security Council approved the details of the national cyber strategy. This strategy is the framework for a cross-cutting approach in Belgium on cyber threats and opportunities. This should make Belgium one of the least vulnerable countries in Europe. With this approval, we are making an important choice to ensure that we can provide the necessary protection and be sufficiently ambitious. It is based on six specific objectives, which I have already mentioned in a previous reply. It is clear that investment will be increased, partly through the European recovery plan that our country has submitted. Cybersecurity is an important element of this. It concerns an amount of EUR 79 million. Cyber safety is a shared responsibility. The relevant public administrations use cyberexperts with specialised knowledge in their respective domains. The CCB shall monitor, coordinate and monitor the implementation of national cybersecurity policies. It manages the various cyber projects and ensures coordination between the services concerned, the public authorities and the private or academic sector. In cooperation with the national crisis centre, the CCB shall ensure crisis management in the event of cyber incidents. For administrations and public institutions, the CCB disseminates standards, guidelines and safety standards. The CCB makes the population aware of the main cyber threats and how to protect against them. Specific programmes with public and private entities increase expertise in the cybersecurity domain. The CCB also has the task of coordinating the Belgian representation in international cyber security fora, monitoring international obligations and proposing the national position in this area. As part of the CCB, the Computer Emergency Response Team is responsible for detecting, observing and analysing online security issues such as cyber threats, vulnerabilities in ICT systems or cyber incidents. CERT.be informs the public, businesses, administrations and organisations of vital importance on a permanent basis. CERT.be is also the central hub for the exchange of cybersecurity information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u26	Prime Minister, it is important that cybersecurity should also be on the European table. Last week we had a very interesting hearing here, with people from Europol among others. What struck me is that there is also something like a Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce. However, our country is not represented in this, something which I find very strange. I specifically asked for this at the time, and it seems that Europol has already asked our country to participate several times. Of course there is a certain cost involved, but I would like to make a warm appeal to think about that. Europol hopes that we will do so, and I believe that in the meantime we will participate as 16 European countries. Maybe we should work on that in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u27	That's an interesting comment. I'll have it analyzed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u28	Mr Hedebouw is not present for his question No. 55018636C. Debates of the European Parliament 55018655C by Mr De Roover has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 55018698C by Mr Lacroix is without object as he is not present. Debates of the European Parliament 55018847C by Mrs Ponthier and 55018883C by Mr Buysrogge are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u29	Mr Thiébaut, following the 2016 Cooperation Agreement, the representatives of the French Community followed the design work of the Belgian section and carried out by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), who is the project manager. By September 2017, the entire design was completed with a view to establishing a school for 600 students, with an area of 5,400 square meters at a maximum cost of 12,415,500 euros. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has launched the single-source market, using the same contractor as other educational sections. In September 2018, he announced an increase of $4.5 million, justified by inflation in construction and changes in exchange rates. The explanations were considered unclear and not transparent. Representatives of the French Community did not have access to the data. Both federal ministerial offices and the French Community rejected the U.S. request. Army Corps of Engineers. Other solutions were sought, proposing a change of project manager. The NATO Support and Acquisition Agency (NSPA) was contacted, but could not guarantee that the allocated budget would be sufficient. The French Community did not wish to resume the project because of a lack of staff resources and because it could not guarantee that the deadlines would be met either. In March 2020, contact with the US was resumed. Army Corp of Engineers to relaunch the project on the basis of a competitive open market, with closed envelope. An update of the design was necessary for an additional cost of around 30 000 euros, which the federal and the French Community agreed to share in July 2020. However, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers reiterated in January 2021 the budget increase of 4 to 5 million euros, then rejected last April the concept of closed envelope. Since then, the project has been awaiting a joint political decision by the Federal and the French Community. Defence, the SHAPE headquarters reconstruction project manager, requested that temporary pavilions be evacuated by the end of 2022. This period is likely to be extended from six to twelve months or more. Coordination is scheduled to take place next September. There are two options. According to the first, new Belgian sections would be built very quickly with the budget allocated or thanks to a financial contribution from the French Community, in which case a new project manager would have to be appointed, the design adapted, a new planning permit applied for, the market launched, etc. According to the second possibility, the temporary pavilions would be moved to a new site of the Camp de Casteau, pending the reconstruction of the Belgian section. However, an additional cost of at least €3.7 million has been estimated, without being able to guarantee that this move will not damage the structural elements and would therefore be feasible and payable. This option, therefore, seems unlikely to me. A consultation between the Federal and the French Community is planned this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic538x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for all this clarification. I will of course come back to you to obtain information about the progress of this dossier. I also intend to ask some of my colleagues from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation.
