ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u1	Mrs. Depoorter cannot be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u2	The launch of the new cooperation programmes for governmental cooperation is extremely important. In recent years, new portfolios have been launched with Benin, Senegal, Guinea, Rwanda and Burkina-Faso. For various reasons, this was not the case with the nine other partner countries and we now need to make an effective catch-up. I can inform you that I have already started preparations for a new cooperation book with Palestine and Niger. In addition, I also launched a new type of thematic portfolios that will include projects in different partner countries. This is a thematic portfolio on environment and climate in the Sahel region and a second on social protection in the Great Lakes region. In all these processes, the first preparatory steps have been taken and I expect to be able to send an instruction letter to Enabel in the short term. Enabel can then start with the further, concrete elaboration. When re-launching the programming, I give priority to the partner countries where the implementation of the current programmes is advanced and where the political context and dialogue allow for a new cooperation programme. The latter is not yet the case in Burundi, despite the cautious signs of greater openness on the part of the Burundian Government. In order to ensure the continuity of our support for the people, my services are studying the possibilities of extending the ongoing programmes of governmental cooperation in Burundi. These were previously reoriented towards direct support from the population. During the dialogue with the Burundian partners, together with the other European donors, we will continue to press for concrete progress in the areas of human rights and political space. In Mali, we have to take into account the fact that there is a temporary transition government in power. We will check whether a short bridging program is possible. With the DRC and Uganda, extensive transition programmes were drawn up under the impetus of my predecessor, the implementation of which was recently launched. The launch of a new multiannual programme will be reviewed later in the year. Finally, in Morocco, Mozambique and Tanzania, the implementation rate of the current programmes is still too low to start with the new programming cycle. During the various stages of the preparation process of a new cooperation programme, the analysis of the fragility of the partner country concerned is given careful consideration in the selection of priorities and modalities of implementation. I will also always ask Enabel to identify the appropriate operational partners for implementation, who can assist the Agency. Achieving the stated development goals is a priority here. The list of partner countries for governmental development cooperation will be reviewed in the course of the legislative period, but I now give priority, in the short term, to restarting programme cycles in the current partner countries. In any case, when reviewing the list of partner countries, I would like to continue to focus on the least developed countries and fragile states.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u3	Madam Minister, it is useful to have regular updates here in Parliament of our bilateral cooperation programmes, from government to government. The choice of fragile countries is not evident. This indeed means that parts of programmes sometimes have to be put on hold or stopped. That is a pity, of course, because the resources are there. That is why I am rather charmed by an approach that you mentioned at the beginning, namely to work thematically, across regions, which makes it easier to switch from one country to another. In the long term, we cannot maintain the current practice. The resources are available, but the flexibility to move from one programme to another is too limited. It could perhaps be considered in the evaluation of partner countries to work with regions. If it is true that certain programmes cannot be implemented as a result of conflicts, human rights, corruption, then we do not have to leave the money behind, but we can switch to another country, with another partner. I will therefore ask you regularly what the updated state of affairs is, how far the evaluation is going and in what direction we could work. In any case, we can certainly support a thematic approach with regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depoter's 55013558C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the fifth session of the United Nations Committee on the Status of Women, the conclusions will be negotiated on the following priority themes: the full and effective participation of women in decision-making in the public sphere, the elimination of violence, the achievement of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls. The adoption of these conclusions is by consensus of all members of the United Nations. The European Union shall conduct the negotiations on behalf of the Member States. This means that a pre-established European Union position serves as a basis for EU negotiators in New York. In the past year, opposition to the gender equality agenda has come from conservative countries that question the acquis of gender equality. This was also the case in the EU where Poland and Hungary have been defending this conservative position for years. In coordination with countries that share the same views on the issue, Belgium is still actively involved in the EU negotiations and advocates for the most progressive final outcome possible, in particular with regard to gender equality, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Our country is also actively contributing to the global negotiations within the framework of the European Union. Belgium advocates, inter alia, for an inclusive and holistic approach to women's participation in all areas. The other important aspects highlighted by Belgium are the fight against gender-based violence and structural inequalities, the agenda "Women, peace and security", the important role of civil society, recognition of the existence of different forms of families, social protection and the role of girls and young women. With regard to the strategy to be adopted, following the election of Joe Biden as President of the United States and the revocation of the Mexico City Policy, Belgium will continue to defend, in all international forums, a progressive mink and a strong language in favour of gender equality and health and sexual and reproductive rights. Belgium opposes the attacks orchestrated by the conservative countries and has coordinated with its like-minded partners, in particular through the Nexus network, to defend the acquis and promote its concepts in the actions of the various multilateral organisations it finances and with which it works actively. In addition, Belgium continues to implement its third National Action Plan "Women, Peace and Security" 2017-2021, which is applicable to the partner countries of the Belgian Development Cooperation and whose priority is to combat all forms of violence against women and girls, and more specifically sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u6	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Although I doubt it, it is still useful to hear that Belgium remains at the forefront of a progressive position in the European debate. We know that there are many attacks in the European Union. Belgium must therefore remain as mobilized as possible. Since the issue of sexual and reproductive rights was not strictly sensu on the agenda, I imagine that negotiations were all the more difficult. We look forward to seeing what this will give us in the coming days. I think your firm was represented. With SENSOA, we were able to consult the IPPF, which reminded us that macho politicians now covered almost 50% of the world's population and that there was a major challenge to defend Belgium's position internationally. I thank you, therefore, for reassuring us in this regard. We will present this theme on the occasion of other questions relating to the operationalisation of the Belgian programme. In any case, I thank you for the work done upstream.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have not yet questioned you about this legislature, so this is a nice reunion. I did send you a letter to wish you good luck, and you know I mean it. I have a question about Yemen's story. It is clear that humanitarian aid is being given to the Yemeni people, especially in view of the fire in a refugee camp this week. The previous governments have always done the same. How exactly will the 5 million euros of aid be provided? We are all looking very closely at the situation there, with this terrible civil war, yet another in the Middle East, and we feel a great deal of solidarity for the people. However, I have commented on social media when reporting on this because I personally am disturbed by the hypocrisy that exists. It doesn't exist on the Flemish side, so you certainly don't have to feel attracted to it. Flanders has been ahead for years when it comes to supply attestations and weapons permits, but this is not the case in Wallonia. I always look with great eyes at how money is being given to Yemen, knowing that the Walloon government is supplying weapons to FN Herstal through weapons permits to the Royal Guard of Saudi Arabia. Those weapons are still popping up in Yemen. We shouldn't be getting silly about that. This is proven in many international reports. That makes it very difficult for me to bear the fact that we are giving EUR 5 million of tax money to Yemen and, on the other hand, we are financing and even supplying arms to carry it forward. This is done through the Walloon government and through parties that are also part of the federal government, such as Ecolo. Ecolo, who is always ready to give moral lessons to the whole world, and the PS, also a champion in moral lessons, and the MR. They give weapons to the Saudis used in the civil war in Yemen, causing more deaths and injuries. Then we spend taxpayers' money to help the victims. I find that to be an improbable cynicism. I'd like to discuss this with you, Madam Secretary. I would have liked to have heard your views on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u8	Mr Francken, first of all thank you for the congratulations. I haven't had a chance to speak to you personally, because the corona measures do not make it clear that our normal meetings will continue. We all miss the physical visit. Let me outline the situation in Yemen. More than 20 million people depend on humanitarian aid. According to the UN, at least 5 million people would be on the verge of famine. Furthermore, 16 million people do not know when their next meal will come. We must not look away from that and that is why I took part in the donor conference for Yemen on 1 March. As usual, the donor conference was organised by the UN, in cooperation with Switzerland and Sweden. Additional funding for the humanitarian crisis in Yemen is necessary because there is a large shortage of resources and because there is a threat of acute famine. That was also the case last year. This year, the UN indicated that it needed around EUR 4 billion to meet the needs of the Yemeni people. In the end, EUR 1.7 billion was raised. Belgium released €5 million for the humanitarian crisis in Yemen. I have chosen to provide this support through the humanitarian fund in Yemen coordinated by the UN. Through this fund, funds can be released quickly and effectively and redistributed to the humanitarian organisations active in the field, including local organisations. Of course, humanitarian aid will not resolve the conflict at the root of this crisis. A political solution is therefore necessary. International humanitarian law must be respected and a ceasefire throughout the country is therefore necessary. I also took part in the donor conference earlier this month to show that we have not forgotten the people of Yemen after six years of conflict, that we do not want this crisis to be forgotten and that we will never tolerate hunger being used as a weapon. Belgium has repeatedly argued in the UN Security Council for unrestricted access to humanitarian aid, respect for international humanitarian law, protection of children and a ceasefire throughout the country. Belgium is no longer a member of the Security Council but will continue to make this plea. More than humanitarian aid, the Yemeni people need the silence of weapons. It is therefore my view that we must do everything we can to ensure that Belgian weapons, both of Flemish and Walloon, do not end up in the conflict in Yemen. In the run-up to the donor conference, I had an inspiring conversation with Muna Luqman, a very strong Yemeni woman. They are women like those who inspire me and make the difference, they create hope in this very dramatic situation. She said that our children deserve a better future and I am convinced that we can contribute to that future. The people of Yemen must not be forgotten. Mr Francken, you know that approving licences is a matter for the regions. I have given you my position and I will use every opportunity to make that clear. I am in favour of policy coherence, because we cannot provide aid on the one hand and maintain the conflict on the other. That is why I call on the regions to take this into account as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u9	Madam Secretary, your honesty and your answer grace you. I have never had a real discussion with you about development cooperation and how it is best organised. I hope you might be able to meet my sister briefly, or maybe that's already happened. She'll tell me if she does. I think it is important to continue to give our humanitarian aid to areas in war situations, especially when those areas are close by. The Middle East is close. We have often made a mistake, and certainly with the Syrian civil conflict, which has led, among other things, to a very serious asylum crisis and to attacks by returned IS fighters. We must realise that. I therefore support the support given to Yemen in its own right. However, I think it is important to have the courage to sue for a piece of hypocrisy. It is completely inappropriate that those who always teach great moral lessons here, through the Walloon government, only shareholder of the weapons factories FN Herstal, indirectly supply weapons to the war in Yemen. On the one hand, federal tax money is being distributed for aid to the victims, on the other hand, the Walloon Government makes a lot of money in selling arms to the Saudi Guard. I think that's an unlikely hypocrisy. I will therefore continue to raise this issue, even though I understand that those concerned do not like to hear it. Madam Minister, I understand that you will do the same, even though, of course, you respect the institutional reality of this country. This is not at federal level, but there are consultation committees and other meetings. It's about your coalition partners, by the way. Since we live in a participation, the presidents are the real bosses. So you know perfectly where to bring that up. You have made that commitment today, and I will continue to question you about it. In my eyes and in the eyes of my party, that must stop immediately. Let's make that very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u10	Minister, I am asking you this question as part of the World Day to Combat Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). During that day, civil society again focused on this fundamental violation of women's rights and integrity. This February 6 reminds us that there are still too many victims of this practice in the world. WHO estimates that more than 200 million young girls and women, still alive, have been subjected to sexual mutilation in 30 African countries, the Middle East and Asia, where such practices are concentrated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u11	Madam President, Madam de Laveleye, today, female genital mutilation is unfortunately still common in some 30 countries in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. They violate the human rights of girls and women and violate their physical integrity. They reflect gender inequalities and violence against girls and women. Gender equality and the rights of children and women are among the priority dimensions of Belgian development cooperation. I am committed to making gender equality a key priority and to considering reproductive sexual rights as a cross-cutting priority. In order to ensure sustainable change, it is essential to involve public authorities at the national and local levels as well as communities to prohibit the practice of female genital mutilation. Real teamwork is needed: communities, schools, local governments, international agencies, religious leaders, women and men, NGOs and bilateral agencies. Belgium is a contributor and member of several United Nations bodies, institutions and conventions for which the fight against female genital mutilation is a central issue. These include UNICEF, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the World Health Organization (WHO), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. Belgian Cooperation supports the overall mandate of UNFPA and UNICEF through an annual contribution to the general funds with €9 million and €15 million respectively. To this end, UNFPA and UNICEF have led the largest international programme to accelerate the abandonment of female genital mutilation. With regard to the budget allocated between 2017 and 2019, almost 30 million euros have been specifically committed to sexual and reproductive health and rights for ongoing interventions. Belgium finances bilateral programmes on sexual and reproductive health and rights via Enabel. We are also contributing to the financing of UNFPA Supplies, which affects 17.9 million women annually in 46 countries, including 12 of Belgium's partner countries. In addition, Belgium funds interventions specifically to combat female genital mutilation through non-governmental cooperation with partners such as GAMS and the NGO Le Monde, according to women. These specialised Belgian organisations are subsidized through non-governmental cooperation. Since its last management contract, Enabel has had autonomy in determining which partners are best placed to implement bilateral cooperation programmes. The same applies to multilateral cooperation and specialized agencies such as UNFPA and UNICEF, but also to non-governmental organizations. My administration is proud to encourage the exchange of expertise and practices, particularly within Because Health and its working group on sexual and reproductive health and rights. In addition, exchanges of experience at the level of the Gender and Development Advisory Council also allow the various Belgian actors to have access to information on topics related to gender inequalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u12	Madam Minister, it is interesting to know what are the different levels (multilateral, bilateral, direct) which, alongside civil society, are actively fighting. Today, 200 million women have been subjected to mutilation, and as many women as possible are at risk of being subjected to it. A significant mobilization on our part is therefore necessary. It is interesting to note that the European Parliament has just put forward a resolution which encourages the Member States to make further progress, if possible, on these issues. I would like to return for a moment to the question of the link between Enabel and civil society. Indeed, I understood that there was a structural problem which meant that, for some pools of experts, the agency had access only to academic experts and that it was, in a way, deprived of the field expertise of civil society actors. It may be necessary to verify that all interactions between specialised civil society and the specialized actors of Cooperation are as optimal as possible. You mentioned in particular the GAMS, which is both active in the field, in West Africa, and in our home. His expertise could also be very useful to Enabel. I wonder to what extent there is no structural problem that your services could address. Let us continue to fight from Belgium and Belgian Cooperation against this scourge, which continues to persist!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u13	Minister, in October, India and South Africa submitted a request to the World Trade Organization (WTO) for a temporary exemption from intellectual property rules for covid vaccines and essential medical equipment for the duration of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) pandemic. This would allow for a rapid increase in production and a reduction in manufacturing costs. The request is supported by more than a hundred countries – mostly low- and middle-income – but a handful of rich countries refuse. These include the United States, Japan, Canada and the European Union. By blocking the suspension of patents, it puts the issue of human rights at the forefront. On Friday, 19 February, we learned that the European Union would double its contribution to the VOCAX system to EUR 1 billion. You announced in committee in early February your plea for a relaxation of the European Union's attitude on intellectual property rules for covid vaccines. As a result, the European Union has engaged in an intensive dialogue with the supporters of the derogation. In addition, on Tuesday, February 23, 2021, a WTO working meeting was held to discuss India's and South Africa's request, which is expected to reach a decision on March 10-11. Minister, what is the status of the dialogue between the supporters of a waiver of the TRIPS Agreement and the European Union? Is the European Union prepared to relax its position on the subject? What is the strategic plan of the WHO call for solidarity for the sharing of knowledge and intellectual property, which Belgium has co-signed? What position did Belgium hold at the WTO working meeting on Tuesday, 23 February 2021? Following the announcement by the European Union to double its contribution to VOCAX, does Belgium intend to increase its contribution to the VOCAX system? If so, will it be on the budgets of Development Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u14	Minister, these question-and-answer sessions are still a little frustrating because some members of the commission throw balloons and then run away. We cannot therefore trade. When I was Minister of Defence, peace was my priority. I told you. Even though I'm a Walloon, I'm against arms sales to some countries. There are also sales of weapons in other forms coming from the north of the country, as the minister said. We sell weapons everywhere and we have to regulate that. That said, the Council of State itself has broken three Walloon licenses in recent weeks. This means that everything is not lost. I allowed myself to say this because I was unable to reply to Mr Franken. I'll do it in other ways. The questions have just been asked by Mrs de Laveleye, so there is no need to recontextualize and rest the questions. I would just like to point out that a few weeks ago, before a European Council, I asked the Prime Minister, in the public sitting of the House on topical issues, whether he would actually defend the position at European level to make this vaccine a universal public good, relaying what the Secretary-General of the United Nations was asking for. The Prime Minister repeats at each meeting of the Council for European Affairs that "Belgium, you Madam Minister, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are working in this direction". This does not seem easy at European level. There's always some reluctance. But in asking you the question, I am convinced of your answer, namely that you will probably continue to fight against the great powers to ensure that this vaccine is finally accessible to all populations in countries and not only in countries where there are companies or because of patents. Barriers must be removed to give priority to health. Thank you, Madame de Laveleye, for asking the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u15	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen have adequately outlined the context. The virus has no boundaries and unfortunately the same applies to the mutations. That is why, through the European Commission, our country actively supports the COVAX initiative for which you have already allocated EUR 4 million. Belgium is also part of the COVAX Advisory Group which assists the COVAX Secretariat. The first COVAX deliveries to Congo and Palestine are a fact. However, the initiative only covers the vaccinations of health workers and the most vulnerable, accounting for around 20% of the population in the countries that are part of the initiative. So more is needed to crush the pandemic. Today, WTO members are gathering to discuss the Waiver proposal from India and South Africa. That proposal provides for a temporary lifting of the patent protection of the COVID-19 vaccines until a global immunity is achieved. So far, more than 100 countries have supported the proposal at the WTO. The Belgian coalition Right 2 Cure, involving citizens, various NGOs, mutualities and trade unions, asks Belgium in an open letter to support its position in the WTO. Madam Secretary, did you receive this letter? What's your reaction to this? What position will Belgium take at the forthcoming WTO meeting? What is the status of the COVAX initiative? What role can Belgium play in the COVAX advisory group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u16	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for these important questions. Colleagues, thank you for these important questions. The issue of access by developing countries to the vaccine is absolutely crucial. It is a moral imperative of international solidarity. It's just common sense, too. No one will be protected until everyone is protected. The virus doesn't stop at borders. That is why the deeply inequitable access to vaccination worldwide is unacceptable. Belgian Development Cooperation has implemented as many measures and policies as possible to respond to the covid crisis. First of all, strengthen our policy of supporting our partner countries to deal with the disastrous economic and social consequences of the pandemic, even in countries that have suffered little directly from the virus but where the socio-economic consequences are equally disastrous. Secondly, we contributed €4 million in 2021 to the VOCAX initiative to finance the supply of vaccines for developing countries. This Belgian contribution is in addition to the contribution of the European Union. This commitment is finally beginning to bear fruit. Vaccines have been delivered to Ghana, Ivory Coast, DRC, Rwanda and other African countries. But the vaccine is not enough. This is why Belgian Development Cooperation is working to strengthen the capacity of partner countries in the health sector. You are referring to the Indian and South African proposal for the TRIPS Agreement on intellectual property. First of all, as you know, it is the European Commission that expresses the European Union's positions in WTO bodies. When the subject was discussed within the European Union, Belgium strongly advocated that the concerns of these countries be taken seriously. We have requested and obtained a positive dialogue. We also support the availability of the WTO Secretariat and the European Commission to assist countries wishing to apply compulsory licences under the TRIPS Agreement. We also support initiatives to voluntarily share knowledge, data and intellectual property to combat the pandemic, including the C-TAP initiative launched by WHO and Costa Rica. That is what we are doing in this emergency situation! I am convinced that, at the political level, we will also have to hold a medium-term debate with the pharmaceutical sector and the academic community on the lessons to be learned from the covid-19 crisis. In the long term, we must arrive at a common global approach to the development, production and accessibility of vaccines in times of pandemics. A "global public good" approach is needed in this debate, in particular to adapt, if necessary, existing legal instruments. I will plead within the government for our country, which is very active in the pharmaceutical sector, to set the tone and take the lead in this international debate. People's health and well-being must be our primary goal. The multilateral system for the protection of intellectual property, as well as all international structures and mechanisms, must be put at the service of that objective. In the meantime, the path of dialogue is being followed intensively, which we can only welcome. The new Director-General of the WHO, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has shown that the sharing of technology and knowledge by pharmaceutical companies is already possible on a voluntary basis. As far as the WTO meeting this week is concerned, it does not focus on the TRIPS Waiver as opposed to a number of more recent meetings, but rather on the regular issues of the Council. As already indicated, the first vaccines were already delivered via COVAX, including in Africa. Volumes are in principle sufficient to vaccinate 3% of the national population, including priority groups as health personnel. In the coming days and weeks, more deliveries to African COVAX-AMC partner countries will follow. The deliveries concern doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which was produced in India. In addition, additional distributions of 1.2 million doses of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine are initiated, through an agreement between GAVI, COVAX and Pfizer. The outlook is mainly for the first two quarters of 2021. More updates are expected at the end of this week. As a member of the Advisory Council, Belgium shall be regularly informed of the progress of the COVAX facility. The AMC Engagement Group is advisory and in other words has a limited mandate. Belgium monitors the equal distribution of vaccines within a Team Europe approach and supports the GAVI-COVAX approach of joint negotiations with companies and countries. Participation in the advisory group gives Belgium a direct source of information and also shows our international commitment. Belgium stresses the importance of technical assistance to partner countries to receive and distribute vaccines in good conditions. This concerns both the legislative and regulatory capacity and the operational capacity to roll out a mass vaccination campaign. We must not forget that we often talk about fragile states and that the whole framework around them is also important, with sufficient support for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. Three weeks ago, you had already given a positive message about Belgium's position in the negotiations on vaccines. I am horrified to hear that since February, seven countries have concentrated 80 per cent of the doses given while 130 countries have not yet administered any. We hear that it's moving forward, that the vaccines are coming. I would like to commend the work you are doing with the government to make the urgent need to lift patents for a fixed period of time to give access to more massive vaccine production to the less favoured countries. One must be able to say when one is happy with the position of his country. You point out that the arm with the pharmaceutical industry is going to be extremely hard. We must therefore organize ourselves well with the allied countries on this issue. It is known that governments rarely have the last word in the face of large pharmaceutical companies. I am horrified to hear that Pfizer is considering $15 billion in vaccine benefits in 2021. There's something so shocking and unfair that we're going to have to organize ourselves seriously. Little Belgium is not going to be able to do the job alone in the face of this kind of fight. Minister, please keep your voice in that direction. You have our full support. I hope that we will get satisfaction in making this vaccine a global public good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u18	Minister, there is no doubt about the support provided. This has just been said: this crisis is revolting. It reveals a series of realities between the countries that hold the companies and those that depend on them, those that pay dearly to have the vaccines in order to appear like those that first immunize, leaving others to die, even within their own neighbourhood. We'll have to learn from it. As in other debates, Belgium has always been at the forefront. Let us consider anti-personnel mines and a whole series of international fighting. I believe that we are able to carry a whole series of battles that are worth it by our experience and our history. This fight is worth it. We are known to have a few large pharmaceutical companies in our territory; we must first convince them to make the efforts to lift the patents that they have been able to obtain thanks to the important subsidies from the public authorities, without falling into the face of a threat of relocation. Because there are threats of relocation that are real. The debate is not easy. Belgium alone cannot act to succeed. But it can be a driving force, as it has often been in areas like these. With the support of Parliament, because texts and resolutions have been tabled: let us help the government to show that we can be the initiator of a change of mindset after this crisis which we will have to learn very quickly. It is a question of health and solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I agree with the colleagues. I think that the big policy question we need to answer in the short and long term is what role the government can or will play in relation to companies when it comes to, among other things, the production of these vaccines. It is clear to our group. There must be a paradigm-shift in this area. That debate must be conducted for us. I understand from the debate at European level with the Heads of State or Government two weeks ago that we are being very cautious in the short term, that we want to increase the number of doses produced as quickly as possible and that we want to maintain good cooperation with the companies, because we depend on them. The President of the Commission has said that cooperation with companies must remain voluntary at the moment. That is also the intention of the HERA Incubator. It states quite literally that the Commission intends to support the production of vaccines for new variants and to develop a special voluntary licensing mechanism to facilitate technology transfer. This is also confirmed by the Heads of State or Government. We are therefore sticking to voluntary cooperation at the moment. Only, within the framework of the WTO, had a technology pool been set up last year for the corona crisis. This system would allow new technology, data and licences to be shared on a voluntary basis and for remuneration. In this way, it was thought that production capacity could be expanded much faster. This system is also used in the fight against HIV. However, it appears that no company has decided to participate in that technology pool, so that remains an empty box at the moment. So that volunteering doesn't really work. We've got a big problem there. Access to a life-saving vaccine should not depend on whether one has much or little money. That debate must be held for us, and the debate with the pharmaceutical sector is very important. Our group believes that Belgium should play a leading role in this, so I welcome the work you are doing there. We have also signed a call for solidarity for sharing knowledge and data in the fight against the coronavirus. That call really needs to be implemented now, and I hope that we can count on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u20	Madam Chair, my written text supported my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but I would like to hear the point of view and the return of the Minister of Cooperation on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u21	Madam President, Minister, unfortunately this is a similar question in the same category. On 22 February at 10.00 a.m., an hour before a planned visit by the Belgian, Spanish and Canadian consuls, the Israeli army arrived with bulldozers in Khirbet Humsa al-Fawqa, a Bedouin village on the West Bank, and destroyed all the tents of the community of 60 people, including 35 children. The shelters they had built for their cattle were also destroyed. The 30 tents were a donation from the European Union, after earlier destruction of the tents of the families by the Israeli occupiers on 3 November 2020 and 9 February this year. It is already the fifth raid on Palestinian families by the Israeli army in February alone. The families are now, for the second time during this winter, homeless. The Israeli occupying forces also carried out mobile water tanks, which are the only source of water for daily use by the community and their cattle. The Israeli army remained on the scene until 2 p.m. When the Belgian delegation arrived, it could only determine what had happened. However, the EU and Belgium had repeatedly called for an end to these destructions. This aggressive provocation on the part of Israel is clearly intended, with unmistakable acts towards our country and the European Union, to show that one is not impressed. With this shameful act, the Belgian delegation has also been offended. Madam Minister, do you intend to condemn this umpteenth provocation of the apartheid regime....... even an NGO in Israel, B.. Tselem, which effectively describes that country as an apartheid regime....................................................................................................................................................................... Do you intend to take action against the illegal Israeli occupation and the de facto annexation of the occupied territories of the Palestinians in addition to any convictions that you will undoubtedly express? Have you contacted or consulted your Spanish and Canadian colleagues on a joint response to this provocation? Will our country and/or the EU ask for compensation for the material damage that has been caused there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. I share the concern about the active continuation of the settlement area of East Jerusalem, in the immediate vicinity of the city of Jerusalem and in zone C. Belgium unequivocally condemns the settlement policy and its consequences, including the destruction, which has increased significantly in recent months. Both Minister Wilmès and I have always expressed our concern about this, both bilaterally and internationally. For example, we have publicly and on several occasions communicated and taken diplomatic action, including through communication with the Israeli Ambassador in Brussels or during interventions in New York in the margins of the UN Security Council meetings. Our embassy in Tel Aviv, in consultation with various partners, has taken several steps at the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will continue to make such diplomatic efforts and call for respect for international humanitarian law. Belgium is also making an ongoing plea within the European Union to ensure that this issue is taken more into account by the Council. It is at the initiative of Belgium that discussions continue in various working groups. Other actions are under consideration at the donor level of the West Bank Protection Consortium, of which Belgium is a member. As stated in more detail in the replies of Minister Wilmès of 2 March 2021 to the Committee on External Relations, Belgium, as a donor of the Westbank Protection Consortium, is directly involved in recent events and has responded to our country. For example, our diplomats in Jerusalem have visited Humsa Al-Baqai'a as a sign of our commitment and our solidarity with the communities affected by the destruction. In addition, together with our partners in the Consortium, we sent a letter to the Israeli authorities in which we called on them to put an end to all destruction and confiscation of humanitarian facilities. Our embassy in Tel Aviv also participated in a joint diplomatic démarche to the Israeli authorities on 25 February 2021. As in previous incidents, it was clearly stated that these infrastructure and materials should be returned to the affected communities unconditionally and as soon as possible in their original place. If that is not the case, compensation will be requested. A reflection on the complementary responses to demolitions, beyond the usual diplomatic efforts, is an integral part of the risk management of Belgium's new portfolio of government cooperation with the Palestinian Authority, which is currently under preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor for my reply. The destruction of movable and immovable property is prohibited by Article 53 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, as you know. Since 1967, more than 100,000 Palestinian structures have been destroyed in Israel and the occupied territories. The destruction recorded in 2020, which I mentioned in my question, resulted in the forced displacement of 996 individuals, which is also prohibited. In my inquiry, I focused on the case of Humsa, which is a particularly challenging and symbolic case. But there is another village, Al-Araqib, located in Israeli territory in the Negev Valley, which has recently been destroyed for the 183rd time since 2010. This also speaks much of the resilience of the Palestinian populations elsewhere. It also says a great deal about the Israeli harassment. I may plead a little in the desert and naivety, but I believe that the diplomatic framework, the diplomatic consensus that dictates the Europeans' stance on the Israeli-Palestinian issue, is totally out of date. It must be reviewed and adapted today in the light of the deteriorating situation on the ground and the radicalisation of the Israeli government. As Minister for Cooperation, I sincerely believe that you have a whole series of levers to activate in order to force the Israeli Government to return to a more conducive framework for a peaceful solution to this conflict. Unfortunately, at the moment we are very far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Minister Wilmès gave me a similar answer. You are concerned, you say you will communicate and make diplomatic efforts, you have sent a letter and want to ask for compensation. I fear that all this will not suffice. The Israeli occupying forces are not impressed by this. If we still want a two-state solution and continue to follow international law regarding the illegal nature of the Israeli occupation, then it is time to translate certain convictions into action. The government agreement clearly states that Belgium explicitly undertakes to take certain proportional countermeasures. The European Union and Belgium have been financing Palestinian infrastructures for over 40 years, whether or not within the framework of development cooperation. So we are facilitating the state process, unfortunately not legally, but materially. The Israeli occupying forces are constantly destroying all the efforts and resources we are investing in them. We are reacting again and again by paying lip service, condemning the situation and pointing out an admonition, but more is needed. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will encourage your fellow Minister to pursue a more vigorous policy. There is no point in waiting for the like-minded states within Europe. If necessary, Belgium can take measures on its own. In doing so, the government would do nothing more than what it itself has included in its administrative agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u25	Madam Minister, a UNESCO monitor shows that schools are closed or restricted in 26 countries. This affects about 144,000 pupils or 8.3 % of the total school population. That is worrying, because during the toughest phase of the lockdown in Africa, more than 120 million girls were at home, where they were particularly vulnerable to domestic violence and sexual abuse. Schools acted as an important safety net for the corona crisis. In Kenya, for example, the schools were closed for eight months, where the number of girls' circumcisions, teenage pregnancies and child marriages has increased. The long-term consequences can be considerable. According to UNESCO, 30 million children will never return to school after the covid pandemic. We must, of course, be afraid of that. By providing children with training, they create resilient societies, where one treats one another peacefully. Respect for each other's rights is also taught through education. Madam Secretary, how have you dealt with this in your development cooperation policy? What have you done to ensure that children can continue to go to school? Is there a guide to this concern, which is shared globally? What have you done in practice in your own partner countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u26	Mrs Van Hoof, it became clear from the beginning of the pandemic that the negative effects of COOVID-19 would be felt far beyond the health sector and that society as a whole will feel the consequences. This applies particularly to education. The closure of schools in more than 190 countries prevented millions of children and young people from learning. UNICEF figures show that 24 million of them may not return to school, once the crisis is over. My administration has drawn up a note which has been sent to the posts in our partner countries, highlighting the socio-economic aspects of the crisis. The note is publicly available and is available on the website of the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid. The EDUCATE platform also allows for a regular exchange between all actors and Belgian Development Cooperation. Many actions were taken by the members of EDUCATE. Since the establishment of the Global Partnership for Education, Belgium has provided financial support to the fund, which aims to support education in fragile countries. In April 2020, the IGP set up an emergency education fund to ensure continuity of learning, including, for example, the distribution of audiovisual education programmes and school books and the financing of computer equipment for pupils and teachers. 66 funds have been allocated for a total of 467 million dollars. UNICEF, another development partner of Belgium, has also taken measures to reduce the interruption of services, particularly in the education sector, with, for example, the strengthening of the Internet connection, the distribution of school materials and support for the development of appropriate education programmes. The decisions in partner countries to close schools were national decisions, which were not taken at the level of individual schools or universities and to which cooperation programmes had to adapt. In most partner countries, Belgian funds were refocused to deal with the health aspects of the covid crisis. In some countries where Belgian actors in the education sector are active, funds have been refocused on the basis of new needs arising as a result of the crisis. For example, the APE-EFE education programme in Senegal was partially adapted to ensure distance target group training during the COOVID-19 pandemic. In Benin, non-governmental cooperation actors have made adjustments to programmes with a view to raising awareness: washing hands and wearing masks in schools. In Uganda, two projects by Enabel, Improve the training of secondary teachers in National Teachers College and Support to the implementation of the skilling Uganda strategy, were extended and additional resources were made available for the digital transition in education, to make education in times of pandemic even more available. Finally, I would like to point out that, for the new cooperation programme with Niger, I specifically asked the administration to consider whether Belgium could support the education sector, particularly in the field of girls in education, because they are even more affected by the effects of the crisis. I expect the analysis of the administration on this matter in the near future. Just one more add-on. I had a conference this morning with women from Palestine, who also share this concern. We have made a lot of progress in getting girls to go to school. The impact of the crisis means that a lot of children can't go to school anymore, so we need to make efforts now. We have done so now, above all, by introducing and adjusting distance education wherever possible. However, we must bear in mind that we are making additional efforts to ensure that girls will go back to school. We already know that there will be the greatest challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u27	Madam Secretary, you are clearly aware of the fact that the coronacris also has collateral damage and threatens to create a lost generation. I also believe that we will have to make additional efforts and that miracle solutions are not yet available. Distance learning is indeed a good solution but in developing countries not everyone has an Internet connection. It sounds good, but in reality it's hard to realize. It must be a point of attention where we will not only get out as a country, but on which we must look at how we can ensure that those girls who are at school do not become a lost generation in one way or another in the field of education, because where girls are better educated, there is more progress, there is more equality and more respect for women and human rights. At least it's a challenge that we have to think about together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament 55015002C by Mrs Van Hoof will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u29	Madam President, Minister, Lebanon has been going through the most serious economic and financial crisis in its history for several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u30	Over the past 12 or 18 months, the situation in the country has worsened further, firstly because of the health crisis and its consequences and, secondly, because of the explosion in the port of Beirut last August. This disaster was the ultimate indicator of the endemic corruption that has been denounced by the Lebanese population since autumn 2019 and has infiltrated all levels of the state's functioning. Some seem willing to do anything to maintain the benefits they derive from the system in place. A new illustration of this was given a few months ago by the Bank of Lebanon's refusal to answer the questions necessary to carry out the judicial audit (or forensic) of the institution on the pretext that a law on bank secrecy would prohibit it. Since then, the case has been stopped. However, this study would be a requirement of the IMF prior to any international assistance being provided. The Lebanese population is, as you know, out of breath and can no longer afford to wait Minister, do you confirm that the IMF conditions the release of aid for the completion of forensic expertise? If so, what initiatives could Belgium take in the bilateral and/or European context to support this request? Could you take stock of the monitoring of Belgian humanitarian aid to Lebanon following the disaster of 4 August 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u31	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your question. The political class in Lebanon, dominated by the Shiite Hezbollah party, is very wary of external interference and considers the IMF as a negative influence of the West, which it wants to avoid. The IMF has set transparency conditions for the local banking sector as well as for the provisional government. The creation of an anti-corruption authority is also part of these conditions, as well as a reform of the law on public procurement. These conditions coincide with the road map proposed by France after the disaster in the port of Beirut, with a view to obtaining the structural support of the group of countries that make up the CEDRE Conference. The European Union is a member and supports the reforms proposed therein. Furthermore, it is aware of the worrying state of the country and is very active in this matter. The last joint statement of the Council was addressed to the Lebanese political class on 7 December. The rapid formation of a full-fledged government, with a reform plan that takes into account the aspirations of the population, is at the heart of these concerns. Following the double explosion in the port of Beirut, two conferences on Lebanon were held. Minister Goffin participated in the donors' meeting in August. For my part, I took part in the one that followed in December. Immediately after the disaster, two aircraft carrying emergency medical and humanitarian assistance were dispatched to the area. An additional €6 million was made available, €2.5 million for WFP, €1 million for ICRC and €2.5 million for OCHA. Together with the two million euros already allocated to OCHA and the 1.5 million euros already allocated to WFP, this brought total direct humanitarian aid to Lebanon in 2020 to 9.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. You began by referring to the reluctance of Hezbollah, which, along with others, dominates the Lebanese political system, which, as you know, is highly confessionalized. The heart of the local reactor, the institution that is the point of convergence of all corruptions, is the Bank of Lebanon. It has been headed for several decades by Riad Salamé, who is neither a friend of Hezbollah nor of President Aoun. That's why I'd grade that part of your answer a little bit. The religious system in Lebanon has come to an end. It may have been useful at some point in the country's history to get out of the civil war and to restore some balance. In any case, the Lebanese population has been denouncing him every day on the street for over a year and a half. Through cooperation policies, we have leverage to demand precisely and, in my view, in advance the resumption of the Bank of Lebanon's audit. I recall that the international audit firm Alvarez gave up its mission, precisely because of the bad will it attributed to the bank of Lebanon and its director, Riad Salamé. It is when the institution is allowed to make full transparency in its way of functioning that we can begin to talk about the restoration of the rule of law and the fight against corruption in Lebanon, which is a fragile democracy in a region, as you know, very complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u33	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your flexibility. I have to follow three commissions at the same time and I could no longer find the access code for our committee. At the end of 2020, the European Commission presented its third EU action plan for gender equality in its external action. This is a very important signal. This plan demonstrates the continuity of the European Union's commitment to gender equality. It reflects the ambitions of the European Commission's March 2020 strategy to achieve equality between women and men with regard to the EU's external action. It also demonstrates the political will to support partner countries in achieving this objective. Unfortunately, the time is not at the party. The covid-19 pandemic is a serious threat to the progress made in recent decades. Inequalities, poverty and gender-based violence are on the rise. Women and girls are the first to suffer the consequences. Moreover, while the action plan is now validated at the level of the European Commission, its recognition by all Member States is now complicated at the level of the Council of the European Union. Hungary and Poland have expressed strong opposition and are currently blocking the adoption of this body's conclusions on the matter. Madam Minister, given your strong interest in gender equality and women's rights, can you tell us more about this "couch" – it is an understatement – in the adoption of this plan by the Council? What position has Belgium taken in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u34	Thank you for your question. The European Union Action Plan on Gender Equality was presented by the European Commission on 25 November 2020. Contrary to the usual practice, the Council could not unanimously adopt conclusions on the subject because of the frontal opposition of the Hungarian and Polish delegations, followed also by Bulgaria. These delegations did not accept the use of words and expressions 'gender equality', 'gender-based violence', or 'gender'. They wanted to replace the word with the phrase 'equality between men and women'. This more restrictive concept is synonymous with a reversal and denies the existence of the LGBTQI community. Gender equality covers a broader reality and refers to the construction of social relations between genders. That is why the German President took the initiative to publish Presidency conclusions instead of Council conclusions. Belgium, along with 24 other delegations, chose to join this initiative on 16 December 2020. For us, the European Union's agreements on gender, LGBTQI community rights, women's rights, sexual and reproductive rights are not negotiable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u35	Minister, thank you for your specific answer. Yes, I'm going back to your last words. The rights of women and LGBTQI people are non-negotiable. You're right to call him back. In Arkansas, this backward state of the United States, a measure against women has yet to be adopted. Even in one of the largest democracies in the world, conservatism and the desire to impose on women the non-choice of their bodies come back in force. And at our home in Beveren, it seems that a homophobic crime was committed. The fight is therefore to be waged daily with the democratic and progressive forces of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u36	Madam Secretary, in your speech following the publication of the new UN Human Development Report, you spoke about the thematic portfolios you will introduce, one in the Sahel around desertification and one in Central Africa about social protection. Belgian bilateral development cooperation normally operates geographically. The portfolios developed by the Belgian development agency Enabel so far are therefore tailored to one country. However, we know that certain problems do not end at national borders. The choice of cross-border approaches to certain problems is therefore particularly relevant. The themes you have chosen illustrate the challenges very well. The fight against desertification in the Sahel region cannot bind a country on its own. Social protection in Central Africa is also a very relevant issue. The Democratic Republic of Congo is one of the poorest countries in the world. A large part of the population does not have access to basic services such as education, health care or even drinking water. At the same time, there is little experience of social protection in these countries. Belgium can therefore play a supporting role in building these structures and expertise. What exactly is the focus of both thematic portfolios? Which countries will be in the portfolios? What budget are you paying for it? How do you want to reach the poorest?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, thank you for your question. It is true that we in Belgium will work in this way for the first time. We believe, after all, that if we join forces and take account of the geographical distribution, we will have much more impact and reach than just one-on-one. It is therefore for the very first time in our country that we will work in this way. I have indeed decided to launch two thematic portfolios, which can be implemented in several countries by Enabel. For the Climate and Environment portfolio, attention will be paid to the fight against desertification and the other environmental and climate challenges facing the region. After the current covid crisis, climate change is the next major global challenge. As we know, the impact of climate change will be harder for those countries and populations that do not have the technological and financial resources to deal with the global warming effects. This is a multiple challenge in the region of the Sahel. On the edge of the Sahara, the fight against desertification is never far away. Climate change adds higher temperatures and is expected to result in more unpredictable rainfall. Not to mention, the pressure currently placed on the region's natural resources, including water and grasslands, is also affecting certain processes. This cocktail leads to great food insecurity, conflicts over water, loss of agricultural land, declining biodiversity and also epidemiological consequences by crowding out and destroying the natural habitat of the animals and plants. So all this puts a serious brake on the development opportunities of the people in that region and on the fight against poverty. That is what we want to help them in, to meet the natural challenges, to make human pressure on natural resources manageable and, ultimately, to provide a better future for those in the weakest position in the region. This will take the form of specific projects addressing climate and environmental challenges and also addressing poverty reduction and seeking a fair economic transition. I will enter into the dialogue on the development of the portfolio in the coming months with four of our partner countries, Niger, Mali, Burkina Faso and Senegal, to the tune of EUR 50 million. The portfolio is intended to be implemented in the period 2022-2026. In addition, the current crisis has led to a broader consensus that social protection systems have been able to mitigate the economic and social impact of the crisis. Unfortunately, most people in the South are not covered by any form of social protection. That is why I decided to enter into dialogue with a number of partner countries on the launch of a second thematic portfolio on the subject, this time in the Great Lakes region, namely Rwanda, Uganda and Congo, for a similar amount of up to EUR 50 million. The aim of this portfolio is to focus on the promotional and preventive aspects of social protection, i.e. access to decent work, social protection for workers and formalising informal work. It is clear that my policy gives absolute priority to reaching the poorest and wants to strengthen them and make them resilient. In both thematic portfolios, therefore, I have set out the chalk lines within which these portfolios should be set up. This is because tangible results for these target groups are one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u38	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In the hearings on the Sahel that we organised with this committee, it was indeed said that the crisis in the region today is multidimensional. It is not just a question of socio-economic problems and security challenges, but also of the ecological challenge. In this context, I had asked the speakers in the hearings a question on the climate dimension in Belgian development cooperation. This is, after all, a very pressing problem in that region, so I am pleased to hear that Belgian development cooperation is working towards greater integration of the climate problems, especially in that region. The second thematic portfolio is also very important for our group. International solidarity is not charity for us, nor is it a symptom fight. These are investments in structures that allow access to education, access to quality health care, the development of social protection and access to decent work. It is therefore a structural policy in the field of international solidarity to combat poverty. Together with colleagues from PS, Ecolo-Groen, CD&V, we have tabled a resolution on this in Parliament calling for more investment in social protection. We are therefore pleased to hear that this is happening. We also ask the government to give its support to the creation of a global social protection fund at multilateral level, under the management of the ILO. It would be nice if you played a leading role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u39	Madam Member, several NGOs have also drawn our attention to this subject which we have been following very closely since 13 February. We have also contacted our embassy in Kinshasa several times for specific information on the situation. BIO also shared all the information provided by Feronia, as well as the various incident reports since 13 February. With regard to Mr. Blaise Mokwe's death, the facts still need to be clarified in order to establish the cause of death. However, every death is a tragedy and it is therefore necessary to shed light on what really happened. Our first response is to ensure that justice is done and that Feronia cooperates fully with the police and judicial authorities. To this end, an investigation by the public authorities is under way. The local prosecutor and his team started an investigation at the same time as the Ministry of the Interior started a series of consultations with various local representatives, civil society, religious communities, community representatives and the family of the deceased. The purpose of PHC is to obtain an independent investigation for the authorities. In addition, PHC lenders also intend to conduct an independent investigation. As regards the environmental and social action plan, this document is confidential as it forms part of the commercial contract. However, we are discussing with BIO the extent to which the entire plan could be shared with civil society. We are currently working closely with BIO to ensure the forthcoming release of a disclosure policy note. This will make it possible to objectify the issue of the transparency of BIO's activities. The mediation procedure of the German investment bank DEG, which is in progress, has not advanced in recent months due to travel and assembly restrictions linked to the covid-19. Independent mediators are not yet able to visit and organize mediations with communities and other local entities. Finally, BIO's exit strategy is the following. BIO has erased 50% of its loan in return for the implementation of an Environmental and Social Action Plan (EAP). Depending on the achievement of the AGE objectives, this erasure will gradually increase to a maximum of 80%. We insisted that the monitoring of the EAP be closely monitored by BIO. During this period, every effort must be made to improve the wages and conditions of workers. This is extremely critical and we hope that every effort will be made to mitigate social risks. Since taking office as Minister, I urge BIO to do everything possible to ensure that Feronia increases the lowest wages and improves working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-10-definitief-55-commissie-ic404x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answer and wish to return to a few points. This case is much older than you. We know that it is difficult to follow up on a case that is so complex and not very nice, from my point of view. I know you're in close contact with civil society monitoring these issues. Thank you for taking the events that have taken place on the spot very seriously. We cannot remain insensitive to the idea that several dozen people are arrested, raped, in a place where Belgian cooperation is active. This is not a good picture of what we want to do with partner countries. Besides, we're counting one death. Of course, the investigation has not yet been completed. But this person still died in a context that we cannot rejoice at. Compared to the information you have, you tell us that BIO shares with you the information provided by Feronia. We understand in this sentence the limit that this represents. Feronia does not have much interest in providing completely transparent and clear information. We will have to continue to strive for real information and, as you say, continue to work with local civil society that has access to other information. It is imperative that we have a clear vision of what is going on there. We also support the idea of having, at some point, an international investigation into this matter. Everything is so intertwined on the spot that it becomes difficult to have a clear view of the abuses that have actually been committed. In relation to the ESAP plan, it is confidential because it is protected by a commercial contract. That's the answer I've been given every time. Every time, I come back with the same question. I'm quite happy to see that you continue to want greater transparency. The plan we have access to consists of three pages. Three pages to get a clear idea of how BIO will manage environmental and social issues. It's too weak! I would still have a lot to say, but my speaking time is running out. Compared to the mediation procedure, if it is true that the covid limits things, this procedure was initiated several years ago. The covid must not now have the right back, because we cannot succeed in this mediation process. Keep putting all your energy on an exit worthy of this project that is not very worthy in my eyes! Thank you very much for these efforts.
