ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u1	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, thank you for the question and for referring to the question that has been put. Hopefully that's how we're gonna be able to handle all the questions today. As for your question. The police have provided the information of the 11 involved to the Foreign Office. It examines the possibility of sanctions here, such as the withdrawal of the statute. There were nine people involved from the Poelkapelle shelter. Seven of them have an ongoing procedure and two already have a statute. Fedasil was informed of these facts. The Flemish juvenile delinquency decree applies to the child concerned. One young person was arraigned at the juvenile court and was placed in a closed community institution. Additional measures were taken at the reception centre, including a time-out. For a number of young people and adults, it was decided to organise a disciplinary transfer in order to ensure the safety of everyone and to guarantee the rest in the vicinity of the shelter, in accordance with the sanctions allowed by the Reception Act. The reception structures are experiencing a particularly difficult period as a collection during this health crisis. All necessary measures are respected in the reception centres. This has a clear impact on daily life in the shelters, but that is and should not be an excuse for such acts of violence. If positive COVID-19 cases are detected, all necessary measures shall be taken, including quarantine or partial or complete lockdown of the collection centre. This means that current living conditions in the reception centres can be particularly difficult for residents. For the residents in the shelters, and in the event of enlargement for the whole of society, I hope that we can quickly put this covid pandemic behind us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u2	Thank you for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. It's only partly clear to me. You say this is about 11 people involved, nine of whom are staying in the center of Poelkapelle. What about the three others? Were those illegals, or people with regular residence status? That's not clear to me. Of those nine, the file was transferred. Two of them already had a statute, and seven of them are in progress, you say. I would have liked to have heard from you about the follow-up. Does this mean that, for the seven whose proceedings are under way, this fact is identified and taken into account when granting or not, I hope: not because of the status of residence? What action is being taken on this? The two people who already had a statute, what are they doing in the center? What are the consequences of this? Are they considering withdrawing their residence status? You spoke of time-out and transfer. For a stabbing where someone gets badly wounded, I really don't think that's enough. Perhaps you could answer that? If that is not the case, I will put it as a new question, so that it can be cleared up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u3	I'd be happy to add some more and finally repeat my first sentences. The police have provided the information of the person concerned to the DVZ. The DVD is currently examining the possible sanctions, such as the withdrawal of the Staff Regulations. That might be an enlightenment for you, Mrs Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u4	Yes, I would have missed that part of your answer. Once the investigation is completed, we will submit another question. Then we'll know what action was taken on that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u5	Mrs Van Camp, the forced return is indeed difficult because of the limited number of flights, the temporary closure of borders, the fact that often only ordinary passengers are accepted on a flight, and restrictive measures such as a negative covid test. Indeed, that test cannot be carried out under duress. If the purchase is refused, the removal cannot take place. The refusal shall be regarded as a refusal of departure, resulting in a new detention decision. The detention period shall then start again from zero and may amount to five months for persons who do not infringe public policy and up to eight months for those who do. The inhabitants of the centres are very well informed about the consequences of the non-acceptance of the test. In 2020 and 2021 there were a total of 42 cancellations of removals by refusing a corona test. I would add that a total of 2,422 successful removals were carried out in the same period. Fortunately, the first group is limited. Perhaps the deterrent of longer detention will help those who refuse to take the test.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, that is clear language. I therefore hope that, after that new period of detention, we will try to take the test, so that in those 42 cases we can finally proceed to expulsion, if that decision is to be taken. The refusal of a corona test as an objection to a proper expulsion cannot be accepted and the necessary steps must be taken to make it clear that this will lead to a longer detention period and that another attempt will be made to take the test until it can be finally deported.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u7	Mr. Secretary of State Mahdi, together with Flemish Minister of Work and Economics Hilde Crevits you will launch a digital kit to bring highly trained foreigners to Belgium. In the press release on this subject we read that you want to attract highly skilled foreigners to fill deficits in the Belgian labour market. You say that they will be highly educated and people who work in a bottleneck profession. How can you guarantee that these will only be highly educated or are they also about other bottleneck professions or people with different levels of education? On 1 April 2021, the project would start with a test phase. When can we expect an evaluation of this? What are your specific expectations for the project? Are certain targets or figures set? Should employers first seek potential on the domestic market and then in the European Union, before they can start recruiting non-European workers? If so, should they prove it? In what way should they prove that they have done so? Do you focus on labour migration from culturally related Western countries? If not, how do you justify the fact that Belgium, on the one hand, gives development aid to certain third countries and gives their nationals opportunities to receive training here, with the fact that, on the other hand, you are trying to steal highly educated people from the same countries, although they are obviously needed on the ground for the development or sometimes even reconstruction of their home country? Finally, what efforts have already been made to keep talent from homeland? Can we expect any further initiatives in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u8	Thank you, Mr Van Langenhove, for your questions. I am pleased to inform you that the electronic platform Working in Belgium will start in a test phase from next week on 1 April 2021. The evaluation will take place at the end of April 2021. We aim to ensure effective deployment in May 2021, subject, of course, to the proper conduct of the test phase. The single permit consists, on the one hand, of an admission to work, which is a competence of the regions, and, on the other hand, of an admission to stay, which is my competence. The electronic platform Working in Belgium is therefore a cooperation between the Regions and the competent federal ministers, namely myself, which coordinate the phase, and ministers Vandenbroucke and Dermagne for the involvement of the National Social Security Agency. I would therefore like to thank all the parties concerned for their close cooperation. The electronic platform will have a unique window, which centralises and modernises all applications for a single permit in Belgium. Every region now has its own website or application procedure. In the future, digitalisation will allow you to find one place, namely the Digital Unique Window Working in Belgium. The communication between the authorities concerned at the different stages of processing the application will be digital and automatic. It is not therefore a new migration channel or new substantive conditions, but an optimisation and simplification of the existing single authorisation procedure. Once again, the regions are responsible for access to the labour market. They shall judge on the basis of their legislation. The admission to the labour market of highly skilled persons or persons employed in bottleneck professions is therefore their competence. That is why I can tell you that in Flanders, as a rule, a labour market survey must be carried out. This means that it is being examined whether the specific vacancy cannot be filled by someone who is already present on the European labour market. Certain specific categories are exempted from labour market research, e.g. the highly skilled. Since this is neither a new migration channel nor an adaptation of the single permit status, the project's objective is to fully digitalise applications for combined permits and further shorten the treatment period. This will make the procedure more attractive to employers and future employees. Any measures to ensure that Belgians do not seek their professional challenge abroad are not in my jurisdiction. However, I would like to comment on what you call stealing highly skilled people from other countries, and consistency with development aid. The latter is, of course, the competence of my colleague, Mr Kitir, but I very much believe in contributing to so-called circular migration within my competence. In concrete terms, this involves facilitating projects in countries where there is a high potential for certain profiles, which gain a work experience and certain competences through an internship in Belgium, in order to connect to their labour market in their country of origin. Ideally, such projects initiate partnerships between Belgium and the country concerned, whether in the private or in the public sector. In my opinion, this is a win-win situation for both the person concerned and the country of origin and Belgium. I do not therefore see this as a contradiction with the welcome of highly educated people in Belgium. Different forms of legal migration co-exist and complement each other. A single permit is, moreover, a fixed-term stay linked to employment. Nothing prevents the person concerned from returning to the country of origin and from using the work experience acquired in Belgium on the basis of the single permit there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u9	Thank you for your comprehensive answer to each of my questions. You're talking about circular migration. How is this made concrete? I shall perhaps put a new question on that, because that will require a little more clarification. That sounds very nice in theory, of course, but in practice it does not come down to that. I would like to see the figures for that. How many migrants who come to Belgium receive training and work here? How many of these will eventually return to their homeland to help develop or rebuild their homeland? I have serious questions about that. In this respect, the practice does not correspond to the theory that you have just put out here. We are, of course, very much in favour of digitisation and simplification of procedures. This can still be done in many policy areas. We are therefore looking forward to the outcome of the test phase and its evaluation in May. You have not set out any specific evaluation points, but I will ask you a number of questions when the time is right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u10	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, if I understand correctly, you have reached an agreement on countries that do not cooperate in delivering laissez-passers for return. That will help with files such as the Black Widow's file, a file with a long history, which bores you and why the Foreign Affairs Office won a matter of principle before the Court of Cassation last summer. That didn't really make the media. However, it was a major step forward, because the withdrawal of nationality is automatically equivalent to the loss of the residence permit. In any case, you have raised the issue and a European visa sanctions system will now be set up. There will be a colour code for countries and the countries that are the most difficult in terms of laissez-passer and cooperation on return will be classified in a certain category and may be sanctioned. You also ask that the system be introduced quickly. Mrs Johansson wants to move forward, because it is an important issue with which many countries are struggling. Mr Secretary of State, could you explain something about this? What exactly was agreed? What's the follow-up? It wasn't entirely clear. You said that countries are rewarded with visas, circular migration, work visas, student visas and that the sanctions are that a country no longer receives part of those extras. What sanctions can be imposed? What does the whole package consist of? Do the sanctions mean that a country will no longer be rewarded? Is this also about cases such as the Black Widow, someone whose Belgian nationality was withdrawn and thus also loses the residence permit, but who was born and raised here or almost? Which countries are they mainly concerned with? It would be in about ten countries. Can we know it or is that secret not to cause diplomatic riots before launch? If that is the case, I understand that you do not want to list these countries, but I would have liked to see transparency in this area too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u12	Mr President, I will answer the questions as thoroughly as possible. If Mrs Jadin cannot follow the sitting now, she can listen to the answer postponed. I will undoubtedly break down an open door when I say that return has been a pain of asylum and migration policy within the European Union for some time now. However, since the entry into force of the Visa Code in February last year, the European Commission has a legal opportunity to grant visa concessions to countries that cooperate well in return and apply visa sanctions to countries that do not take their nationals back. At the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 12 March, I put our concerns about return policy on the table. The Member States then gave the Portuguese Presidency a clear mandate to launch the process allowing the use of the visa instrument for return. That is an important aspect. Mrs Johansson said that this is a step forward and above all that we need to move faster. The Commission has published a first confidential assessment report under Article 25a of the Visa Code requiring the Commission to assess annually the level of cooperation on the readmission of third countries subject to visa requirements. A list will be drawn up limited to these few third countries which are most reluctant to cooperate on readmission. The Member States invited the Committee to take diplomatic measures to initially improve cooperation on readmission with these third countries before moving on to visa-related sanctions. The Commission has expressed its readiness to use, from this summer onwards, the lever of visa policy against third countries identified by the Council. There's definitely a confidential aspect in it. In order not to burn certain diplomatic bridges, we need to be careful in communication. The Commission itself states that it intends to make use of this by this summer. Some will know that this is rather fast and ambitious according to European standards, and it is a good thing. The European return rate is on average 30%. The return rate of Belgium is known. It is 18%. It is nevertheless important to stress that the rates of the different Member States are very difficult to compare. Belgium is one of the only countries that meticulously uses the definitions given by the Commission in order to produce the statistics, and we only count on the departures we are sure of. Some other countries, for example, also take over all negative address checks. If the person concerned is no longer found at his or her known address, he or she is considered to have returned to the country without proof of his or her departure. Some other States note a rate of 400 per cent for some countries of origin. I'd be glad if you could explain to me how this is possible. It is therefore complicated to make such a comparison. But whether the rate is 18% or 30%, the level is far too low and must rise. I want to point it out. So I continue to invest in forced returns but also in voluntary returns that have been neglected in recent years. This approach takes place as soon as a foreigner arrives in Belgium. It is monitored from the beginning and informed about its chances of remaining, which are often very limited. That is the approach that has been in place in the Netherlands for a long time. When someone asks for asylum there, they will receive information on the possibilities available from the moment of application for asylum. One possibility is for asylum applications to be treated negatively. We must get that perspective right away. That's what we stand for. This approach therefore becomes more and more binding with, finally, a possible forced return, when it seems impossible to convince the individual to return voluntarily to his country of origin and thus improve the results. At the international level, I am continuing my dialogue with third countries through my diplomatic contacts. At the bilateral level, we must work towards the implementation of existing agreements and the negotiation of new ones. As I said a moment ago, a common European approach to the deployment of common instruments is a necessary complement to a bilateral return policy. I come to the final questions on the overall package of measures that we can use. We certainly need to look at strengthening links with the countries of origin. There are several possibilities for this, which I have already provided in the most recent committee. There is a root and a stick in everything in life, which means that we must ensure that we strengthen our relations and believe in strong bilateral relations, which can be accompanied by good visa favors. We also need to think about how circular migration projects make it possible to get people working here and get them to gain experience. The countries of origin will be very pleased to see those highly qualified people return to their countries with the experience they have gained here. There are many instruments of which a root can be part. However, we must also be careful in the negotiations to be able to sanction when countries refuse to cooperate. That's what we're doing. I am very pleased that at European level, as well as everyone else, we have made it clear that we need to do something quickly. I am particularly pleased that the European Commission has made it very clear that we are very ambitious in this area and that we will have to work on it by the summer of 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. In itself, it is a good thing that a European policy will be put in place. Finally, I'd dare say. However, let us wait and see. I'm a little skeptical about this. I have also argued for it for years, but that has always been a battle in the water. As you know, with Morocco, the Euro-Moroccan readmission agreement or read mission agreement has been on the table for 20 years, but has not yet been completed. The Moroccans prefer to negotiate bilaterally with the Member States because they will be able to carry out more work. I'd do the same for them. We shall see first and then believe. Nor do I believe that cases such as the Black Widow will be included, or that people who have been here their whole lives and have seen their nationality withdrawn or are subject to sanctions will be taken back by Morocco. I don't think that's gonna happen now. That's very difficult. You have communicated the file as the solution to situations such as the situation with the Black Widow. These are very special situations and very difficult cases, where the Moroccans are particularly efficient with readmission agreements or laissez-passers for such cases. If the visa sanctions will serve for such cases, it will be a very serious diplomatic battle. However, I have no choice but to wish you every success in bringing things in. I understand the matter is confidential. You must pay attention to that confidentiality so that you do not have a riot even before you have started. I hope that this could lead to a breakthrough in the field of return and laissez-passers. I will continue to follow this up in practice, but certainly also in the figures. After all, it is about exactly how much return this brings about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u14	Minister, Secretary of State, this is also one of the points I continue to stress. I'd made a file following five years of attacks. You are from Molenbeek and now live in Vilvoorde. So you are certainly also a particularly involved party. I have already asked many questions to Mr Van Quickenborne, including about the IS woman who has already been released after a few months in prison. She was arrested in Turkey. I also have a number of questions about Vilvoorde. We'll both keep an eye on it because it's very important for our region. We all have to worry about the trauma of the attacks in Zaventem and Maalbeek, but certainly the core jihadis from Vilvoorde. If you're from the region yourself, of course you know it even better. I had asked a number of questions, but I did not get quite clear from those figures. How many Muslim extremists and Syrian fighters are currently strangers and can they be returned to their homeland? How many residence cards have been revoked? How many Muslim extremists have been effectively returned in the last six months, so under your mandate? That is more of a written question, so you can also give me the answer in writing. I'm really trying to make a good file on that where I keep track of everything. Mr Van Quickenborne has already made very serious statements about this in plenary in connection with the murder of Mr Paty. I try to follow up on whether it really is. Hard talk is not difficult, but that effective follow-up and realization, of course, is a very different pair of sleeves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u15	Mr President, Mr Francken, thank you for your question on an issue which concerns me, and I am sure all of us are concerned. That's what you're right to say. It was five years ago and it is a trauma for someone who lived in Vilvoorde and Molenbeek, or Brussels in general, but also for everyone in Belgium. That was also a turning point in the minds of a lot of people, and also a wake-up call. The top three of the number of Syrian fighters is Molenbeek, Vilvoorde and Antwerp. This is a problem which concerns us all. The problem of extremism is not limited to Muslim extremistism for the DVD. Also left and right extremeism, for example in non-Belgen, is closely followed by the Foreign Affairs Office. Muslim extremists and Syrian fighters are therefore not a separate category that is as such kept in the common database. It is indeed more of a written question, but thanks to our services I was able to gather the answers quickly. On 17 March 2021, the situation of extremist aliens listed in the Common Database and located on Belgian territory was as follows: 41 foreign terrorist fighters, 8 homegrown terrorist fighters, 11 hate preachers, 15 potentially violent extremists and 8 persons convicted of terrorism. Since March 20, 2017, since then, the Foreign Affairs Office has access to the Common Data Bank, 15 persons who are in the Common Data Bank and are under the jurisdiction of the DVZ have been removed from its territory. For the sake of clarity, these figures concern only those who are currently in the Common Database, not those who have been removed from the list, but have already been removed from the territory. It is a dynamic database, which is constantly changing. The OCAD is competent to manage the list and to place someone on the list or to remove him from the list, on the basis of the legal criteria. Since my arrival on 1 October 2020 one person was removed and one person has left voluntarily. Here too, the figures are limited to those still on the list today. I will repeat once again that the follow-up and removal of persons who pose a threat to public order and national security is a necessity, and that is also our priority. For disposal, we depend on cooperation with third countries, which are often not or are not sufficient. Of course, the health situation and the travel restrictions currently in force also have an impact, but this does not prevent us from continuing to use them and making progress where possible. This category of persons must and will certainly be a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, for the record, I assume that the figures you mentioned relate to people who are not Belgian? Has these people's right of residence been revoked yet? Do they still have a right of residence here or are they now illegal in the country? Indeed, in the previous legislature, together with your party, we have strengthened Articles 20 and 21 of the Aliens Act, so that we can withdraw the right of residence more quickly because of terrorism, terrorism and extremism. Is it about residence cards that have already been withdrawn? If you don't know, the answer may still be given to me. They are strangers, I suppose, who are covered by the DVZ, but I would like to know if their stay has already been withdrawn or not. In any case, I agree with your last words. It must be an absolute priority. It's not easy. No one likes that category. It's already hard to send ordinary illegals back, let alone someone with such radical ideas. Whether it's Muslim extremistism or any other kind of extremism, no state likes to take up such people again. We do not like to do that ourselves either. When one asks Belgium to take up a particular person again, there is also a lot of fuss and my next question about the IS women is about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say that there has been a lot of discussion within the government about the return of the IS-brides or IS-women, who, among other things, are stuck in Al Hol and who are or are not Belgian nationals. The women probably do, but it is not always clear about the children, because there is no diplomatic service in Damascus or Syria. It's extremely flou and unclear. That is one of the reasons why we have been looking at this dossier for years, when not much is happening. There is also a great deal of political and social resistance, as you know. It's a very sensitive file. I have been told that you have a strong opinion on it. Me too. There was rather triumphant communication from the Green Group. Wouter De Vriendt found the repatriation, including of women, the ultimate sign of humanity. I have a different opinion on that. I do not know whether it should be so triumphant. I personally did not think that was Green's best communication, although in recent months they have been doing something about it. That's on them. Everyone makes mistakes. My question is to what extent that has an impact on the DVZ. A politician may have an opinion on this, but if the people concerned are repatriated, it will be through a military mission from the Defense Department, I presume. That is why I have also put a question to Mrs Dedonder, if I may ask them, of course, but all the madness on a stick. Will the Foreign Office play a role in that delicate operation? That's not entirely clear to me. Is there a playbook for it yet? Is that what you're preparing? In what meeting is such a thing being prepared?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u18	You are always welcome here, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u19	(...) For now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u20	Mr Francken, thank you for your question. Of course, I am also curious about your sources who are aware of how I personally look at the matter. They may have been well informed. The National Security Council has decided that our country will repatriate a number of persons from Syria and Iraq. In concrete terms, these are Belgian minors who have not yet reached the age of 12, and possibly their Belgian mothers. The Foreign Affairs Office is not competent for Belgian nationals. The intervention of the Foreign Affairs Office may be necessary for the children of Belgian parents who do not yet comply with all formalities, because they are not yet registered in our country. In such cases, a travel document may be necessary. I would add that non-Belgian Syrian fighters, who may be covered by the DVZ, will of course not be repatriated. I can only speak about my powers. You are free and it is good to ask questions to those Members who have competence in this matter. I can only express my opinion on my competence, and I have been clear enough about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, a travel document, is that a visa C or a humanitarian visa? Will the government issue humanitarian visas to the children of Syrian fighters? Or what travel document is it? It would, of course, be very cynical if you were to silence the humanitarian visas for Iranian dissidents, but then hand them out to children of Syrian fighters. I can't imagine you would do that. I assume that the Foreigner's Act offers other opportunities to give these children a visa or a travel document. At least I hope so. I will certainly follow that up further. I hope that non-Belgian Syrian fighters will not receive a visa, but European law in this area is not entirely on our side. You know that, too. The right to family life is a fundamental pillar of European law. If a Syrian warrior suddenly shows up here again, applies for family reunification and can prove that they are his children, then something will have to be set in motion. I think this is also one of the reasons for your scepticism, because there are still a lot of warriors there. We don't have a visual on that. Many have died, but there are certainly many thousands still present. There's a reason we're sitting there with our F-16s. However, I would like to see that if family reunification is requested, these visas can be refused. They can be refused, but they can also appeal against it, and the right to family life states that they must be able to come back, especially if they are Belgian. If they are strangers, that will be more difficult, but if they are Belgian, I think that in the long run you might even be repatriating Syrian fighters, which would really be a blow to the face of a lot of victims and their next of kin. This week there was the book show of Disarmed by Koen Metsu. The lawyer who subpoenaed the Belgian State was also present. I talked to him then, and I have to tell you, it's a very punishing story. You might want to invite him, because what he said was very impressive. I don't think repatriation is really what the victims are waiting for. They are waiting for other things, such as proper compensation. By the way, hundreds of victims have not yet been compensated, which is very painful five years after the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u22	First of all, I would like to point out to Mr Francken that this can be done on the basis of public policy. Public policy is also taken into account in family reunification. Mrs Van Camp, as far as your questions are concerned, the two people were indeed given an entry ban. The duration of the entry ban depends on specific factors, namely the severity of the punishment, the use or not of violence, the family situation in Belgium, any medical or other humanitarian conditions. Alle elementen with load and discharge worden afgewogen. You asked what facts it was about. These were very diverse facts, such as violations of drug law, association of criminals, gang formation, thefts with violence, deliberate beatings and injuries, threats, forbidden weapons, sexual assault and rape. You're saying these people walk around unpunished. That's not correct. As you were informed in the answer to which you refer in your question, 60 out of 68 people are still in prison today. Two persons were removed from the remaining eight persons. Two persons were held in a closed center for disposal. A person of this kind was meanwhile exempted from the order to leave the territory in February of this year, because he is currently not removable. The other person was repatriated to the country of origin. Four other persons were also ordered to leave the territory. In summary, 60 people are in prison, three were repatriated and five were ordered to leave the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u23	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the clear answer. That doesn't make it as bad as I thought. I thought that only two people would follow up on the facts they have committed. It is clear from your reply that most of them were punished, expelled from the country or still in prison. I find it regrettable and appalling to learn that five people will get away with that punishment. They are walking around with an order to leave the territory, while they have set up public order, committed facts and have been convicted. It is a pity that these people cannot be punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u24	Mrs. Van Camp, I need to give some context to your question. You say that in 2019 2,765 families with underage children were ordered to leave the territory. For the sake of clarity, that figure refers to the total number of adults who received such an order and were part of a family with child children. So it's about the parents but also about the adult brothers or sisters. The figure also includes several commands given to one person. It is therefore not correct to say that 2.765 families would have been given this order. Apart from that, the return of families with underage children without legal residence, voluntary or forced, is and remains complex. The same was true in the past, when families with underage children were still locked up. The low number of families that left the closed center in 2018 and 2019 127bis testifies to this. It was only seven families. A correct return policy is more than simply locking up children and then being able to say that one is the strictest. It is necessary to consider the whole range of measures leading to the follow-up of the order, both for voluntary and for guided and forced return. So there's more to it. I am therefore developing various alternatives to detention with my services. An intensive guidance to return will be given a central role for families with underage children. This includes the development of further measures to prevent the removal from being made impossible by a manifest lack of cooperation. The fact that families with underage children are no longer held in closed centres does not at all prejudice the need to comply with the order. I refer again to the only seven families that left in 2018 and 2019. In the pressing policy I stand for, quick and intensive follow-up from the first order prevents individuals from giving follow-up to this order. Those involved are not abandoned to further integrate into society, they are immediately and intensively accompanied to return. As the new forms of return guidance are still being developed, it is impossible to give figures on the effective return of the various categories that will be accompanied. At the moment, a roadmap is being drawn up to fill in this intensive guidance very concretely. One aspect of the upcoming policy and return guidance will be the more quality implementation of the current SEFOR procedure. Now it is left to the congregations to follow the stranger who receives an order. Priority target groups are identified for this purpose. Although initially used for voluntary return, detention will be carried out with a view to forced removal if the person concerned does not return effectively. For families with underage children, this forced departure from the FITT homes will be organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u25	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. For the figure of 2,765, I based myself on your answer. Then perhaps you could let us know how many families it is effective? You say that you want to rely as much as possible on objective figures. If you give us the figures, we can follow them up. You also say that in recent years only seven families have left. It is not clear to me whether you are putting together the voluntary and forced return. You say that in 2020 you only know about two families, but you call that too early. Perhaps it would have been interesting to set up the moratorium only after you had a plan and plan to deal with this forced and voluntary return of families. I note that you have included the moratorium, but you do not have a roadmap to set up an alternative. There is still no alternative, although we have asked you many times in this committee. Meanwhile, the returns figures are falling. If the total is seven and by 2020 we are on two, that is not a success in previous years, especially not last year. We know from the Bossuyt Commission that voluntary return policy is also problematic. Those figures must always be considered together. I look forward to your figures and I'd like to put them in perspective. You say, and I agree with that, that when the coaching process was started and families do not want to participate in voluntary return, they must be forced to return. We'll follow up on the numbers to see if you can make that work. My final question is whether the same thing happens to families who refuse to cooperate in coaching. If I understand correctly, it started with 150 families, 50 of which immediately refused. I'll be sure to question you about what happened to the 50. Is that where the forced return was started or is that left blue blue? I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u26	Mr President, Secretary of State, you have recently announced that you will extend the team of outreach workers. These outreach workers must inform the so-called transmigrants and people without legal residence about the asylum and migration rules in force. It is indeed important for migrants and refugees to have transparent and complete information on the possibilities of asylum residence and return. You rightly referred in the press release to the added value of these outreach teams. You said it was about social work. Indeed, that cannot be done by handing out a flyer. Hopefully everyone in this committee agrees that the task of these outreach teams falls under the heading of social work and that the added value of outreach is the approach that is applied in other areas as well. By really going to the living world of the target group, one can find out what thresholds there are for putting policy into practice. Can you explain how the team really works? Outside working presupposes a certain basic attitude and specific skills of the social worker. How are these people selected and how are they supported in their challenging assignment? Is it also intended to expand this group in the future? How does the outreach relate to other initiatives, such as the orientation centres for victims of trafficking in human beings? In the press release you also talk about the disinformation. The extravagant must counter that disinformation. What is the most common disinformation among the target group? How will the knowledge that outreach workers will gain on the ground be used to improve policy as there is a better view of that target group?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u27	Mr President, I will not give the context back, but I will come directly to specific points. Mr Secretary of State, as you know, Waremme is one of the communes that knows the important phenomenon of transmigration and its terrible consequences at the human level, in terms of the suffering of those who are there in precarious situations. I am pleased to see that you will strengthen the teams with eleven people and that the Reach Out project will develop in Tournai and Zeebrugge. In this context, my question will be very clear. How and by whom are the key locations where the Reach Out project will be developed determined? In order to support the transmigrants in their efforts and not to continue to create places in the second zone where groups of people live in deplorable conditions, what is the process to follow in order to receive the help of a Reach Out team in our commune and so that this information circulates in a necessary link of trust, relationship, social approach and information? This link will be made over time. We must therefore come to the field, particularly in Waremme. Will you extend this project to all cities affected by transmigration in Belgium? When we know that the cost of holding is 192 euros a day for the Belgian taxpayer, given the results you stressed and which are positive at Reach Out, would it not be more effective to strengthen with this budget mobile teams so that they can support the municipalities that, like Waremme, need help, listening and being able to guide these audiences? Whatever their background, they are particularly vulnerable audiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, I followed the Fedasil affair on the ground to see the way it works. I must say, I was impressed by that effect. The team's staff approach any migrant they encounter on the ground to inform them about the asylum procedure, Dublin rules and voluntary return. If there are indications of human trafficking, for example, the employee will contact one of the specialised centres with which Fedasil cooperates. That is also an answer to Mrs Platteau's question. My cabinet regularly consults with Fedasil to discuss the trends and results of the outreach. In this way, I will be kept informed and, if necessary, I will be able to make policy decisions on transit migrants. It is important to give people the right information, so that the migrant does not rely solely on information he has received from smugglers, for example. You ask me about the most common disinformation among transit migrants. Well, there is a lot of confusion about the application of the Dublin system and the use of fingerprints. Migrants are wondering what life is like in the United Kingdom, what information you might know. They look very much at life in Britain through rosy glasses, even when it comes to living in illegal residence. The migrants are de-informed from the first moment of their departure until someone from the outreacheam meets them here. The fight against this disinformation is really very important. The current team of three employees, in particular two outreach workers and one coordinator, only works in Brussels, on several hotspots where people can be found without legal residence. This is the case, for example, in the Noordwijk, in the Maximilian Park, in homeless centres and in daycare initiatives for transit migrants. This approach is also the starting point for the action plan in the other regions, as soon as the team expands. This expansion will help meet existing demand in other parts of Belgium such as Zeebrugge and Tournai. Mr Rigot, as you yourself say, the phenomenon of transmigration also affects other cities such as Waremme, for example. Fedasil is ready to discuss with local authorities and NGOs active in the field on the possibility of collaboration. If the presence of migrants in transit is known by Fedasil, the team will take steps to reach them, within its capabilities. For my part, I have contacts with the local authorities and I can therefore forward their request to Fedasil, if necessary. So, when the team is expanded, we're supposed to be able to deploy it in many places where we face transit migrants. I was just talking about Waremme and Tournai, but Zeebrugge is also included. The staff recruited must be strong both in the approach to persons and in the information and guidance of migrants. It also needs to be able to work well with existing organisations and to network well in order to increase the reach of outreach, to know where the hotspots are and where the transit migrants are, in order to reach them as soon as possible. Since the outreach has been active for some time, the outliner's profile is already clearer than in the initial phase of the project. Fedasil will certainly pay sufficient attention to the formulation of a clear vacancy, in order to be able to recruit the right profiles. When I went along with the affair in Brussels, I myself found that these three people certainly have the right profile. They are employees who know how to take the right approach in a very difficult context. I would like to give you an overview of the results of the current operation. There are only two outreach workers on the premises. The employees register all their contact moments and the follow-up given to them. It is also possible to estimate how many migrants a larger team could reach. In 2020, 2,604 general contact or information events took place, purely through those two employees, both individually and in group. In addition, there were 156 individual counselings. An individual counseling is an intensive, personal accompaniment, in which a migrant is accompanied when making an informed decision. 96% of the contact points concerned men and 4% concerned women, to answer Mrs Van Camp's question. I would also like to note that, from mid-March to the end of June, the outreach was inactive because of the current sanitary measures. A team of 12 outreach workers and 2 coordinators could thus potentially have more than 15,000 contact moments and almost 1,000 individual counselings in one year's time. The 2020 figures show that 21% of individual counselings result in a regular circuit. This means that 10% was able to integrate into the reception network and applied for asylum on the basis of an ongoing asylum procedure, which applied for international protection by 7% and registered 4% for voluntary return. 18% of counselling routes were still ongoing by the end of 2020. For those who do not belong to the two groups, all other measures will of course continue to apply. With outreach they try to respond in advance to what needs to be done afterwards. So don't get me wrong: all other measures will continue to apply and will be applied. The existing outreach is financed by European funds. Enlargement will take place in different stages. The costs were estimated at 620,000 euros for 11 additional staff, being one additional coordinator and ten outreach staff. The concrete planning for the recruitment of these persons is currently under review. I believe in the added value of awareness and my policy invests in this. Awareness is about providing information so that migrants can make an informed decision. We're trying to have the greatest possible impact on that decision. We also try to avoid as much as possible that migrants undertake a dangerous journey, crawl into a truck or try to swim across the ocean. This is primarily in the interests of those vulnerable people, but also of all of us. But don't get me wrong. It is important to raise awareness and provide information. However, it is not intended to replace detention with outreach, as one of the questions indicated. Detention has another purpose, namely to ensure the removal of the person concerned if he or she does not cooperate with the authorities. My goal is therefore to inform someone several times about his situation and the consequences of his irregular stay, by the time he is placed in detention. It's important to make that distinction. On the contrary, we must inform migrants and help fight against sources of information which, unfortunately, do not always have the best interests of them. This information struggle is just as important as the guidance of migrants. Unfortunately, the reality shows that some do not want to go along with it. For everyone else what should apply remains, namely that they prefer to return voluntarily, or forced if they have to, if that is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u29	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the clarifications. You admit quite honestly that the operation of the team was interrupted by the corona crisis. Apart from that, you are very enthusiastic about the results, but I found them very confusing in the media. You tried to clarify them today. The media reports show that it is difficult to speak of success, even if every step is a step in the right direction. If I understand correctly, the team now consists of three people, two on the ground and one coordinator. Based on average personnel costs of EUR 50,000 per year, this amounts to EUR 150,000 per year for 2,600 contacts. Do you mean the number of people reached, because you were talking about individual and group? Let's assume that for a moment. Those contacts then led to 156 counselings in one year, that is clear. In most cases it was men, that's obvious. At 21 % this resulted in the regularisation of the status: 10 % started an asylum procedure, 7 % requested protection and 4 %, a handful, voluntarily returned. So this is a success rate of about 1%. For some, the application is still pending and we do not yet know the outcome. It may be negative, but it is known that the chances of returning in such a case are very low. Well, I find 150,000 euros a lot of money for a success rate of 1 %, while only 4 % has returned voluntarily and 17 % of the result of the procedure is still unknown. I have a slightly different vision of success than you do. You want to expand the team now with another 11 people. The annual costs will therefore rise to... improve me if I have miscalculated..... almost 750.000 euros. I hope that the success rate will be increased, because the figures do not convince me at all now. I will certainly continue to follow up or improve the figures on the ground. I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, the results you gave us show that people in the field are needed. Then, of course, we can make all the calculations like Mrs Van Camp to make it appear that the system is not working. I can only thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for extending the team from three to fourteen people. It is disinformation if people deal with the numbers wrongly. Anyone here can count and count. My hair got up when I heard another questioner talking about social workers. You will not blame me for speaking above all about the extravagance in Zeebrugge. The water's on the lips. The United Kingdom is presented as the land of milk and honey by many smugglers and by many people who have it wrong. That is why it is important to use outreach services, and I am glad that you have not used the word social workers in your reply, which will be firm and have contact with everyone, including the local police and also with the shipping police. Their commitment does not prevent migrants who have already been addressed several times and are not allowed to be here from being returned to detention. It will be possible to report that there is a group in Zeebrugge and there can be decisive action. I think it is very important that the outreach workers should also be able to use the repressive force. On the other hand, it is very important that migrants receive correct information. It has to go hand in hand. It should not be about merely informing but also about acting. It must be reported to the shipping police and to the local police, so that there can also be proper and firm action. My opinion is well known: anyone who is repeatedly caught up in repeated attempts to cross the border may need to be placed in closed institutions much more quickly. This way we can protect them and everyone. If you place vacancies, if you provide training for outreach teams, pay the necessary attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I would not react at first and just thank you for your very clear answer. The previous speaker, however, gave a very different interpretation of what an outreach should do. We can certainly regard the work of the outreach teams as social work. They are not there to act repressively. They should not operate in the place of police and security services. If we do so, we will completely destroy the effectiveness of such an outcome from the start. They must be able to gain the confidence of those involved, in order to inform them and lead them to the regular circuit, although return is certainly part of it. However, we must certainly consider separately the two avenues of repression and guidance, that is to say, outreach work. In the other case, we risk completely destroying the effectiveness of the team. I would like to stress that it is important for us that they adopt this approach in order to gain confidence. They must certainly not act in the place of police forces, which have a completely different role to play in this area. They are also important, but it is certainly not our intention to recruit such people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u32	Mr. Secretary of State, the figures are analysed crudely here. But I will remind you that we are leaving a long way in terms of confidence. The process must be evaluated over the long term, and not now, grossly, on the first figures obtained. First and foremost, it will be necessary to establish a link, to re-establish a dialogue. It's essential. If we come directly with the stick, I'm sorry but it won't work. Today we do not need migrant hunters. What is needed, above all, is to enable information, a link of trust with these transmigrants. As you said, Secretary of State, you have to give them good information to make the right choice, or their choice, at least. I'm not angelic and I'm also a legalist. It is obvious that if at some point, when they have obtained the relevant information and are in a position to make their choice, they choose illegality, I can say that measures must be taken that are consistent with a State governed by the rule of law and that may be measures of deprivation of liberty or refoulement if necessary. I am not, as I say, naive and angelic. But it is obvious that we must first create this link. Perhaps it is as well, Mr. Secretary of State, to work with associations that are on the ground and that offer human support, help to those who are undocumented and who are also often homeless. This may be the best way to approach them at first, to create this bond of trust. For my part, in conclusion, I accept your proposal to relay to Fedasil the call of the city of Waremme. I'm putting it right now for you: Waremme is asking for a Reach Out contact and Fedasil's support. I will not fail, through our mayor, to question Fedasil and to ask for this help, which is important to make positive progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u33	Mr President, I think Mr Rigot has made a perfect summary. We must not be naive, but we must believe in creating a relationship of trust in the hope of making a difference there. As far as making a difference is concerned, I have to specify a number of figures because Mrs Van Camp may not have heard a number of figures correctly. It's not about four people or about 1%. In total, 21 percent of the people we take out of that illegal residence. That is what we all hope to do, to ensure that we can get people who are wandering the streets and who are staying here illegally out of it. This means that 4% opts for voluntary return, which has submitted a further 7% request for international protection and which has been able to integrate 10% into the reception network and has an ongoing asylum procedure to ensure that they receive an answer to their question. That answer may be that they do not have the right to international protection, and then it must be followed up and those persons must leave the country and return to their country of origin. We need to work on that. Many questions have already been asked about this and rightly so. However, there are also a number of people who are told on the basis of their application that they are entitled to asylum, to international protection. So we must give them protection, and by "must" I do not mean the negative sense of the word. It is about people who are homosexual and can be killed in their own country because they are grounded differently. They may then be people fleeing war, and we all believe they deserve shelter. Saying that the success ratio depends only on that one group, which then minimizes you by making that 4 % 1 or 0.5 %, I really don't find the way to look at things. We need to work towards a better return policy. You have heard me say that to every committee, and you will hear me communicate enough about it. However, let us not confine ourselves to that alone. There really are people who need international protection. As a final element, I would like to give you another tip. We are both in favour of sufficient capacity in the closed centres. You are only looking at the voluntary return, which you minimize, because you say it only matters 1%, which is not true. You say we may not have to do it then, because it costs us a lot and it doesn't pay much. Should I remind you of the period in which we have locked up many people, often transit migrants, in closed centres for 24 hours, which drastically reduced the effective returns from closed centres? On the basis of that argument, others can today judge that forced return may not work well or cost too much. I propose not to make such statements. Any element of the puzzle that ensures that people who have to return actually return is essential. The part we are discussing now, a human part that informs people, is part of it, both for people who have to return and for people who are entitled to protection and whom we must give protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, the percentages you mention are based on the number of 156 people who have started individual sessions. That would be 4 %, wouldn't it, like, six people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u35	Mrs. Van Camp, can you finish your reply? Then the Secretary of State can answer that. Or was that your only question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u36	Mr President, the Secretary of State said that I misunderstood the figures, but he was talking about 4%, 7% and 10%. That's about the total of 156 people who started counseling. He said that so literally.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u37	The Secretary of State asks what your point is.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u38	Mr. Secretary of State, are those figures correct? I'm getting a sneak because I didn't get the numbers right. I'd like to see the numbers confirmed. You mentioned the figures. There is now an irritation about the fact that I do not call that success. I do not call that a success because you say that you were able to reach 156 people in one year with that team. Of these, 4 percent have returned voluntarily. You may correct me if it isn't true. That amounts to an absolute number of six people. 7% applied for protection. That is an absolute number of eleven people and 10% is in an asylum reception procedure. That is an absolute number of sixteen people. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u39	Mrs. Van Camp, you've been paying attention. It may be my ears, but I have heard you mention two or three times the figure of 1 %. That's different from the numbers I gave you. We shouldn't end up in a well-nothing discussion. I can always give you the numbers if I have to, so it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u40	As long as we both work with the right numbers. I'll have them understood in a minute. I may have gone a little crazy, but I'll tell you how I got 1%. I tried to give that to you, too. You started those sessions in 2020 and you give us an annual total. You say there have been 2,604 contacts. The team can thus reach 2,604 people. However, a whole part of it does not go into it and then falls off. A counseling process can only be started in 156 people. This is about a total of 2,600 people still completed. Of those 156 persons who can be reached for individual counseling, 21 percent of the accommodation can be adjusted. Of these, 10% enter an asylum procedure, 7% apply for international protection and 4% return voluntarily. Of a total of 2,600, only six persons returned voluntarily in absolute numbers. There were 11 people, the absolute number, who applied and the absolute number of 16 people entered the asylum procedure. If you sell that against the total of 2,600 persons reached... So I really don't call that success in absolute numbers. A three-person team that costs the taxpayer at least 150,000 euros in a year can thus reach eleven plus six plus sixteen or 33 transmigrants. If you reject that against the total of the people you wanted to reach, namely 2,604 people, then that amounts to a success rate of 1,2 %. (...): I think Mrs Van Camp has made her point in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u41	Please don't get mixed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u42	I thought I had made my point the first time, but it was felt that I should clarify my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u43	That's what you did on this one. Mr Secretary of State, you should be aware that every time you give additional answers, the debate continues. After all, Parliament always has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u44	Mr President, fortunately Parliament always has the last word. Mrs Van Camp, I just want to emphasise that I have responded because you said that there is a 1% success rate. With this you say that success is only with people we send back and therefore not with people who no longer...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u45	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, that is not true. That 1% is voluntary return, the request for international protection and the reception network. If you add these three together and compare them with the total of 2,600, that's one percent. I didn't just calculate voluntary return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u46	I'm gonna have to ask my secretary to mute harder. It is not polite to interrupt the Secretary of State while he responds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u47	Mr President, I have just noted that the success rate is only viewed on the basis of return and not on the basis of persons who no longer want to take up any of the rules or trust the rules, but are still part of the system and therefore apply for asylum, apply for international protection or engage in an ongoing asylum procedure. That's important to give. Finally, extrapolating to the next few years on the basis of cost cannot be done, which you have also fairly and rightly indicated. In my reply, I stated that it was impossible for those concerned to work on the ground between March and June 2020 because of the co-vid measures. The comparison with 2021 or to a non-covid year is not correct. That is all I am asking, namely to deal with the figures correctly. I would like to make it quite clear that between March and June 2020, the covid crisis has prevented those involved from getting to work. You may make a calculation according to the cost. Everyone does. One makes the calculation of the cost of forced return; another makes the calculation of voluntary return. You may make that calculation, but make it correct and not just on the basis of a year in which there were largely restrictions because of the covid measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u48	Mrs. Van Camp, you may give the final reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u49	I do not need to replicate it, because I said myself that it cannot be fully interpreted by corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u50	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, the Danish authorities have considered that the security situation around Damascus has improved. On the basis of that balance, Denmark deprived 94 refugees from the Damascus region of their right of residence. However, I think that a number of nuances are in order. Firstly, Denmark is the only country in the European Union to draw that conclusion. The Commissioner-General cannot make that factual assessment at the moment, given the ongoing war situation and the persecutions by the regime. The assessment of the security situation in a particular country, as you may know, does not fall within my competence, but rather within the competence of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, who decides on this in full independence and on the basis of extensive analysis. However, I know that we politicians, too, speak very regularly about removing people from the knot of IS or from the knot of a dictator. On that basis, we may already be able to form a certain opinion. Secondly, it is important to note that reducing the right of residence does not mean that the 94 refugees concerned will be returned to Syria in the short term. Denmark does not want to negotiate with the Syrian regime, which may have a number of reasons, and the refugees are not willing to return voluntarily. Therefore, it is likely that those concerned will be taken into account in Danish return centres, perhaps for years, which will entail considerable costs. For some people it may be useful to communicate that people are being sent back, but there is a difference between reducing the right of residence of 94 people and sending them back effectively, which requires cooperation with a certain dictator, or asking them to return voluntarily to Syria. In Belgium, the Commissioner-General may waive refugee status or subsidiary protection status if the situation in the country of origin has changed and there is no longer any indication of legitimate fear of persecution or real risk of serious harm. Those changes to the situation must be sustainable. I can ask the Commissioner-General to investigate that for a particular country. However, I do not think it is appropriate to ask to examine the possible abolition of Syrian subsidiary protection status. The situation in Syria is still very precarious. I assume that we are all in agreement on this. More than that, we're trying to keep people out of the claws of IS, but at the same time would we send people back from here? What Denmark is doing is not exactly what we will opt for. Even if, in some cases, this could lead to the lifting of the protection status, I think it would be more useful to ask the CGVS to examine the pending dossiers and reduce the delay, so that the pressure on our reception centres is reduced. This does not, of course, exclude the fact that the CGVS does examine ad hoc files, for example in the case of return to the country of origin or in the case of fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u51	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to add the text of my question because it is rather technical. I don't want to make mistakes. It concerns a judgment of the Constitutional Court delivered on 25 February on the transposition of the Asylum Procedure Directive. You know that I introduced it to Parliament. I believe that our work has been good and that we have prepared it well with our services. This was also approved by a very large majority. I believe that it has been approved almost unanimously, with the exception of a few abstentions by Flemish Interest. But it seems that we have a number of conversions. The judgment dealt with several articles of law, including those relating to the retention of identity documents and the notes on personal interviews in the CGVS, the confidentiality of certain data on which the CGVS bases itself for a decision on international protection, the provision on accelerated procedures, and the detention of an asylum seeker at the border. I have the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. What will recovery policy look like? Has your administration been working on this yet? When can we expect a legislative change? How often has the accelerated procedure on an unaccompanied minor stranger been initiated in the last five years? On what basis? I would like to have a split per year and the reason why the accelerated procedure was started. How often has an accelerated procedure been initiated in the last five years following an admissible multiple application, Article 57.6.1, with a year-by-year breakdown and reason for the technical refusal? How high will the additional cost of staff be as a result of this judgment as regards the provisions destroyed in connection with the accelerated procedure? After all, that will bring with it some extra work. How often has an applicant been detained for international protection at the border for the last five years, after the expiry of the four-week period, in accordance with Articles 57/6/4 and 74/5, been released, with a year-by-year breakdown? The answers to these latter questions may also be given in writing. The most important thing is what you're going to do with that important verdict.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u53	Mr Francken, I have indeed taken note of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The services and bodies concerned shall examine the impact of the judgment. Firstly, the necessary steps are taken to adapt the practice so that it complies with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. It is also being examined whether an amendment to the regulation is necessary, but this is not necessarily the case. For example, the accelerated procedure for unaccompanied minors and declared admissible multiple applications is not applied. The ruling of the Constitutional Court therefore has no impact on practice on this point. The pronunciation will have an impact on some other elements, such as providing a copy of the notes of the personal interview. Previously, the basic rule was that an applicant could request access to the hearing report during or shortly after the personal interview. In that case, the applicant had to be given the opportunity to submit observations, in principle before taking the decision. For a number of categories of files, e.g. applicants from safe countries of origin, it was sufficient that the copy was transferred together with the decision. The judgment therefore annulled this exception. In future, a copy of the hearing report will also have to be delivered to applicants belonging to these categories before the decision is taken. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I would ask you to submit your questions in writing which are a little more detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, that copy is one thing. As far as border controls are concerned, this is, of course, not the case for unaccompanied minors. So that is not entirely clear to me and I fear that we have a problem there. The confidentiality clause is certainly very difficult in the context of terrorism. If there have been certain revelations about human rights violations committed by someone who applies for asylum or who knows about it, this confidentiality is also a problem for the RV. We really need to find a better procedure for this because the legal basis is still shaky. So you're busy with the administration, and I'll get the figures later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u55	Belgium undertook to transfer a total of 1,463 persons to Belgium through resettlement in 2021. Moreover, it is not a new commitment, it is an open commitment from the past that could not be implemented earlier because of a capacity shortage in the reception network. The resettlement programme was restarted in the second half of 2020. The first arrivals were from September 2020. Travel under the resettlement programme is considered an essential journey for humanitarian reasons. The necessary measures are, of course, being taken to prevent contamination. Each transfer shall be organised in accordance with the national measures in force. Fedasil shall, in cooperation with the International Organisation for Migration, take the necessary measures before departure and after arrival. There is a medical check-up before departure, a mandatory test and quarantine before and after arrival. By carefully monitoring and monitoring the measures, it is possible to implement resettlement in a safe manner. This Wednesday, for example, a Syrian family with three young children arrives from Turkey. They could not travel with the previous group because of a positive test. The forced return is difficult because the flight offer is limited, as many limits are temporarily closed. Often, only ordinary travellers are accepted on the flight or their respective measures are imposed such as a negative covid test. I have already emphasised this in an earlier question. Belgium also considers travel in the context of forced return to be an essential journey. However, it is not obvious to convince some, often important, countries of origin of this. That's the big job we stand for. One of the questions before was about visa sanctions, but other questions are also about bilateral agreements with those countries. This will continue to be particularly important in the years to come, as in the past. Cooperation on the ground is already difficult under normal circumstances. That is what you have experienced in recent years. We have to do better than that. It is not because other countries sometimes impose exuberant demands or use covid to reduce cooperation on forced return, that our country should not comply with the agreements made. We need to convince those countries of that. Good bilateral contacts remain the final piece. I want to keep doing that, and I want to keep working on it. I don't want to end up in some kind of race to the bottom. Those who really need help should not be the victims of increasingly strict access conditions. Our resettlement programme must continue for those who really need help. In our Department of Asylum and Migration, we must see above all that those who really need help get help. We all know the figures for recognition and asylum. On average, about two thirds do not receive asylum after going through such a procedure. We must ensure that those who really need help and who have the right to international protection receive it. We must not abandon them. We need to focus on all those others who abuse the procedures, and on those countries that do not want to cooperate. We have to make sure we don't go to a race to the bottom but to a race to the sky.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, it does not happen often, but I think you are right here at 100%. I look forward to the concrete achievements of, among other things, those visa sanctions. I will continue to follow this, but what you have said is certainly the right path to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u57	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u58	Mrs Van Camp, I will do my best to answer your questions accurately and fully, but I must point out that, given the privacy legislation, I cannot give details of individual files. Since this concerns a limited number of people, it will violate the privacy of the data subjects, if I provide information on this. I have to be very careful about this. As I replied to your previous oral question on this subject, because of a limited number of places, the current covid measures only hold persons who can be assumed to be removed in a reasonable period of time. According to the EURODAC database, the persons cited were known in another Dublin State. There is no agreement for a takeover at the moment, but of course we are doing everything we can to achieve it. Apart from the dossier referred to, we must insist that the Dublin agreements are respected. As long as there is no new asylum and migration pact, that is the only way to strike a balance in the solidarity we expect from everyone. The Dublin Agreement must be respected, much more so than it has been in the past. So that too remains a very important issue. I can't go into specific questions for privacy reasons. With regard to the judicial sanctioning of such acts, I refer to the Minister of Justice. In the event of serious infringements, the public prosecutor may proceed to detention. A detention under the foreign law is only possible for the purpose of removal. A detention decision must be justified in fact and in law. I'm not a policeman or a judge, and I'm not gonna act like I am. I will therefore not comment on that part. I hope I have answered your question as well as I can within the margin I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, that is not really the case. You confine yourself to the answer you have already given. There was no agreement for the takeover in accordance with the Dublin procedure. From this I conclude that the illegal rioters get away with it. I think that is a very bad signal. Either they need to be held in the closed centers. Or an alternative sentence should have been imposed. I think it is a very bad signal that rioters are getting away with this, because there is no agreement yet on the takeover. Those people are probably on the territory right now with an order to leave the territory in their back pocket. They're gonna get out of here with these riots unpunished. I will come back to this, because I hope you will be able to reach an agreement on the takeover in accordance with the Dublin procedure and you will still be able to identify and identify those persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u60	Mrs Van Camp, I have already received this question in various forms and try not to repeat it. As I said earlier, the coaching of families at home is only part of the policy that is being developed in relation to families without legal residence. The goal is to return. Whether by coaching at home, by supervision or forced departure from a FITT residence or by return guidance from Fedasil, the goal remains the same. All measures leading to the follow-up of an order, both voluntary and guided and forced return, should be considered. There is no miracle solution, as we should have seen in recent years together, otherwise all my predecessors would have found it in the past. It is an en-en-story: and bet on voluntary return, and strengthen the guidance, and strengthen the forced return. As I have already explained, there is indeed a need for more. That is why we are evaluating possible alternatives to detention and on that basis we will consider which elements will be expanded and which new alternatives can be applied in the future. The specific project you are referring to will also be evaluated to see how it can be improved. Additional escorts are also recruited. This intensive return guidance is indeed an alternative to detention for families, but not the only one. This should be seen together with another existing alternative to detention, namely the FITT homes. These include more restrictions on freedom for those involved, because although the accompanying project is primarily aimed at self-employed or voluntary return, it does not stop there. A clinging policy also means that if the stranger does not comply with the order to leave the territory and he indicates that he will not or will not return, there will be forced departure. For families with minor children, forced return is organised from those FITT residences as an alternative to detention in a closed center.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u61	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, if I sum up your answer correctly, you are still working on an alternative, which is not yet available. You have always said that you would first submit the alternative to the government. I still haven't seen any white smoke about that. Until then, you will commute the existing offer, such as the FITT homes that you have expanded with coaching among other things. I don't know exactly how many families this is about. The figure you mentioned is about 2,765 files. However, you indicated that they should not all be counted as families or individuals. However, that is the figure I have at my disposal. They are approached with coaching as much as possible. That coaching started with 150 families, 50 of them refused. Of the 100 families in which the coaching started, two families have finally returned voluntarily, if I have understood the preliminary figures correctly. The previous question turned out to be so. That, if I may put it that way, is not a very great success. However, I understand that you are still working on your alternative to detention of illegal immigrants with children. We'll be happy to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I have already received three letters from you and your services on the local reception initiatives. I have a number of questions about this. During the debate on the budget and the government statement, we have already discussed the fact that the government agreement states that the LOIs are also reserved for vulnerable people. Then who exactly is it about? Now the LOIs are mainly reserved for people with a high degree of recognition, such as people from Syria. I do not really see what the situation is now, so I would like to have some explanation. You have publicly communicated that people with a high degree of recognition are still going to the LOIs and the others are not. You say that there is a very good chance that they will be allowed to stay here, so that they will start their integration. Is that still the case? Do you have any figures on this? Vulnerable people will also be caught in the LOIs. Vulnerable and high degree of recognition is, of course, something completely different. Which categories are considered vulnerable? Has any decision been taken within the government? This is an important issue, because there are, of course, many vulnerable people within the group of asylum seekers. One may even wonder whether the vast majority of these people are vulnerable. Some parties will consider them d'office vulnerable. If an asylum seeker arrives here after an illegal journey on which he has experienced a lot and asks for asylum in the West, he is a vulnerable person for some d'office. We can discuss this for hours. Has the government decided exactly what the category of vulnerable is? What are your plans for the LOIs? How many additional LOI places do you need? By when do you need it? How many places do you need for those vulnerable people? Who are these vulnerable people? What is the relationship between collective places and LOIs? I looked at that on Fedasil's website, but I'd like to know the evolution. How many buffer spaces do you provide? What does this mean for the municipalities? What's the estimated cost? Under what conditions can the municipalities have those buffer places?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u63	Mr President, I make a brief comment before referring to the written texts of my questions. We are well aware of the reception model as Mr Franken has just explained, since it has been in force for many years and it consists of dragging the most vulnerable to ILA places according to well-known criteria of operators and Fedasil. In this regard, I am therefore quite calmed. In addition, ILAs seem essential to the development of the reception model, so that people recognized in this direction can slide in order to provide individualised support. These structures are therefore undoubtedly necessary. I therefore imagine, Mr Secretary of State, that you will explain to us how to organize things in order to make them effective and to help the communes to respond to your call with confidence. You know that this confidence was broken when the former Secretary of State closed many squares, when the municipalities had been asked to open them, a few months earlier. So it won't be easy for you, as long as CPAS need confidence. Now we need to explain how you're going to restore it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that once again Mr Rigot is quite right to make a point about the need to restore confidence with local authorities. In recent years, local authorities have often been confronted with a reception policy in which very often all kinds of things have changed, on which local authorities have not always felt the right way to be involved. Me and my services have already sent letters to several mayors. I have also called mayors from the first moment that there could be a reception centre on their territory to engage in dialogue, which I believe is important. Recently, I also sent a letter to all the mayors who have been dealing with asylum centres for so long, so that we can fill out a survey so that we know exactly what is going on, what is going on and what is going badly in the communication between Brussels and the local authorities. We want to know whether the mayors think they are getting enough information or not. I can tell you a lot about that. There is rightly frustration among various local authorities. Further communication on this is not an answer to the question, but I would like to stress once again the great importance of restoring respect and trust between Brussels and local authorities. I'll be the best pen friend of all the mayors in this country. I have also written a letter to the local authorities with a local reception initiative to inform them of my policy plans and also to ask them for additional individual reception places in order to be able to accommodate re-established refugees. I want to focus on local reception initiatives for various reasons. Firstly, by embedding a local community and structures, local reception initiatives are an appropriate place to integrate people into our society who have received or are most likely to receive residence status. This integration is of fundamental importance. The faster people become integrated into our society, the better for everyone: for the refugee in question and for the community in which that person ends up. An additional advantage is that local reception initiatives are cheaper than placement in a collective reception centre. From a budgetary point of view, therefore, it is wise to use it. Finally, local reception initiatives also ensure a better spread across the territory and have a less significant impact on the neighbourhood and on local communities. No, that does not create additional collective centres for people who do not need them. On the contrary, we are going to have a greater spread of refugees with a high degree of recognition, so that we can integrate them much more quickly into our society. As the letter has been sent this month, and information sessions are yet to take place, we have not yet received any concrete proposals. Fedasil organises a total of four webinars for local authorities this week and next week, to provide additional information on the call to open additional places in ILA as part of the resettlement programme. Today, we still do not know if there will be enough places in ILA, but Fedasil will monitor this closely so that measures can be taken in time. The question of geographical distribution is not applicable, since no new places in ILA have yet been opened. Mr Francken, you have also asked a question about buffering. These are essential in order to avoid the yo-yo effect we have experienced in the past, creating places at a record rate at a time of need, and to ensure stability in the reception network. The number of buffer places shall be proportionate to the risk to be covered. It's kind of insurance. At present, Fedasil has a buffer capacity of 1,282 places. The exact number of places will have to be determined in the coming months. The aim is to create these places at the collective reception centres. That too may be important to stress, not to mix debates. For municipalities, this means that they will have collective reception centres on their territory with active reception places and buffer sites or buffer centres. The cost of these buffer places will depend on the owner of the site. That could be the Department of Defense, the Buildings Regie, or a private landlord. It will also depend on the required speed of activation. The cost must of course be kept as low as possible. I can't stress that enough. The additional LOI places are initially needed to accommodate the arrival of re-established persons. In February 156 people were resettled, and there will be a total of 1,463 this year. We have already discussed this in this committee today. That is a commitment that has been recorded in the past and that we now wish to live up to. The persons concerned are staying for six months on arrival in a local reception initiative, which means that we must also provide them with sufficient LOI places. We are, of course, dependent on the willingness of local authorities to sign in on this. I therefore hope that sufficient local authorities will be found willing to do so. "Vulnerable persons" means persons who, for medical or psychological reasons, are placed in a local reception initiative because a collective centre is not an appropriate place for them. The situation is analysed case by case by case by medical service. Some may certainly think that everyone is a vulnerable person, perhaps we are all vulnerable in this world, but that needs to be looked at on a case-by-case basis. These are people for whom collective care is not suitable. Examples of vulnerable persons assigned to individual care are today persons vulnerable to COVID-19, but also specifically persons with severe physical or mental disabilities such as autism. Reception in a local reception initiative for vulnerable people who are not recognised or who are not covered by the conditions of the high level of protection remains, of course, an exception. Since the beginning of the year, the allocation of these vulnerable persons to LOIs represented less than 2% of all allocations to individual housing. Less than 2%, this shows once again that this analysis examines on a case-by-case basis how vulnerable a person is. That is also strictly respected. There is therefore no fixed number of places in the local reception initiatives reserved for vulnerable persons. However, it is very important for these people that an individual place is always available. After all, no one will dispute that a person who has a heavy form of autism needs individual care. Vulnerability is considered on a case-by-case basis, which seems to me to be the best method. Therefore, a revision of the definition of vulnerability does not seem necessary in the immediate future. Currently, the number of individual reception points is around 45% of the reception network. The aim is not to seek a fixed relationship between individual and collective reception places, but rather to ensure that everyone is included in the most appropriate reception facilities. With sufficient buffer positions in the collective reception network, there should be a rapid response to rising or falling reception needs and greater stability for local reception initiatives. It is important to emphasise that. We must ensure that local reception goes to those people who either already have refugee status or have a high chance of being recognised. After all, it is not always easy to send back someone who is not recognised. We have to be very precise about that. That is why we are keeping the local reception for the resettled group, today in large numbers, and in a very limited number for the people with a high chance of recognition, in the hope that we will be able to integrate them more quickly. For example, local reception initiatives can focus on their primary task of welcoming vulnerable target groups, people with high protection rates, resettled refugees and recognized refugees in transition. After consulting the associations of the cities and the municipalities, it became clear to me that the essential thing is to work towards greater clarity in the financial conditions for the latter. This includes clarifying the use of reserves that some municipalities have accumulated over the years. It is also a question of the stability of the number of places and of the certainty of not having to climb and descend constantly. I would like once again to point out that it is important to have a certain structure and respect for the local level, which I will continue to show over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, it is good to have the debate on this issue. After reading the coalition agreement, I thought that vulnerable people were defined in such a way as to be able to assign more to LOIs. But if the situation remains the same, as Mr Rigot said, and the intention is not to treat individuals collectively but individually, depending on the outcome, for example in the case of autism, then I can of course follow that logic, let that be clear. There has been uncertainty about this for months and I welcome your explanation. There is, of course, the fundamental debate. We have tabled a motion for a resolution and will undoubtedly have the debate on the subject in the Chamber in the coming months. I call for the gradual phasing out of local reception initiatives and the maintenance of collective care alone, as in many neighbouring countries, with the exception of very extreme cases such as extreme autism or autism spectrum disorder. Then one must consider what is still possible. Generally speaking, a collective shelter would be much better, especially since I am convinced that individual apartments and houses as a shelter have a suction effect. You ask me if I would rather have a large new collective centre in Antwerp or Lubbeek. I opened a very big one, in full crisis. I took responsibility there. It wasn't easy. I was blamed for that in Lubbeek, but well, we won the election after that, so it wasn't that bad. I don't necessarily argue for large centres. Besides, Antwerp already has one. Our motion for a resolution states that there is no need for a second, where there is already one, and we ask for a maximum of one per city or village. That's enough. Sint-Niklaas has two, that's not obvious, I don't have to tell you. In the phasing-out scenario in which you try to reduce the influx of asylum and reduce the backlog, that is your ambition. Then there is no need to open a new center at all. Gradually, one is replaced by the other. That's how I'd like to see it. I like to get your letters. I read them, too. Of course, we also discuss this in our college and OCMW council. You say you need to restore confidence with the mayors. I don't have the impression that trust has been damaged. I've never experienced it like that. I haven't experienced in recent years that all the mayors were angry with me. Of course, one should not open and close a centre too often. That's obvious. Of course, that is not pleasant for the organisation and budget of the OMCW. There were no mayors present to my cabinet in 2018. There were a lot of demonstrations there, but I didn't see them there. There will always have been anger, but that will probably have been for political reasons and not necessarily for substantive reasons. I've received your survey and we'll be sure to fill it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u66	Mr President, I will be brief because the discussion has been very clear. We see the approaches of the Secretary of State. We see the essential role of ALAs in the process for vulnerable audiences and, moreover, for resettlement and recognized audiences who live and settle in our home and, therefore, the essential role of integration – a mission of municipalities and CPAS. I am pleased with the answer given and I see, in the same spirit, that we can agree with Mr Franken on the important meaning of these ILAs in terms of the reception of vulnerable people and recognised audiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, I refer to my question. I have seen and heard that a question on labour migration has been asked earlier today. I suspect there will be a overlap, but I leave it to your wisdom to judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u68	Thank you for your question, Mr Segers. Indeed, a number of elements have already been addressed in the question put by Mr Van Langenhove. I have clarified in my reply that I am pleased that there will be an electronic platform for the single permit, which will start in a test phase next week, and that it will hopefully be able to be fully rolled out in May. Your question also gives me the opportunity to address another important aspect of the platform, in particular the fight against abuse and social fraud. Indeed, the electronic platform Working in Belgium has an important link with the National Social Security Office, on which my fellow ministers of Economics and Labour and Social Affairs and Health will undoubtedly be able to provide more detailed information. Social inspection services will be able to access employment and residence data through the electronic platform in order to make a correct assessment of the situation of the employee and employer to be checked. This will allow more targeted control. The consultation of the data in the platform by the regional and federal inspection services is governed by the Executive Cooperation Agreement of 5 March 2021. In order to optimise use by inspection services, further technical and legislative developments will take place in phase 3 of the project. The National Social Security Office has the lead in this. The scope of the platform is currently limited to the single authorisation procedure. My services and the RSZ examine the extent to which data can be accessed through the platform for persons who have access to the labour market on the basis of their right of residence, or whether such information should be directly requested by the inspection services through the existing applications at the authentic source, in this case the National Register. Employers are also asking for access to such data. We'll see if and how that's possible. The main objective of the project is to achieve more transparent, efficient and therefore shorter procedures. The envisaged information access should also help social inspection services to carry out more targeted controls. Whether additional resources are provided for additional inspection services, you should ask my fellow ministers responsible for the various social inspection services. As regards your reference to the abuse of the Dutch simplified procedure for knowledge migrants, I too have read the article in De Groene Amsterdammer with attention. I can assure you of that. The Foreign Affairs Office carries out a public policy and national security check in the files of combined permits. This is done in accordance with the modalities agreed with the various security services. In addition, the DVZ also checks whether the data subject is known in another database, such as the ANG or the SIS. As regards your third question, I can tell you that both the employer and the future employee will have access to the online file. The single permit does not provide for a specific complaint mechanism for foreigners who end up in poor working conditions. They can, of course, make use of the normal procedures under social criminal law. For this, you can go to the ministers mentioned. The single permit is, as a rule, linked to the employer. However, if the employment is terminated prematurely for reasons other than public policy, the person concerned will normally be given a period of three months within which he can find another job and apply for a new single permit before my services terminate the single permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u69	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the comprehensive answer. I welcome what you have already achieved, because for Vooruit administrative simplification is an important element. We need to focus on digitisation and automation, something that has also come up in the chapter on asylum and migration at Vooruit's request. I am referring to the passage in the government agreement on the extensive digitisation of internal administrative processes. This is important not only for efficiency but also for better control, including in the fight against social dumping. So I am very pleased with the steps that have been taken in a short time, after far too much time has been lost to me. I am also looking forward to the follow-up and, in particular, to that phase 3 you spoke of. Of course, you are right to refer me to some of your colleagues in the government. I will also ask them some questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u70	Mr President, Secretary of State, there has been a new asylum website of the CGVS online since this week. There's some explanation there. I have written a bit with some reservations about this and I would like to present two of them to you. Firstly, I find it strange that there is a separate heading on multiple asylum applications. There are four headings, one on multiple asylum applications. You say that this is just to make it clear that we really need new elements and that the application will be rejected otherwise. I don't think it's obvious to put such a website online anyway. I am, of course, in favour of clear and clear public communication to target groups. I used to be responsible for administrative simplification. It is very important that we do so, and I do not have such a problem with the sharing of information in different languages, but I do have some questions about the heading on multiple asylum applications. We must be very careful when communicating about this. That sounds really weird. The government should, as far as possible, discourage multiple asylum applications and I doubt that this will do enough with that website. I looked at him again this morning, and it's hard. Secondly, there is no mention whatsoever of the return on the website. I think that's weird. You publish a website in nine languages that has cost quite a bit of money. That is my question: what is the cost of the website, who made it, did you put out a tender for it and how long did it last? The website only refers to one point with a link to the DVZ, because the asylum application has to be submitted there, but for the rest nothing is said about the return. I really think that's a missed opportunity. Last month seven out of ten asylum applications were rejected, so you should also put a part about the return on the website. That seems to me to be the least one can expect when putting something like this online, with a press release and everything. That is allowed, because we have to communicate about the policy, but I think that the return should also be given a place in it and I do not see that on the website. I think that's a little weird. How do you rate the website? Is it final or can things be changed? Did you ask for any modifications? What was the cost? Which private companies were involved at what price?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u71	Mr President, Mr Francken, the website was launched this week by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. It should also not surprise anyone that the website was launched last week, as it was already foreseen since 2016. I think it's a great project, because a lot of work, time and expertise has crawled into it. It is important that applicants are properly informed rather than receiving wrong advice from smugglers, for example. Here I refer again to the struggle to get the right information to the people. An accessible website, available in many languages, with accessible videos should also provide a piece of it. The CGVS, as an independent asylum authority, has a legal obligation to inform the asylum seeker correctly about the asylum procedure. Two thirds to seven out of ten asylum seekers today do not receive asylum. That is another reason to make it quite clear what the procedures are and who is entitled to asylum and who is not. Of course, other elements are needed to see that figure drop firmly. Informing people correctly is certainly part of that. The Procedural Directive states that applicants should be provided with legal and procedural information free of charge, taking into account their particular circumstances. Such information should, inter alia, enable the applicant to better understand the procedure and thus help them to fulfil the obligations in question. The purpose of this website is therefore to inform the asylum seekers themselves as opposed to the existing website of the CGVS which is mainly used by professionals. The content of the website was created by the CGVS staff, in consultation with many stakeholders such as Fedasil, DVZ, UNHCR and civil society. Indeed, I read that you criticise the fact that the CGVS explains the multiple asylum applications. The intention is to inform people correctly. It is important that applicants also receive information on the importance of new elements in a subsequent request. They do not need the website to submit a multiple asylum application, as witnessed by the number of people doing so. That is why I am sorry and have responded to you. Basically, you say that the government is encouraging people to apply for multiple asylum. However, it is not. It is really the intention to inform people precisely because we see that a lot of people submit multiple applications and we have to provide answers to them. A number of answers are not on a website. We must, of course, also work on that migration code. It is important to inform people correctly and to engage in the information struggle. It is important that these people know that they cannot simply apply for a new application and that they have no chance unless they have new elements in their file. There are several actors throughout that network who believe that by submitting a multiple application they still have a chance, despite the fact that there are no new elements at all. Hence the battle we are fighting and hence this element is on the website. I think it's very good that it's there. Asylum seekers really do not need to be inspired by this, quite the contrary. We must make it clear in writing what the rules are. As mentioned above, the first steps for the CGVS website were already taken in 2016 as part of an AMIF project. The website was largely financed by AMIF funds. Cronos Public Services vouched for the videos and for the development of the prototype of the website. The cost was 72.282 euros. In addition, Blue4You vouched for the configuration in nine language versions in the content management interface. The cost of this was EUR 38 569. The translation and dubbing of the videos were done by Elan and cost 12,250 euros. The total cost of externals, charged to AMIF, was 110,851 euro. The total cost of externals, charged to the Commissioner-General, was 12,250 euros. A CGVS employee charged to AMIF costs 28,270 euros. One last element I would like to mention is that, as far as return is concerned, we must ensure that we inform people correctly. We work on digitization and websites with correct information. I have already said a number of times in this committee that, for example, we need to make much more use of social media in order to reach those target groups. In the past, we often tried to reach people all over the world with articles in local newspapers. We must now proceed in a completely different and innovative way. We are working on this and we will have to make sure that we invest in the workforce. We also need to inform people correctly about return. The digital road is the right way and you can count on me to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u72	Mr Secretary of State, as far as the distress is concerned, I was the first to carry out distress campaigns in different languages via social media. I once waged a social media campaign in Arabic in and around Baghdad because suddenly many Iraqis came from Baghdad. That was a great success. I don't think there's ever been a government website that was visited as much as that website in a few hours. However, that distress campaign was immediately taken offline by Mrs De Block. I hadn't even signed my resignation letter yet. I was at that time with my supporters in Lubbeek in a crowded room, where it was so hot that people fainted from the warmth and the emotion. I hadn't signed my resignation letter physically yet, so it wasn't with the King yet, but Mrs. De Block, or the head of the FOD, had already taken my distress campaigns offline. I would just like to say that you can expect some resistance. They thought the images and the language were too loud. That can be discussed. I'm quite clear, because I think that's necessary, especially in the middle of it. Asylum seekers hear so many stories, from smugglers and others, that they wonder what to believe. That's why I think it's better to communicate clearly and not get too many wipes around. I have nothing against a website with information in itself. Clear government communication is always good. I do not think that the issue of multiple asylum applications is obvious, but you know that, and you are defending it. I understand your defense, but I'm still holding my doubts. I think it's a missed opportunity not to return to that website. You say that you are doing so, but actually there should also be a part about return on the website asyluminbelgium.be. This website will be widely visited, especially since it is available in the contact language of the asylum seekers, who usually only understand their own language. That information is available in its own language is therefore nicely done. I have seen that Zana has been used for the website, a sweet girl who looks like this at least from Syria, and she does that very well. However, I believe that honesty requires that information should also be provided in case it is a no, which applies to a very large number of cases. I think that's a missed opportunity. That the website was launched in 2016 via AMIF resources is fine. However, as Secretary of State, I would only have put that online and authorized if there was also a sufficiently strong part about return.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u73	Mr Secretary of State, the backlog of asylum files continues to increase considerably, even if the influx is low. In any case, international migration movements have never been so low by a year of corona. So the delay in the files is piling up. What action will you take, Mr Secretary of State? What have you done already? You have extra resources for the staff. What actions can we expect? What's the timing to catch up? That's not gonna work for a while, I've seen it. I noticed that there have been fewer decisions in the last month than new applications. Or it came up right away, I should check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u74	Thank you, Mr Francken, for your question, of which I saw a small teaser in the social media, with a bit more sharpness than here. The joint work stock of the DVZ and the CGVS has remained fairly stable over the past few months. The DVZ currently manages to get rid of its working stock, giving us more pending files at the CGVS. For example, the CGVS' working stock increased in 2021, despite the fact that the CGVS took more decisions in January and February than requests were made. I do not need to explain to you that this is a process: if the file continues with the DVZ, it will end up with the CGVS. The output of the CGVS was therefore higher than the inflow. As I have explained on several occasions, it is my objective to strengthen the services concerned in the coming years. We have negotiated the government agreement well for this, where the government has deliberately chosen to invest heavily in the Department of Asylum and Migration, especially in staffing and structural strengthening of the department. A large proportion of those who have to wait for a decision are in the reception network, which means that the costs of reception are still very high. I would like to see quicker procedures for clarifying their future more quickly: integration in Belgium in a positive decision and return in a negative decision. The sooner asylum seekers receive an answer, the easier it is to see them return in a negative decision. It is, of course, highly specialised services which require the necessary knowledge and experience. The impact of these services is not increased in one-two-three. The previous government has already taken steps to recruit 120 additional protection officers from the CGVS. However, the covidcontext has made the training of the new employees more difficult and the number of interviews has been limited by the restrictive measures and by more cancellations due to the illness or quarantine of one of the persons concerned, the applicant, the protection officer, the interpreter, the lawyer and or the guardian. If one person is ill and may have contracted covid, we must, of course, be careful. In the meantime, output is increasing again at the Commissioner-General. In February, the Commissioner-General took 1,577 decisions, representing 1,853 people. It is to be expected that this output will increase in the coming months, with the aim that the Commissioner-General will also be able to deal with further delays. In the future, too, I will do everything I can to further strengthen the various agencies in the asylum chain, to reduce the working stock in a short time and to keep it structurally sufficiently low. I will soon make a proposal to the Council of Ministers for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to make a correction. I've just added the numbers. 1,853 applicants for international protection received a decision and there were 1,422 new applications in February. It is true, therefore, that we are catching up, step by step. I wish you well. I've succeeded, too. That wasn't obvious. You have those resources, too. I hope we can do it now. This delay in asylum is remarkable, when we know that the influx has been very low for a long time. Even with corona, there are still so many asylum applications in our country. That is, at least, very remarkable. I do not know whether this is placed in a European perspective. I will check next weekend whether the number of applications for asylum in our neighbouring countries remains high, or whether this is only the case with us. I think that's an interesting study. In any case, it is good that a number of actions are being taken. I am particularly concerned about the backlog of 10,000 files. However, it will hopefully improve step by step. It really must be an absolute priority of your policy to get rid of the backlog as quickly as possible. After all, this costs tens of millions of euros, especially in reception costs. In that sense, I hope that we will have to get below 10,000 as soon as possible, perhaps in a few months' time. That 10,000 is a bit of a symbol. I saw it because I study the CGVS figures every month. I was shocked, which is why I tabled the question. I look forward to the action plan that you will propose to the Council of Ministers. I will see it on Friday afternoon in the press release of belgium.be. I look forward to that every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u76	There is the delay in the asylum services, but there is also the delay in the RV. That's been a pain for years. I started with a delay of 30,000 files. When I left, there were about 20,000 left. One-third of them have walked in, but it is still a delay of 20,000 files. That's a number to fall from when they tell the man in the street. What is the current state of affairs, per contenteux and per language role? Normally I do not want to bother you with that and I can see this in the annual report, but it is not yet online. I don't know when that's gonna come. My second question is when will the 2020 annual report be published? What's your action plan? What will you do to finally get rid of the backlog? It is a real shame that there is such a great delay in the justice system. It's about an administrative court, and that's painful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u77	Thank you, Mr Francken, for your question, which certainly needs to be given a great deal of attention. The delay must be effectively eliminated further. The RV's delay relates to files of more than six months in which no final judgment has yet been delivered in respect of the actions brought. By the end of 2020, the delay in the French language role was 8,887 files in cancellation contentieux and 337 files in full jurisdiction. For the Dutch language role, there are 425 files in cancellationcontentieux and 433 files in full jurisdiction. You heard the numbers. I suspect you will make a comment on this later. I can only tell that the difference is great. The annual report 2020 will be published shortly on the website of the RvV. I don't have a specific date, but you'll be able to count on it very soon. It is my clear objective to strive for shorter procedures. I will also go to the Council of Ministers to achieve the necessary reinforcements here too. There is certainly a need for further reforms to strengthen the RV. This has, I feel, been underinvestment in recent years. Since I took office, we have reached an agreement in the Council of Ministers on the possibility for the RV to communicate electronically with the process parties, which is essential for a modern and efficient court of law. A scenario was also developed to enable, in difficult circumstances such as last year's corona measures, which limited the number of sessions, to switch to a written procedure in certain cases, so that there is no unnecessary delay. We will also increase the number of magistrates to make a catch-up move. A bill is in preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, I will read the annual report when it is online. They're documents I like to read. This is also the case as a Member of Parliament, in order to be able to control the government and the administration properly. If you put everything together, it's a delay of 10,000 files. I regret to note that there is also a delay in some 800 cases in full jurisdiction. These are asylum files. That number should go to zero as soon as possible. After all, it is very difficult that this also leads to reception costs. That costs a lot of money, even if it is a LOI, which is cheaper than a collective center. It's very expensive anyway. In your next meeting with the first President, you should nevertheless stress the need to eliminate the backlog, as a matter of priority in full jurisdiction. There are still many cancellations along the French-speaking side. That's been a problem for years. There are two major problems, and for the RvV this delay can be found mainly on the French-speaking side. There is, of course, also the unity of justice. I know that the first chairman is of good will and it really means well. That's my impression, isn't it? It's still a hard nut to crack. You say you want to recruit more magistrates. I really don't know if that'll give you a good signal. I think there are plenty of magistrates inside the RV. It would be better to carry out a workload measurement, both N and F, and to look at the framework of the magistrates. I think there really are enough magistrates. We've recruited so many more. We had to vote on a bill from former Minister De Block in the summer because she forgot to file it. This had to be done through the PS and an amendment that had nothing to do with it. That was really embarrassing. Of course, you have no responsibility for that. I repeat that it is too much to recruit magistrates of good. Everyone admits that there are plenty of magistrates inside the RV. Many of them work very hard. However, there are others that still have some margin to express euphemistically. Focus on this instead of recruiting. Remember that those people have been appointed for life and that they are the highest wages and pensions we have in the government. I will, of course, read your draft law, but the chance that the N-VA will support it is very small if it means that new recruitments will follow. We have already adopted the PS proposal on the extension of the framework in the summer. I'll see you there. Now, to return to the story of the need to appoint additional judges, that is something I absolutely cannot agree with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u79	Mr. Moutquin, when the Aliens Office makes a decision, it always takes into account all the elements contained in the administrative file. The files are analysed and processed on a case-by-case basis according to the elements specific to each case, including the vulnerability or age of the person concerned. The specific influence of the pandemic on the medical situation of each person is also repeated in the analysis. When an elderly person is kept in a closed centre, it is only after the Aliens Office has meticulously examined the possibility and appropriateness of the retention. The detention of persons must be possible. One cannot look at a single parameter of a file and decide on that basis whether or not detention is justified. During the stay in a closed centre, the social service, in collaboration with the medical service, provides psychological and social support to the person concerned during his stay in the centre and prepares him for his eventual removal. I visited the closed centres and talked with the people who care for psychological and social support. On the day we get out of our home, I invite you to do the same because there is remarkable social and psychological work in closed centres and we do not emphasize it enough. The social service shall accompany the occupant in order to ensure compliance with the decision taken as to his or her residence situation. Article 74/13 of the Act of 15 December 1980 transposes the article of a return directive. This Article stipulates that when implementing the Return Directive, Member States must take due account of the best interests of the child, family life and health and must respect the principle of non-refoulement. In addition, the Aliens Office is obliged to respect the principle of due diligence as a general principle of good administration. This obligation is also subject to review by the EAC. In that sense, I do not see why an amendment to section 74/13 of the Act of 15 December 1980 would be necessary. As mentioned in my political note, we are working on an effective remedy in which the legality and appropriateness of detention can be verified by the judge. This issue will be discussed further in the context of the work on the Migration Code which we have been working on for weeks and on which we will continue to work for a long time during the rest of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u80	Mr Secretary of State, I am not going to comment on my evenings or on my compliance with the rules, unlike my President. The extinction of voices is not at all due to an evening. Thank you for worrying about it! I have heard your answer and thank you for it. The first point is very important. This is the work that you are preparing to be able to decide on the opportunity to lock up. This is simply a matter of logic. My question about the amendment of the Act was simply about matching a practice at the level of the CGRA and a practice at the level of the Aliens Office. Having said that, I find that, in this crisis, in general, beyond migrants, the question of age is sometimes used when it helps us and forgets us when it helps us less. We know, for example, in the vaccination strategy, that we have a certain automatic character depending on certain audiences and age. On the other hand, when it comes to confinement and issuing orders to leave the territory, age is taken into account in the same way as any other set of criteria. I didn't ask you about this because I know you're not going to rule on personal files, but a 78-year-old is in a closed centre. A whole series of questions arise. Why, in the context of the pandemic, are these people recognized as people at risk, but not especially in a closed centre? What will happen to this person once he or she is dismissed? To which country will she be returned? How is the pandemic managed in this country for these people, etc.- Is that what you're saying? These issues could be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u81	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, of course we all know that the vaccination campaign that has been launched is very important to get out of this health crisis. The vaccine not only protects ourselves from disease, but also the people around us. I read that more than 70% of the population should be vaccinated with a vaccination effectiveness of 90% in order to speak of group immunity. Depending on the effectiveness of the vaccine, the percentage of the population to be vaccinated is sometimes even higher. It is therefore very important that as many people as possible have the opportunity to be vaccinated, and that they are also effectively vaccinated. That is why it is very important for us to pay special attention to so-called vulnerable groups. Within your area of competence, Mr Secretary of State, I am thinking of asylum seekers, refugees, people with precarious status, and people without legal residence. In particular, as far as the latter group is concerned, we can only rely on estimates of numbers, since we cannot know the actual number by definition. It is clear that it is a large group, which we must not overlook when it comes to the vaccination strategy. I come to my questions. How will vaccination go for people in an ongoing asylum procedure? Others have also put questions about this. How will vaccination work for people without legal residence? Is there a number of vaccines reserved for this group? Is there some of them stuck up there? How will it be taken into account that this group is still suspicious of official bodies? Can these people be led to the vaccination centres, or will we try to reach this target group by other means? It is therefore possible to use vaccines that only need one shot, so that these people do not have to register their data for a follow-up shot. If they are to be reached twice, it will of course make the process difficult. It could be that if they had to leave data, they would not be inclined to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u82	Mr President, I will be brief, since Mrs Platteau has very well summarized all the questions I wanted to address. First of all, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to receive further information on my question of 9 March on the vaccination strategy in reception facilities. Do you have any new information on the method used? Secondly, as Ms Platteau pointed out, the question also concerns all persons who, for various reasons, are not included in the reception network. As we know, the key to success against the virus is vaccination, which must be extended to as many people as possible to achieve collective immunity. It is not the statutes that contribute to it, but the population as a whole – including all those who are deprived of status in our territory. It must be as extensive as possible to protect all of us. Mr Secretary of State, are specific measures envisaged to include in the vaccination strategy migrants who are not yet – for whatever reason – in the host network or who will not be part of it? You know that I refer in particular to the situation of transmigrants in Waremme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. This week, after the advice of the Federal Task Force Vaccinations, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health decided that the collective reception structures of Fedasil and the partners will be vaccinated within phase 2, i.e. when the general population will arrive. The effective start depends on the effective delivery of the vaccines. Residents are vaccinated on a voluntary basis like all of us. The focus will be on awareness-raising and a number of residents over the age of 65 have already been called by immunization centres. Residents over the age of 65 and with a risk profile will be called upon to be vaccinated through the vaccination centres. The vaccinations of the other residents in the collective reception structures will continue as far as possible in the reception centres themselves and under the supervision of the medical services of these reception centres. The staff and residents of the closed centres will be vaccinated as a collective structure within phase 2, so also when the general population comes in. For these two types of centres and due to the regularity of rotation and transfers, the use of a single-dose vaccine is of course recommended. As regards the question of vaccination of persons illegally staying in our country, the task force will determine in the near future what is the best way of vaccination. I have already expressed my opinion in committee on the importance of vaccinating everyone, regardless of someone's residence permit or the absence of a residence permit in this country. General public health is served by this. There was also a demand that measured the cost of vaccination. This will depend on the type of vaccine that will be used. As we do not yet have an idea of this for the time being, it is impossible to estimate the costs. It is always good to ask questions about the cost of everything: of return policy, reception policy, asylum policy, our pensions and our health care. That is always good, so that we know what we are talking about. I must confess that when I read the question, the first thing I thought was that in my opinion that question of all possible questions is the least relevant. If you ask me what the cost of a person who dies of COVID-19 is, I can answer that very easily, without having to contact services. After all, the answer is priceless. Every person who dies of COVID-19 is one person too many who dies. I will be able to give the cost at some point when we know which vaccines are involved. I'd be happy to give it to you when the vaccines arrive. I will be very happy to see that we have vaccinated everyone in particular and that as few people as possible are infected with the covid virus. After all, that is the battle we must face. In my opinion, therefore, the question was somewhat ludicrous. That could be me. It is not necessarily the questioner's fault, and I sincerely believe that. However, it is important to emphasise this. I hope that we all share the message that we all think it is important that everyone gets vaccinated and that we all get out of the pandemic. We must, of course, ensure that we get cheap vaccines for everything and everyone, because we also have to think about our portfolio. Apart from the cost, we all believe that anyone who gets infected and dies from that virus is a person too much. That is the battle we must fight together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u84	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is not entirely clear to me what is meant by'same in phase 2'. At the same time, we cannot, of course, vaccinate both the general population and the collective centres. One track for the other. If the vaccines are available, will they wait until the entire population is vaccinated, and will they then be the collective centres and asylum centres? I don't see how it can go together in phase two. A vaccine can only be available at one time and only given at one time. How exactly does it work and what exactly is the timing of it? Does that include the staff? It seems relevant to me to inoculate staff working in a centre with a collective structure at an earlier stage, but I do not know if that is possible. I had also asked a question about the illegals, but you answered that the best way is still to be found. I would like to return to that at a later meeting. You didn't tell me what would happen if you refused. You say, correctly, that we must protect everyone. Anyone who has been vaccinated is no longer a danger to themselves, but may still be a danger to others. What happens in the event of a refusal is not clear to me, so I would also like to come back to that later. Finally, you say that the costs are the least relevant question of all, but I do not think so. I think we have the right to request that information. You've turned off a whole litany to explain why you don't think that's relevant. We notice that you hide these figures every time and that you do not like to talk about them. I don't understand why. In the meantime, you have not mentioned the figures either, so I will be happy to ask them in writing, because I think that information is very important. If there is an effective fair asylum and migration policy here, as you said in response to a previous question, then people who really need support will be targeted. In my question I made it clear that we have a population where more than two out of three people do not really appear to be asylum seekers at all. More than two thirds of applicants for international protection do not appear to be refugees at all and are not entitled to international protection. In the light of these figures, I think it is important that we also consider the costs. You disagree with me on this, of which I take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u85	Mr President, I take note of the fact that our Secretary of State does not calculate his migration policy and does not relate the cost-life of migrants. Thank you very much. Perhaps this is the return to a human migration policy. As far as staff are concerned, I agree with the previous speaker on this point. The staff of the Fedasil centres, in particular, must be quickly protected even from promiscuity given the characteristics of their workplace. The last remaining question, which has already been discussed in this committee, remains the case of undocumented persons estimated at 100 000 in Brussels, or 7% of the Brussels resident population. The stakes are fundamental and are not obvious. I can only encourage you, even if it is true that contacts have already been made, to rely on local structures and associations. Médecins du Monde, for example, has expertise on the issues of homelessness and people without a residence permit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u86	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I agree with my colleague from Ecolo. I share your view of the vaccination strategy. I remember that the Task Force on Vaccination is still working on a strategy for the people without legal residence. I think it is very important to work with NGOs who know the target group very well and who know how best to reach them. This is not an ideological discussion. This requires a pragmatic approach. It's about the health of all of us. It is important to get the vaccination rate in our society as high as possible, so that we can resume our old lives as soon as possible. Mrs Van Camp asked what we are going to do with asylum seekers who refuse. We have not made vaccination mandatory for the ordinary population. I don't think we should impose other rules on other groups. I think one should be careful to suggest such things.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic425x.u87	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, thank you for your answers. As far as Fedasil's reception centres are concerned, but also partners, I plead to make it a real priority for both residents and staff, because staff are really in a front-line job, a contact job. If, so far, the management strategy co-vides in the collective reception facilities is impressive in effectiveness, I really plead for them because, at some point, it really creates stress for every worker to go to his or her place of work with fear of being contaminated. Indeed, this invisible virus has no borders and everyone is afraid to bring it back to their loved ones. With regard to the vaccination of undocumented persons in particular, there is no doubt that the emphasis will have to be placed on communication. Myria, Unia drew attention to the difficulties of reaching these vulnerable people because they do not have access to communication, because they are cut off or have no confidence. We really will have to work on this mode of communication. Finally, Secretary of State, you are obviously right. Vaccination is priceless and I am amazed by the question. We're not talking about luxury here. We're talking about a state of necessity. The vaccine must certainly be a good accessible to all. I can't believe it! How can people be opposed? I don't have words. In fact, my group has tabled a motion for a resolution to make the covid-19 vaccine a global public good. Unfortunately, I think I know who will not follow us on this path. Thank you, Secretary of State.
