ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u1	Madam President, Minister, a survey by Acerta, VUB and HR Square shows that four out of ten companies in our country are making structural efforts to promote mental well-being at work. Forty-three percent of companies have a structural plan to promote the well-being of their staff. A third of the companies that have developed measures on well-being at work did so purely on gut feeling. Just under five of the companies are not yet taking concrete action to improve the well-being of their employees, despite the corona crisis. These are notable figures, because almost all companies at the same time indicate that they consider well-being to be important at work. Of the companies that did make efforts to improve their well-being on the (home) workplace last year, only one in five employers measure their impact. It's for a lot of employers looking for handles. The will is there, but it keeps looking. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What conclusions do you draw from the findings of the survey mentioned above? What are the possibilities for companies today to measure well-being in homework and to watch over this? What additional measures will you take to make it easier for companies to measure and monitor well-being structurally?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u2	Minister, could you tell us what time you are available?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u3	Madam President, I am in principle available until 12:30 p.m. I have another meeting starting at 12:30.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. So everyone knows.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u5	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Over the last few weeks, I've been receiving a lot of questions from you about mental well-being at work. Various studies were also published, such as the Acerta survey on the mental health of all Belgians, which has been under enormous pressure in the last year. Of course, this includes the working population. I would like to stress that I share your concern and that the situation does not look rosy. The health crisis has highlighted the importance of well-being and safety at work. The social dialogue between the social partners has shown its relevance at all levels, whether at the level of the CPPTs, at sectoral level or at the level of the Higher Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. Well-being at work is a government priority. Over the past few weeks, I have worked on a first plan to combat stress at work, in collaboration with my colleagues, Ms. Petra De Sutter and Mr. Frank Vandenbroucke and David Clarinval. Over the course of a decade, Belgium has seen a sharp increase in the number of people who are absent and then move away from their work for long periods of time due to illness. The situation is, of course, likely to get worse because the health crisis has a major impact on the mental health of the population. Most active Belgians have been confronted with the isolation or imbalance between work and private life which both cause a loss of meaning. In an attempt to defuse this imbalance, the federal government is issuing an envelope of €5.5 million. The approach will take place in three specific phases, depending on whether you are an employee, an independent employee or an official. In the first two phases, we want to address the current problematic situation with direct and concrete initiatives. In addition to a major awareness campaign, a budget of EUR 1.5 million has been made available to workers. These resources are intended for those sectors which have suffered greatly from the crisis and which, together with the social partners in the sector, will launch initiatives on the increased psychosocial risks at work. The federal government is also committed to developing a federal plan for mental resilience to work for the coming years. In this respect, my priority is also to give every opportunity to social dialogue and to take into account the priorities of the social partners. They are the ones who know the best about the situation at work. It is therefore obvious to me that they must be involved as much as possible and that we must work together to find the most effective solutions. In March last year, the social partners had already formulated a list of priorities. I have recently asked them to update the note, if necessary, and to consider, in the light of the current health crisis, whether other priorities should be added. Europe is also asking us to develop a national strategy for well-being at work this year. In doing so, we will consult all stakeholders to come up with a plan with broad support. We will also take into account the evaluation of burn-out projects by the social partners at the National Labour Council in March and April. As indicated in the Government Agreement, special attention will be paid to those sectors that have suffered the most from the consequences of the Corona crisis. But I reiterate my commitment to make further efforts to improve the well-being of all workers, regardless of their sector of activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u6	Madam President, Minister, yesterday I missed my first action in 30 years because I am in quarantine until tomorrow normally. That doesn't stop me from being actively involved with the people on the ground. What I found mostly from the testimonies of trade unionists is that, in addition to the Ipa problem about wages and such like, psychosocial well-being is really running out. Many people gave the clear message yesterday: up to here and no further. During the corona crisis, many companies and employees were in the front line. Many of them can't tell again, they've died. A very large group is left with the fear of being infected while working daily. Add to that the workload and you will know that this is not conducive to psychosocial well-being. I therefore believe that we should review the CPBW's task and take real structural measures. We should not just encourage companies, but consistently provide good guidance for those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u7	Minister, as you said at the beginning of your reply, the mental well-being situation is not encouraging for many workers because of the corona crisis. That's right. The cause of many problems in the workplace over the past year, including in terms of well-being at work, lies in many of the measures imposed by the government. I had hoped that the government would take a critical look at this too. Working on the cause is the best way to solve a problem. That's how I got messages today from people who take their kids to work because the school's closed. At the same time, teleworking is actually mandatory. The situation is becoming extremely absurd. People are asking questions about this and feel uncomfortable in the mess of measures. What is very good is that this year there will be a plan in consultation with all those involved. That's incredibly important. Finally, I would like to mention how important it is to take into account the fact that our country has a large number of small businesses, which do not have the scale to set up an entire administration to shape this accompanying policy in the workplace. In this respect, support will be really important for the many SMEs in our country. Because they want to, but they need support and handles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u8	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. In my opinion, well-being at work is always important, not just for the workers. The employer also has every interest in making his employee feel good about his skin and his productivity is therefore high. It is also seen that employers' attention to mental well-being has increased enormously. In 2019, only 32% of employers considered mental well-being important for the organisation. In the meantime, that figure has risen to 67 % in 2021. That's a huge increase, not a moment too soon. After all, we are in the corona crisis, so it is even more important to see to that. However, the questioning of Acerta shows that a lot of employers work from their guts and do not know how to handle it. They often think they're right. It is really important that they get all the support they need. That is why I am pleased to hear you say that a plan is being worked on. I therefore hope that we can have a further discussion on this in committee once the plan has been worked out and discussed with the social partners. After all, we can no longer afford to see more people become ill for a long time. Today, for every ten people at work, one person is ill for a long time. We know that mental well-being, with depression and burn-out, is certainly an important factor in being ill for a long time. I thank you for your answer. I assume we'll follow up on this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that the corona crisis has only increased the pressure. There is the isolation, the fear of being infected in the workplace, the extra overtime that needs to be knocked out to get everything around. For me, the problem was already going on before the corona crisis broke out. It is therefore a rather structural problem. This is also seen in the numbers of depressions, burn-outs and mental diseases, which increase due to the additional workload and other reasons. We still have a breadwinner model, while in a family both partners often work. As a result, the combination of work and family only increases the pressure. This morning I learned that Volvo grants parental leave for six months to families with newborn children. I think that's a very nice initiative. They assign it to all departments worldwide. That's very clever, too. It not only reduces mental pressure at a time when one has to keep all the balls in the air, but also, in my opinion, improves mental well-being and productivity. In any case, I look forward to your plan, but also to the initiatives of the social partners. I look forward to evaluating the burn-out projects in the National Labour Council. We can learn a lot from that so that we can actually tackle this issue and reduce the number of people who are out of work. Then we can allow everyone to get back to work. I believe that companies have a great interest in making everyone feel good at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply on the plans you have in this regard. I am very concerned about the figures that have been quoted about the companies that are not making the effort today. It is therefore very important that the plan is put in place and that the social partners start working on it. Reference has been made to the burn-out projects. I don't expect much of the evaluation myself. Why? I have been following these burn-out projects very closely for two years. They're definitely okay, but I saw those files come in, and I saw exactly what they were doing. Very often it was about a coffee moment in a company, a magazine, a team building day. I certainly don't want to be negative about that. These things certainly have their value, but I believe, and perhaps the evaluation will say so, that there must be a much more global approach in the workplace in terms of prevention, in terms of psychic well-being. A more global approach is needed. The project-based approach can of course help, but I believe that we need to come up with a broad line of policy with a view to a preventive policy that the social partners are developing in terms of well-being at work. A somewhat stricter framework is appropriate here, given the needs. I am, of course, very pleased with your plan of action, and I hope that the social partners will play a role in this too, so that we can reach a global approach to the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u11	Minister, the file is well known. This morning I read reactions in the newspaper after yesterday's action day. They went from inappropriate and unworldly in times of economic shrinkage to a patch that will not suffice when it comes to the solutions on the table. For me and my party, the thread is always to give the social dialogue every opportunity. I hope that there will be a sense of responsibility. I think the government has shown in the past that there are many solutions. Today we are in a very exceptional situation, an unprecedented crisis situation. I therefore do not think it is possible to compare the process two years ago. Moreover, the one-off solutions that are being put forward could mean progress. A great deal has already been said about collective agreement 90, which will be called collective agreement 90a, because it concerns an earlier objective. In any case, the proposal to retain the law is still the framework and the objective of the government agreement, but the law itself offers a great deal of flexibility. My party also realises that some sectors have made it through the corona crisis well. They are even doing it optimally today and therefore need to be given the space to share that prosperity with their employees. We fully support that. However, I regret that the debate is very often about dividends and the BEL 20 companies, whereas today thousands of other companies are not on the market, have very little room in the framework of wage negotiations and have very difficult times, so much so that many workers are at risk of losing their jobs. Minister, what will you do? Do you give the social consultation all the opportunities? Do you propose further solutions within the legislative framework? I'd like to hear your plan of action for the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u12	I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u13	I would point out that the questions of Mrs Moscufo and Mr Hedebouw will be irrelevant, since they did not ask them. The questions therefore concern the welfare envelope, the IPA, the indicative wage standard, the meeting with the social partners and the event of 29 March. An additional question is assigned to you, Mr. Colebunders. Is it the same object or is it different?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u14	Madam President, I would like to refer to the more general question, because it will not be the last time we have a discussion on a so-called social dialogue, after which there will be a strike commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u15	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u16	Minister, the context has just been brushed and everyone knows it perfectly. My main question is, basically, what you have done as the competent and responsible minister to prevent us from finding ourselves in this strike situation. The feeling that I have, and even more so after hearing your party president speak in the press, is that the government - and even more so the Minister of Labour - has let go to the strike, even though it was possible to open a tripartite negotiation with employers and unions, putting on the table a series of additional points. Indeed, obtaining an interprofessional agreement is a major issue, both for social peace within companies, for a resumption in the best possible conditions and for taking the pulse of reality on the part of the various workers. It seems to me that, on these points, the government has shown a great deal of passivity by allowing major tensions between unions and employers to develop, while your role and responsibility were to wet your jersey and find the way to an agreement. Unfortunately, the strike took place, and a strike is never a synonym for success. So the big question is whether the government intends to do what it hasn't done before. What negotiation meetings are planned? Are you going, yes or no, to open a tripartite negotiation? What package can you put on the table to pave the way for an interprofessional agreement? This is obviously what you need to do, and you need to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u17	I realize that I forgot to leave the floor to Mrs Vanrobaeys, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u18	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u19	Madam President, Minister, the 1996 Act should not be a hindrance to social consultation. The 2017 amendment did not prevent the conclusion of the last two professional agreements. It is true that some companies face great difficulties. These companies cannot be asked to make further efforts, while in 2020 and 2021 they have suffered as never before since the Second World War, and their prospects for the years to come are bleak. On the other hand, for some subsectors, things went well during the crisis. I am thinking in particular of the issue of large-scale distribution. For workers in these companies, a complementary step could be taken, but not necessarily through a revision of the wage standard. This could be done in the form of a collective bonus plan that would allow to grant a bonus with an attractive gross differential compared to the net. It would then be necessary to remove the existing condition of success from a random objective and to conclude a collective agreement of 90bis or 90ter, for example. The G10 could also look at alternative remuneration, such as consumer cheques or the valuation of the maximum face value of meal vouchers, which would also provide an advantage to the workers concerned. In short, solutions exist to value the work done by staff in sectors that have generated significant benefits. These are solutions that do not require a revision of the 1996 Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I would like to point out that yesterday's strike was an opportunity to send a strong signal, in view of its success, and to point out that the first demand, within the framework of this action, was for the possibility of having a real social concertation, with the freedom to negotiate in sectors and in companies. There are a few sectors that have allegedly performed. However, it should be noted that in many sectors, such as metallurgy, chemistry, glass and paper, activity has hardly been interrupted. Companies in these sectors operated at almost the same pace as before the crisis. I would therefore like to draw attention here to the responsibility of trade unions whose first priority is to preserve employment and to ensure, through the distribution of wealth created in enterprises, an increase in remuneration. Moreover, if it is normal for shareholders to be paid, it would make sense that this is not in the proportions that are known today when no additional remuneration is provided for workers. I really call for consideration to be given to what is really social consultation, which is only possible if there is freedom to negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u21	Let me make it clear, Minister, that we still believe that the negotiations should still have opportunities. Nor was the strike generally announced. One union is still willing to sit around the table with the employers' organizations in order to reach an agreement. So I would like to ask all the social partners: please, get on with it. The 1996 law should not be affected by the increase in wages at the top of the index, which allows for 0.4%. Very often the discussion is about that 0.4%, but the 2.8 % index increase is almost never mentioned. We must also stress that this is what is in the coalition agreement. The 1996 law didn't just happen. It really aims to maintain our competitive position vis-à-vis abroad, thereby avoiding job losses. We really need to be aware of that. If we are to increase the employment rate and create jobs, it is crucial that we strictly respect the agreements on the wage standard. In terms of purchasing power, it is important that, of course, people remain net. The government has taken initiatives in this area. The companies that have been lurking during the corona crisis can safely make additional efforts through an additional premium system, but there are also many companies for which it would be irresponsible to allow a structural wage increase of more than 0.4%. I very much hope that the social partners will give the consultation another chance, especially since one union also calls for it to sit around the table again. Of course we want from Open Vld, which is also our statement, that workers have net more left. That is our position, and it will remain so. Anyone who works must be rewarded, but that must be done within the framework of the wage bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u22	I don't think there's any more requests to speak. Minister, I give you the floor for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many questions on these important issues. As you know, the report of the secretariat of the Central Economic Council was published on 14 January last year in a particular situation, with all the difficulties we are experiencing. You also know that the 1996 law provides that, if there is no agreement between the social partners within two months of the publication of this report, the government invites the social partners to consult. It proposes a mediation text on which the social partners must decide within one month. That is the text of the law, but it is not up to you, parliamentarians, to say so. Besides the text or before it, there is also the spirit of the law. It is in this spirit of the law that I want to register. The government's aim is to ensure that social dialogue succeeds. We will do everything in our power to do so. Social dialogue has a central place in the coalition agreement. These are not just words, we want social peace and we are convinced that it can only be done with an agreement from the social partners on this fundamental issue. That is why, even if the deadline laid down in the 1996 Act is now exceeded, I consider that until one of the two benches tells us that negotiations are no longer possible, I will do everything in my power to ensure that they can continue. It is on this basis and in this spirit that, in all my contacts, alone or with the Prime Minister and the social partners, we have tried to create as much as possible a framework for negotiations and to give space to this negotiation, whether it be on the inter-professional agreement, on the well-being envelope - by recalling the priorities set out in the government agreement and which are the priorities of this government and of this majority - or whether it is by addressing other issues peripheral to the negotiation on the inter-professional agreement and on the distribution of the welfare envelopes which, in our view, seemed to be important issues both for social consultation and for both banks. We have had many contacts over the past 15 days, some informal, some more formal. As you know, two letters have been sent to the social partners in advance: one on the welfare envelope and the other on the negotiation of the inter-professional agreement - with elements that some of you have reminded us, namely the possibility of excluding, of Immunizing from the margin calculation a series of initiatives and agreements between the social partners. I am thinking in particular of the CTC on compulsory telework, low unemployment for vaccination, but also of elements of the social agreement White Blouses. We are also thinking of decisions taken at the level of sectors or companies relating, in particular, to additional days of leave or to certain bonuses granted in particular in the retail sector. This letter also provides for the possibility of immunising the margin calculation, agreements reached in companies allowing to go beyond this margin of 0.4% in companies that have gone through the crisis well, or even better than in normal times. Negotiations on welfare envelopes are still under way. The social partners on both banks have told us on several occasions that they are at a hair of an agreement. Here too, we want to give them the opportunity to close this important issue for the beneficiaries of social benefits and with a view to combating poverty. You are all eager to have more precise answers. I sincerely believe that we still need to give the social partners the opportunity to work calmly, in relative discretion, to reach an agreement on both the standard, the welfare envelopes and other issues of importance to the social partners. For the moment, some of them are still pending at the level of the National Labour Council. Then I'll join yesterday's strike. I told you, a strike is always a failure. No one stops for fun, everyone knows that. However, it is also a fundamental right of every worker to be respected. So I will not comment on yesterday's strike action. I am pleased that it took place in accordance with health regulations and that no incidents have been reported on the ground. I think it is also important to be able to say it today. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, a little more patience. I continue to believe in social consultation. I continue to believe that agreement is possible on the standard, on the allocation of welfare envelopes and on a number of other issues of importance to the social partners and therefore to the government. I will still do everything in my power to facilitate this agreement or these agreements. In the coming hours, contacts are of course still planned. But as I said a few moments ago, I reserve the priority of the proposals to the social partners. I think it's important in that context. I think we need a relative discretion over these negotiations, at least in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u24	Madam President, Minister, on the welfare envelope, we have known for some time that everything is on the table. The latter, as you call it, in order to reach an agreement, is, of course, the link made by one party with the negotiations on the Ipa or the wage standard negotiations. I conclude by saying that there was another momentum yesterday and without commenting on it. I reacted clearly yesterday. Social consultation is the only solution. I hope yesterday the momentum was recreated to continue the concert in a responsible manner. I also hope that with all the elements that you have mentioned and which are on the table, the partners will soon be able to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u25	Minister, I have listened carefully to your reply. I know that what different parties explain here is sensitive, namely that we should not always refer to the BEL 20 companies. I realize that point is very sensitive to you. However, it should be remembered that BEL 20 companies pay EUR 5 billion in dividends. A dividend is not paid because it is bad. With a quarter of that amount, the wages of their employees can be increased by 5%. Three quarters of that amount is still available to the shareholders. You said yourself, Minister, that there should be no intervention during yesterday's actions. So they really have been coronaproof, for which I am extremely proud of the employees involved. However, you should also remember the following. Yesterday I saw companies which have no record of a strike and whose employees have not often taken the lead in national actions. Yesterday they were there, although we are in the midst of the corona crisis. That means something. I have testimonies from cleaning companies that indicate that they've been on the front line by going to the hospitals to polish in the covid departments. Their employees have risked their lives and still do so, day in and day out. However, there is nothing in it for them, although their companies have passed all the extra costs on to the hospitals. So there really is a need for serious increases. Minister, you have been talking about this since January when I first intervened in plenary. You say that you want to give social dialogue a chance and seek solutions in the form of leave days or a premium. I have heard all kinds of things here, but when you talk about a premium or something like that, I have to say that you have been cutting off social security contributions for 30 years. We need to invest in wages on a structural basis and it is therefore very important that the bill of Goblet and Hedebouw be approved. The 1996 law needs to be amended, instead of all the blabbing and good intentions I have heard here today. There must be effective investment in wages, on which social security contributions are paid, so that we all gain at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u26	Minister, I do not believe you are as naive as you appear to me. The coalition agreement refers 41 times to social dialogue. We have now come to the first time and it has become a trenches war unprecedented. The trade unions have not entered into constructive negotiations, as you know. I understand the trade unions, by the way. It is very logical that they should strike, regardless of the content. The main thing is that your own chairman and your coalition partners are already making concessions to the coalition agreement in the media. Of course, the unions will then be on the streets and will not sit down at the table to reach an agreement within the limits of the coalition agreement. Saying that this was not a political strike, but a strike against employers, of course, sounds good, but everyone knows that this is not true. As long as you do not modernise the social dialogue, we will miss opportunities. As long as you do not regulate the right to strike legally, as Europe demands, a lot of things will happen in the coming months. As a government, you will come across this again and again, through the division into your own coalition and the way in which social dialogue is now being looked at. I hope you will seize the opportunity to learn from this rather than pretend to believe very naively in the social dialogue for the next few days. We don't believe in that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u27	Madam President, Minister, I would like to hear Mr Colebunders say that we need to invest in wages. The best way to do that is by investing in jobs and before that there is just that wage standard law. It is there to ensure that our jobs are not praised out of the market by our neighbouring countries. This is also in the interests of the purchasing power of all those workers. That is why I find it really incomprehensible that employers and workers still think today that this is a battle they have to fight against each other, when it is a battle they have to fight with each other. The government must indeed provide a clear framework. You seem to have closed the front door for changes, for letting go of that wage standard law, but the back door is, of course, open. The agreement will show how open it is. Our concern is still the purchasing power of our citizens. The derailment of wages is then a very bad thing. We are eagerly looking forward to the agreement from which we are apparently only one hair removed. At the same time, we are holding on to our hearts, because the framework you have created is not so clear, if only because at least the impression is created that the back door to release the wage standard is wide open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u28	Mr Minister, thank you for your answers and for the debate that we have regularly, both in plenary and in committee. I hear you remain fully confident that this dialogue will succeed. You recall that social dialogue is important to the government. In this respect, you know that I am totally committed to the importance of social dialogue. Today, we are in a rather special situation where a solution should have been found for the wellness envelope, six months ago. So this may be the time to take on your responsibilities. Perhaps this is the time to move forward and decide on this debate on the welfare envelope. This is, at least, the time for us to split the two files. The wellness envelope must be treated in such a way as to provide air and space for the IPA agreement to succeed. I hear your intention to Immunize the agreements that have taken place around the covid crisis. As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, I find this intention very positive. You emphasize the discretion in which you wish to remain. I understand that. It is a sign of respect for the social partners not to vent completely or to give the content. On the other hand, it is also important to give Parliament the cues that you, as a minister, put in place. I can't hear them. Perhaps this is part of your concern for discretion, but you have little answer to the question that I asked you about the beacons that will guide the proposals that you are going to make. You say that we must bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion and trust in consultation. It is therefore important to help him and move forward on this decoupling of the two files and, why not, to propose that this decoupling be definitive by making a decision for three years around the welfare envelope. This may be a proposal to be discussed with the social partners, so that the IPA negotiations are not always grouped together in the negotiations on the welfare envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u29	Mrs Cornet, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u30	Yes, Madam President. I thought I could benefit from a little bit more time, as I had referred to my written question. I'll make it up to you. It would also allow freedom to be left in certain areas, as you mentioned. I was also asking you about the fact that four out of ten companies have maintained or increased their dividends. In any case, for companies listed on the stock exchange, there is clearly something to do and to distinguish between the different types of enterprises. One does not treat a small hairdresser in Andenne in the same way as a large company that has increased its dividends and is listed on the stock exchange. Minister, do you intend to intervene to limit the dividends of businesses that have called for economic unemployment? I would like to remind you of other elements, but I am afraid that the President will call me to order a second time. So I'm staying there and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Cornet. I still hope I don't scare you too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u32	Of course, Minister, I also support your prioritising social dialogue. It is very important that the social partners can reach a fair social agreement. Everyone understands that a number of sectors are having a particularly difficult time, but there are also sectors that have been particularly well served in the crisis. The workers there have worked very hard, sometimes overtime, have often gone to work with fear and ask for respect. They claim part of the cake they have made together, and that seems understandable to me. Just before such a fair social agreement, the government needs to create some room. You did that through the letters and the letters you sent. I also think the link with the welfare envelope is important. There is always a link between the wage agreement and the welfare envelope, but it is not possible to wait too long to increase social benefits, especially because people living on such benefits are particularly hard hit by the current crisis. I understand that they do not want to let go: it is not the intention to blow up the possibility of a social agreement, but the increase in purchasing power for the people themselves, which can now help them to overcome the crisis and which is also important in view of the relance, especially in order to help self-employed people who are now severely affected. If people have more purchasing power through higher wages or through higher social benefits, they will also be able to benefit from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u33	Madam President, Minister, you speak of discretion, you speak of serenity. I hear. But if I may, I still find that the attitude of the government, and not only of the government, but the attitude of the government parties, and even more so of the minister's party that has jurisdiction over its powers, must be more than responsible. What I see, at least in the last few days, is that the parties of the government, and obviously yours, do not have an attitude of discretion, to establish a framework of serenity. Instead, you put on a pyromaniac suit. This is a real problem, because a threefold responsibility is now in place. There is the responsibility of the unions, the responsibility of the employers to reach an agreement. But there is full responsibility for the government and its various members and components. I don't think everything that's going on is going to make things easier. I think it's really a mistake. As I said earlier, the issue of an agreement is a major one, not only for the parties concerned, but also for promoting social peace at the level of companies. This social peace is an indispensable factor, even more so in a crisis situation and in the context of the recovery after the crisis. I hope that now the government will not continue to play the pyromaniac in different ways, but instead, that it will endorse a suit of mediator, that it will adopt an attitude that allows us to bring about complementary solutions, because it is through an agreement that we can get through. This agreement is essential, with respect for social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u34	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems to me that in the circumstances, the fact that the time limit provided for in the 1996 Act is exceeded is not serious at all. But the most important thing is social consultation and the ultimate preservation of social peace. I hear your willingness to reach an agreement and I hear the proposals that have been made to achieve that. It is essential that the dialogue between the social partners resumes, with a real willingness to succeed on both sides, in close cooperation with the government and in a climate of trust and mutual respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is no social consultation without respect for the freedom of negotiation!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u36	Minister, it is reassuring that you believe in a solution. I know there's a lot of work going on in front of the scenes and behind the scenes. We need to be aware of the fact that 6% of the companies have blocked, but 30% of the companies are now in serious difficulties. We absolutely cannot accept that they are being touched and that these companies are being brought to the brink of bankruptcy. I hope there will be a solution. I am convinced that the government agreement on the wage standard law will continue to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u37	Minister, I have a number of questions about the misuse of benefits in the event of temporary unemployment by covid addressed to you and to your colleague Clarinval. The latter was also referred to you. To buy time, I refer to the written version of those questions. I hope that you will deal with all aspects, including the aspect that I questioned your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u38	Minister, more and more stories are emerging about fraud involving corona support. The Labour Auditor of East and West Flanders clearly states that the governments were not ready to adequately control the large flow of corona aid. He fears that a great deal of corona aid has been wrongly granted. He's talking, among other things, about dormant corporations that have suddenly been woken up. About a year ago, I already asked a written question about the number of companies that, for example, recruited people in the lockdown, while employees were placed on temporary unemployment, which is a strong indicator. This showed that in March and April last year alone more than 10,000 companies were in that case. That raises a lot of questions. The inspection service of the RVA has also identified abuses of temporary unemployment in more than 3,000 companies. In many cases, workers who were on temporary unemployment were obliged to continue to work. The inspectors have therefore discovered different types of fraud, but still the question remains whether they can detect all cases of fraud. There are, of course, several indicators. I've come back to that several times in the past few months. On the basis of these indicators, targeted search and fraud prevention can be avoided. Minister, what are you and the governments doing to detect and prevent abuse? What measures have you taken before that? What measures will you take? How is it possible that fraud on such a large scale can be carried out so easily with the corona aid? Was the government insufficiently prepared? The auditors fear that it will be difficult to recover the corona fees. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u39	Madam President, I do not understand how my similar question on the right of bridging, addressed to Minister Clarinval, who is on the agenda this afternoon, will be answered. Anyway, I'm asking for the same treatment. In any case, I am referring to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u40	I do not see your question addressed to Mr Clarinval, but I see Mrs Lanjri's question addressed to him. We're going to check, but I guess answers given this morning and this afternoon will satisfy colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u41	Mrs Vanrobaeys is right. We need to see the questions dealt with in the same way. I had a question about the right of bridging addressed to Mr Clarinval. For some reason, it's being linked to the questions here, and that's a little bizarre. Either the Minister responds immediately to the question which is the responsibility of his fellow minister, or my question is moved to the afternoon session and I ask them. I don't want to end up between the two. I would like the services to follow the same line. Of course, every question goes through people's hands, but similar questions should be dealt with in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u42	Certainly. An astronomical amount of questions falls every week. Probably this one passed between the meshes. Of course, we will ensure fair treatment for all. This afternoon, if necessary, Mrs Lanjri, I will inform Minister Clarinval and you will always be able to speak on Mrs Vanrobaeys' question. We will ensure that you are given the opportunity to challenge Minister Clarinval in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u43	I refer to the written version of the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u44	First of all, Mrs Lanjri, I am sorry, but I do not have specific data on the right of bridging. We will have to re-examine Minister Clarinval this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions on an important subject: the abuse and fraud of the various measures taken in the context of the crisis and, in particular, the measures relating to temporary unemployment. We are aware of the risk of fraud linked to the relaxation of temporary unemployment measures. However, from the data provided to me by my administration, it appears that there are no more frauds in the context of temporary unemployment force majeure corona than in the context of ordinary temporary unemployment. As mentioned earlier, these measures were adopted at the beginning of the health crisis to protect citizens who have seen their income disappear suddenly. The challenge was to ensure that temporary unemployment benefits were paid to an unprecedented number of workers. This was possible thanks to simplified procedures and ex post checks. In order to avoid fraud as much as possible, the administration has adapted its control procedures while focusing on measures to prevent and control temporary unemployment Corona. This adjustment explains why the number of inspectors did not have to be doubled. In order to address the controls in a structured and efficient manner, the RVA has started an analysis of the situations in which risks of fraud in the event of temporary unemployment were possible due to corona and has identified them. For each risk, it was then determined how potential fraud could be detected. There are three types of sources for detecting fraud. Firstly, there are the complaints sent to the RVA and the Fair Competition Communication Point by, for example, employers, employees and trade unions. Secondly, there's data intersection, so data matching. Thirdly, there are contacts with other institutions, partners and stakeholders, such as the payment institutions, the RSZ, the BFSA and the Justice and Police. For data matching, the RVA makes maximum use of internal and external databases. The RVA has therefore checked as closely as possible. Selections were made for further research through cross-section with own data. Any deviating result of a data crossing gave rise to an administrative remote control. If necessary, a field check was carried out by a social inspector. It is important that the data matching study looked at the entire population, i.e. all employers and employees who had recourse to the temporary unemployment system. In addition, there are administrative and systematic checks on all files transmitted by the payment authorities to the RVA. These are decisions on the award, the determination of the amount of the benefit and the verification of the payments made by the paying institutions. Finally, there are internal controls in the databases where employers and employees can submit their declarations online. Such preventive checks are inherent in electronic submission and prevent certain infringements. For example, an employer cannot introduce a declaration of social risk for workers who do not appear in Dimona. Only part of the RVA's investigations are co-operated with the Justice Department. This happens when the RVA has received a press release from the labour inspector or when the social inspector has drawn up an electronic CV. This is less than 10% of the research carried out by the social inspectors of the RVA. After all, the RVA itself also has the opportunity to sanction. He may recover undue benefits and impose a temporary exclusion from entitlement to unemployment benefit. For information, please be aware that some 41,031 checks on employers and workers have been carried out to date over a period of one year. This corresponds to about 3,500 checks per month. Finally, the ONEM also collaborates in an investigation conducted by the Federal Public Prosecutor, in collaboration with the judicial police in Brussels and Charleroi as well as with the inspection service of the National Social Security Office (ONSS). This is a case of serious organised fraud – which has already been discussed in a previous committee – in which the identity of several people has been falsified in order to unduly receive temporary unemployment benefits. Such fraud was made possible as long as priority was given to prompt payment making it impossible to verify a priori. I would like once again to point out that the number of people who are part of this fraud network or who are involved in fraud is a small percentage compared to the number of people who were entitled to temporary unemployment due to the health crisis. Employers who commit fraud may be forced to pay wages. They may also receive a warning or, in case of serious fraud, see their file transferred to the judicial authorities, who may impose a fine or even a prison sentence. The file may also be submitted to the administrative fines department, which may also impose a fine. The question of the recovery of possible undue unemployment benefits did not arise because of the health crisis. The procedures for recovering undue sums existed before the relaxation of temporary unemployment measures. They have continued to be implemented and will continue to be implemented in the future. I would like to point out that at this particular time, as at all times, the ONEM never refuses to consider an application for a review of the repayment terms when an unfortunate and bona fide debtor requests it. Moreover, if identity fraud is established, the ONEM will regularise the situation of the unemployed person concerned as soon as possible. With regard to the measures that will be taken to prevent and detect fraud, I can assure you that the ONEM will continue its investigations in the coming months and will continue to cross-check the data from the different databases, which will allow the detection and/or selection of the files to be thoroughly investigated, as has been the case so far. Finally, the ONEM does not yet have data on the sectors in which fraud has been found more regularly, nor on the amounts that have been recovered so far. As soon as I have this information, I will forward it to the secretariat of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u45	Minister, I referred to my written questions in the hope that you would answer all aspects. You did not reply to the question of the right of bridging. That is not a problem, but even the questions I have asked you have not always been answered. We are on a committee and I ask questions that I don't always get answers to. For example, I raised the question of how exactly you work with the Länder. After all, it is very clear that in the Länder, which also provide aid, the same companies are cheating. You did not answer that question. I have also asked very clearly whether there is no need to increase the number of inspectors. That is what has been done in the Länder. Is that necessary or not? Do you consider the current number of inspectors sufficient to carry out all checks? After all, there is an enormous number of benefits involved. I have also put the question very clearly about the simplified system of declaration for temporary unemployment. Apparently, this has led to abuses. Isn't it better to return to the normal declaration system, where you also make the declaration in advance and ask for temporary unemployment because of corona, and not just at the end? That is also a very specific question to which you have not answered. I would therefore like to have an answer on these aspects. For 2020, we are talking about more than EUR 4 billion spent on temporary unemployment due to corona. That's not nothing. Then there may still be as much abuse in percentage terms as in the other system, let us, above all, tackle any abuse, whether it is just temporary unemployment or temporary unemployment because of corona. In the end, the total amount is much larger. So we have to deal with that. I know that the current procedure will run until the end of June 2021, but I wonder if we should change it now and announce that we will return to the ordinary declaration procedure. It makes much more control possible. That's what a lot of people on the ground say. In principle, workers also need to be notified in advance when they end up in temporary unemployment. It is now found that employers let them work, at home or even in the workplace. At the end they are informed that everything is in order for their temporary unemployment. When the employee objects to having worked after all, it is said that it will be okay. The employee has his temporary unemployment and the employer complements with a premium. Workers are thus obliged to participate in a fraudulent system. It can't be. This can be addressed, for example, by bringing the return back to what it was like before. That's my proposal. Minister, I would have liked to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u46	Madam President, Minister, this is, of course, the disadvantage of a topical debate for us and sometimes the advantage for you: you can choose a little to which questions you do and to which you do not answer. I must join Mr Lanjri. You say that the fraud involving temporary unemployment is actually no worse than before the corona period. If we have to work on this, it will be very sad. The problem is that a great deal of fraud can and must be prevented, because the recovery of sums wrongly paid will become a bit of a fuss, and in many cases it will not succeed. In the spring of 2020, during the first lockdown, I already demonstrated with a written question that more than 10,000 companies are dormant companies, without economic activity, that recruit people and at the same time place people on temporary unemployment during the lockdown. That is a strong indicator, on the basis of which one can play briefly on the ball. When I see that the RVA has found abuse with temporary unemployment in 3,000 companies, while in reality it will be a multiple, I find that disappointing. Today, social marketers can already predict what our behaviour will be based on our online behaviour on social media and our surfing behaviour. With the same technology one can predict with a very high probability, there are always exceptions, fraud. That is, of course, the way in which fraud is to be tackled, namely by preventing it, by working preventively. Now there is always ex post control. However, it is extremely difficult to check afterwards whether or not a business was closed for one day, to say anything. It is actually impossible to check afterwards whether there was temporary unemployment at the time of further black work. It's mopping with the tap open. I am therefore really in favour of going much more proactively, of identifying indicators that can already have a strong idea of the likelihood of fraud at the moment that a particular aid measure is applied for. On that basis one can then check much more precisely. That's the future. The mopping with the crane open and running behind the facts must stop, because this is really a great form of injustice, which in that way, wanted or unintentionally, is maintained by the government. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. For a system to be legitimate, it must be fair. Supporting companies and workers who have difficulties during the crisis of the covid-19 must obviously be done in a way free of fraud, otherwise this system is no longer fair and becomes illegitimate. In the view of some, this would be a good opportunity to reduce the support given to workers and businesses. We'd all regret it. As you say, we must therefore ensure that controls are as preventive and as early as possible, so as to avoid fraud and to have to recover amounts. With regard to the recovery of these amounts, when cases are transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is realized that these are often cases of organized fraud. This recovery must be made from fraudulent employers and persons whose identity has been usurped or who have been blurred and rolled by their employers should not be the victims, bearing in mind that these amounts must be recovered by the authority since they have been unduly paid. You say that the ONEM will find solutions as quickly as possible for people whose identity has been usurped. I invite you to be really very attentive to this because administrative hell is a reality for these people. They should not be further victimized when trying to regularize a situation. I hear that digitization allows for more preventive control and that it is a good thing. I will certainly come back to the committee to discuss, in a few weeks or months, the follow-up of these cases of fraud and particularly organised fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u48	Minister, this is not the first time we have talked about this. I have to say, I find it really vengeful that a flexible system of temporary unemployment is being abused in this way, which is intended to protect employment and protect the purchasing power of workers in this very serious health crisis. Those who abuse that system in this way simply undermine the solidarity that has kept us going. Should we not ask ourselves how we can take further preventive action in the event of the abuse of temporary unemployment? In fact, there are workers who are neither aware nor aware of the fact that they are simply employed and who, at the end of the month, find on their pay sheets that they were not paid a wage for certain days. In retrospect, they are told that the employer has put them on temporary unemployment and that they are getting some blackmail. Then they'll have to shut up and wipe the sponge over it. I do not think that is a correct attitude at all. Perhaps we should inform the workers beforehand that there is a system in it so that they can respond to it. Now they can only react when it is too late. Moreover, they are always afraid of losing their jobs when they hang on to things. I understand that, too. I do not think that they should again be victims in these cases. We need to do better in advance. If you don't know about it, you can't lose benefits afterwards. I know such people who are changing jobs because they are so disoriented from the way they were treated during this crisis. I ask for a thorough cooperation, at all levels, with all services, with regard to ghost companies and organised crime, which, like all other systems, suck this system out for criminal purposes, for trafficking in human beings, for drug trafficking. I believe that we must fight this very hard, even if it is perhaps only a limited number of cases. We have to rule it out completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u49	I am not surprised by these figures, Minister. At a car congress in the distant past, a European CEO of Ford said during the talks that the strongest asset in Belgium is our economic and technical unemployment, in fact all forms of unemployment. So these are all forms of unemployment that a company can invoke. That could save them so much on an annual basis. In other countries, for example, the company has to pay itself if people have to stay at home. Actually, that's always been with me. In my years in the formative services of the union, I have heard this more and more. One in four controlled companies has abused temporary unemployment. That disappoints me. A huge safety net has been created with all the forms of unemployment that the employer can claim at the expense of the taxpayer. Whether that's good or not, I'm gonna leave it out of the question. If there is to be so much abuse during an epidemic, then it must be dealt with very hard. Mrs Vanrobaeys just said that these workers should also be able to sue. The reality is that there is no purchasing power and that many workers do not even oppose it, because they fear losing their jobs. I am really worried about that, but I am even more concerned about the way in which that money will be recovered. I'd really like to get some figures on that. You didn't give it today. You have promised that we will get those figures. That is what I am waiting for, because I want to know how many sanctions have been effectively pronounced against these companies and how much money and people are involved. We really have to make the bill: what will it cost us and what can we actually recover from it? We still cannot justify that there are no conditions. Temporary unemployment is a crisis measure and should not be a free lunch.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u50	I have the impression that there have been requests for clarification. Minister, would you like to come back to this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u51	Madam President, I will come back to a few points, in particular Mrs Lanjri's more specific requests and Mr Anseeuw's reflections. I thought I'd answered it. First of all, I would like to point out that the decision to relax the measures concerning temporary corona unemployment was taken with the aim of guaranteeing a prompt payment to the beneficiaries of this temporary unemployment. It would have been impossible to guarantee the payment of temporary corona unemployment to all workers in the sectors which have been stopped or firms which have been stopped or forced to reduce their activity, if we had not relaxed these arrangements and procedures. This implies, in parallel, that the control procedures have been modified. This is in particular what has been done at the administrative level, with a lot of data matching and data mining work. From my memory, I think there were more than a dozen cross-cutting parameters in the various files and databases to better target controls and ensure that controls were targeted on companies and sectors where the risk profile is most important. Controls are targeted where fraud is suspected on the basis of numerical data. This explains the high rate of infringements found during the checks. Why? Because we've targeted these controls where they would be most useful. We did this on the basis of cross-references of data from several databases. The result was that, as in Flanders, it was not necessary to double the number of inspectors. We've targeted control operations. Finally, you should be aware that there are collaborations with the various departments and stakeholders, as I mentioned, whether they are federal institutions, or contacts with regional institutions, particularly in the context of procedures initiated or extended by labour auditors. This is done in this context at the level of inter-service collaboration within the procedures initiated by the labour auditors and, more generally, by the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your additional reply. You say that it was necessary to simplify because of the large number of applications for temporary unemployment. I can understand that. There was a time when we had more than 1.3 million people in temporary unemployment. In the meantime, fortunately, the number of applications has fallen a lot, but we also see a great deal of abuse. Even though that percentage doesn't represent so much, it's about huge amounts of money. That is why we may need to review the system. You have not yet replied to the question as to whether we may not have to re-introduce the normal system of declarations. It doesn't mean that much extra work, does it? Employers who seek temporary unemployment because of corona must inform the services at least in advance that they wish to use it. Then the inspection services can do a number of samples, on top of the checks they are doing now, to see if there are any abuses. In fact, that is a proposal that we are not doing alone. I made that suggestion in my question on Friday. I see now that the sp.a apparently also supports the use of the normal system, or any other adapted system, to optimally absorb the abuses. You say that we will cross the data and make very targeted checks on the basis of that cross-referenced data, but the number of inspectors is limited. This means that these inspectors will not be able to carry out checks on other cases. The inspection services are certainly not overstaffed, but it is really necessary that we tackle the abuses and that employers also know that the aid is there to help them through the crisis, but that it should not be abused. The system must not be abused. I have no problem with the fact that it costs an enormous amount and that we are spending a huge amount of taxpayers' money on it. This is important for maintaining employment, but it hurts so much to see so much money being misused. We need to find out much better about these abuses, precisely in order to safeguard the large group of employers who do not commit abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u53	Minister, it is true that last year in March and April there was a need to switch off very quickly and to open the slide without much fuss. I have always shown understanding that this was indeed the case during the first few weeks. At the same time, we note that there is indeed behind the facts when it comes to fraud. Despite the fact that much less duties and conditions were effectively imposed to apply for, for example, temporary unemployment, it was perfectly possible to estimate the risk of fraud in a good way if one had indeed worked proactively and preventively in advance, on the basis of indicators and the various data available to the public and which are still much more available to the inspection services. That didn't happen. The fair answer to the question of whether the government was indeed ready to grant this support in this way and on such a large scale is then yes. Yeah, the government wasn't ready, that's right. That is what needs to be done. We've been a year. Never have been with me, and I don't suspect alone, so many stories of people being placed on temporary unemployment and still continuing to work. Often it does happen under pressure from the employer, who says they have to continue working in black. In the end, that can't be the intention. There are two things. First of all, in the beginning, the government wasn't ready. That's a statement. Secondly, and this is at least as painful, a year later we are still not ready to work proactively and preventively in the fight against fraud. However, the resources and the dates are there. There is always a check-up after-sales service. There's nothing harder than that. And then I'm gonna shut up about the money that needs to be recovered. There's really a lot of work to be done. It is regrettable that no progress has been made in the last year to prevent fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u54	I have a small addition. We do not question the simple system of temporary unemployment. There are still sectors that are having a particularly difficult time. We'll talk about telework later. I certainly do not want to bring in all kinds of administrative duties at a time when it is particularly difficult, but workers really do not know about it and run the risk of being sanctioned afterwards. We need to think about limiting this, to provide a notification to the services or to the employee. Something must be done so that workers are not obliged to be put on temporary unemployment without being aware of it and then found out afterwards on the pay sheet that they are receiving temporary unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u55	Madam President, I would like to clarify one more point. I've asked you to review the filing system. I'm not saying it has to be unnecessarily complex. Mrs Vanrobaeys says that the employer must inform the employee. That's what it's like today. In the simplified procedure, too, the employer must inform the employee, but we note that this is not happening. Minister, I would simply ask you, without making the unnecessary complex, to consider what guarantees can be built in. A small digital notification from the moment unemployment begins could do a lot. Then employers will also know that they have passed it on. For those who do not fraud, that is the vast majority, there is no problem at all. For those who do cheat, it is possible to check whether they are not at work when temporary unemployment is running. This can be done by means of a simple digital notification. Such matters are possible. I call upon you to look at this together with your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u56	You will not be surprised, Minister, that I am also in favour of any simplification, but we will be able to do so with more confidence if the data is used preventively and proactively, in order to assess, on the basis of this, the extent or extent of the risk of fraud. In this way, we can indeed simplify much more, much more, in other aid systems too, than is the case today. This makes life easier for everyone, not the least for those who work bona fide. After all, we should not make it unnecessarily complex for all those who act in good faith just to rule out the fact that a minority is a minority, I hope, but we do not really have a view of this. I think it can be much more targeted, without making it unnecessary complex for those who do act in good faith. Proactively getting to work on these dates should actually be the task of combating fraud, as happens with great success in many private sectors, but the government is hopelessly lagging behind in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u57	Madam President, Minister, there is no doubt that the corona crisis has a severe impact on our labour market. An additional effect, identified by Herman Nijns van Randstad, is that the labour market has been split in two. He states that since last year there have been two labour markets in Belgium, with some sectors that have been hard hit and others that are not. On the one hand, there are well-known sectors such as catering, events and amusement parks, and on the other hand the health sector, which has experienced enormous growth as a result of the crisis, logistics, as a lot of people have made orders in shops and online, and retail. Today, because of the many additional restrictions that have just been introduced, it is much more difficult, but at some point there were also many additional workers needed for security, disinfection of materials, etc. A direct consequence of this situation is that there will always be shortages in the labour market. There is also some kind of imbalance between people who have been made redundant or are temporarily unemployed and the number of vacancies on the labour market. Herman Nijns fears that this imbalance is structural. If that were the case, then of course it is wrong. An answer to this can be training and training. There are a number of questions that I have to ask you in this respect. What conclusions do you draw from Randstad's finding that the labour market has been split into two? Are you planning to take initiatives that take into account the different impact of the corona crisis on the different sectors? If so, how do you intend to do that? What measures will you take to re-establish the second half, namely the unemployed in the sectors most affected by the crisis? Do you agree with the importance of training and training? In what way can you play a supporting role within the federal powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u58	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, it is true that the crisis has different consequences for different sectors. During the lockdown, almost all sectors relied on the temporary unemployment system, but the percentage of employees was highest in the hospitality, art, entertainment, recreation and construction. We saw this already in March and April 2020. In May to September, temporary unemployment fell in all sectors, but in several sectors the number of temporary unemployed remained higher, namely the catering industry, the cultural sector, recreation and services, travel agencies, rental services, cleaning services and hair and beauty care. This trend was confirmed in the second wave. For more details on the most affected sectors, please refer to the bimonthly follow-up to the Working Party on Social Impact of the COVID-19 crisis. You can consult them on the website of the FPS Social Security Office. Since March 2020, many measures have been taken to support workers, the unemployed and employers. Measures such as temporary unemployment, the right of bridging and the freezing of the degressivity of unemployment benefits are general but are more beneficial to most affected sectors and workers. We also take specific measures that take into account the impact on a sector. For example, there is the subsidy for the catering sector, measures for workers in the cultural sector, the wage subsidy for the travel sector, the protection premium and the recent measures for events and the cultural sector. As you know, this is a matter of regional competence as far as guidance to work is concerned. As far as the importance of training is concerned, that is one of my priorities. The government intends to step up its efforts in consultation with the social partners and the Länder. The objectives are: to ensure that the interprofessional objective of an average of 5 training days is achieved, the introduction of an individual training scheme and the individual right to training. In this context, a tax aid measure was also recently adopted. Employers can benefit from a tax advantage from 2021 if their employees receive more training than is provided by law. In this way, the government wants to encourage employers to offer more training to their employees. The tax aid is granted in the form of a partial exemption from the transfer of withholding tax. On 12 February 2021, the Council of Ministers also decided that the regional employment services will be informed more quickly about which workers are in temporary unemployment. On this basis, they can offer a more proactive and appropriate training offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is important that regional employment agencies can be informed much more quickly than today of who has effectively become unemployed or long-term unemployed. You mentioned a whole series of support measures introduced last year for the replacement income, but this is of course also about the unemployed who need to be able to get back to work. It is extremely important that you work together with your colleagues, but also with other levels of policy, on an exit strategy for our labour market. After all, there are still many gaps. You have set out a number of things that you want to achieve, but the way in which it remained earlier flou in your answer. When that will happen, it is not insignificant, but you have not lifted a tip from the veil. We will undoubtedly have to discuss this further. I call for a well-thought-out exit strategy for the labour market, because it will not be cat's. The worst is likely to have to come at a time when a lot of support measures for firms are being reduced, as freer work can be done. I believe that this will be a very difficult transitional phase for many companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Thémont, for your question. The termination allowance was introduced during a period when there was a fundamental difference between workers and employees in terms of notice periods. The purpose of this allowance was to compensate in part for the injury suffered by the worker in relation to the employee. With regard to notice periods, the Act of 26 December 2013 on the introduction of a single status between workers and employees, in terms of notice periods and waiting days, as well as accompanying measures, completely abolished the distinction between workers and employees from 1 January 2014. This law includes these and these transitional provisions. In the meantime, the termination allowance has, in this context, completely disappeared. As regards the calculation of the period of notice for a worker who first worked as an interim worker and then as a permanent worker, reference should be made to Article 37/4 alinea 3 of the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts. Pursuant to this article, an earlier period of employment as an employer acting as a user is taken into account for the calculation of seniority with that employer, with a maximum of one year, provided that the undertaking follows the period of temporary work, and that the function performed by the employer is identical to that performed as an interim worker. Thus, a worker who entered permanent service after 31 December 2013 will be entitled to a period of notice calculated entirely under the new law and his seniority will also be increased by the period of his occupation as an interim worker, according to the conditions I have just stated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is true that this law on the single status was drafted, as you said, precisely to put an end to discrimination between workers and employees, not to create new forms of treatment within the same status. I thank you, in any case, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u62	Dear colleagues, there are three groups of unemployed people who, in the year 2020, received less than integration income plus a monthly supplement of 50 euros, daily unemployment benefit x 26, which is less than integration income plus 50 euros. Without the above-mentioned EUR 50 monthly supplement, these people would have received more as unemployed than as beneficiaries of integration income. These three groups are the group of fully unemployed persons in receipt of compensation on the basis of studies with an isolated status; the group of fully unemployed persons in receipt of compensation on the basis of studies with a status of head of household with more than 17 months of allowances; the group of fully unemployed persons in receipt of compensation on the basis of work with a status of head of household and a reference wage of less than 2,227.55 euros gross. The table I am going to give you illustrates the number of people who received unemployment benefits in each of these groups during the reference months, i.e. from July to December 2020. For the majority of persons, i.e. those referred to in the third category described above, which represents 86% of the total in December 2020, the difference in monthly income is limited to a maximum of 3.79 euros gross. For other persons, the difference is less than 50 euros gross per month. Since March 2020, the problem of the loss of citizens' income as a result of the health crisis has been at the centre of our thinking. As you know, many measures have been taken since the beginning of the crisis to enable citizens to suffer as little as possible from income cuts, including - in the area of unemployment - the adjustment of the temporary unemployment procedure, the freezing of the degressiveness of full unemployment benefits and the period of benefit for integration benefits, the daily supplement granted for temporary unemployment and the granting of the end-of-year premium, the protection premium for persons who have suffered a number of days of temporary unemployment during the year. As you know, it was decided to extend these measures until 30 June 2021. These are the few elements of an answer that I could bring to you. I propose to send you, via the secretariat of the committee, the table showing the various beneficiaries of the total unemployment benefit for the three categories I mentioned at the beginning of the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u63	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, these different elements, categories and figures will have to be re-examined head-to-head. There is no doubt that our concern is that people who do not benefit from the integration income premium, or from the unemployment benefit for force majeure, find themselves in situations where, not only do they not have the opportunity to return to the world of work for the time being, but they are also punished month after month. Indeed, people who were likely to have some savings - what we call a "matelas" - no longer have one after a year of crisis. So there are always people who pass between the meshes of the net of all the aids, and we will be attentive so that this is not the case, and I know that you are also.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u64	Mr Minister, thank you and, as my colleague has said, I will also analyse the table containing the three categories of beneficiaries and the figures. You have pointed out that many steps have already been taken and I appreciate the work done by your firm. Let us not create distinctions and put in place measures to help all those who are experiencing difficulties and who are currently in a very precarious situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the health crisis has amplified the precariousness of our artists, workers and workers in the cultural sector. Considered, if I dare say, as "non-essential", this sector pays a very heavy price as a result of the closures. You have, of course, reacted very quickly with emergency measures that have limited the damage, even if many people are slow to receive their allowances. This is quite understandable given the multiplication of the files. The authorities have made painful choices by stopping certain sectors to allow children and adolescents to resume school and our health system to hold up. It is known that these choices were motivated by the restriction of contacts. Unfortunately, we must rework with our (...). So we take a little step backwards. But these sectors are not non-essential sectors! On the contrary, they are essential for the economy and all the citizens to whom they allow a bit of escape and offer personal cultural enrichment. Aid has been granted to cultural institutions, also to the Region. But, at the end of the chain, the workers of the cultural sector, of the living spectacle, deprived of the stage, remain on the tile. Beyond the difficulty of surviving for long months with only those of unemployment as income, they are also dispossessed in their profession. They don't have contact with the public anymore. It's really another way to work. It's really demotivating morally. Symbolically, Quentin Dujardin's concert in the church of Crupet was intended as a warning signal. How can we understand that a musician is deprived of a public of 15 people respecting health measures, while the same public could have attended Mass in the same space? It's really a total incomprehension for me who's also in the cultural sector. How to understand that even today groups of 50 people in supermarkets can take place when a sector has been locked up for several months, without interlude, even when the figures have allowed it for other sectors. How can we understand that theatres that respect strict protocols cannot allow artists to practice their profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u66	Mrs Leoni, I invite you to shorten your question a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u67	Madam President, I apologize for exceeding my speaking time. I come directly to my questions. Mr Minister, is it not time to consider the timetable for a gradual reopening, with strict and tested protocols, for this sector? Is it not time to consider the return to work of those who give meaning to our society and who are now in distress? But beyond the urgency of reopening this sector of activity, structural reform of the status of artist is paramount. You have announced an additional budget to support workers in this sector that really trusts you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u68	Mrs Leoni, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u69	I conclude, Madam President. Minister, what is the precise timetable for the reform, with a precise perspective of recovery and a status as an artist and worthy of that name? Madam President, I would like to ask you to excuse me for exceeding my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u70	Mrs Leoni, I would like to inform you that you have exceeded your speaking time by two minutes, since you have spoken for four minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u71	In order to move forward in our work, I would like to present you with my speaking time and refer to the text of my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to be very clear, like you, I consider culture an essential activity. Of course, the decisions taken by the Conciliation Committee in which I participate and with which I stand in solidarity do not please me. This concerns the cultural sector, but also all other sectors of activity or life in society in general. However, I remain convinced that these decisions were necessary, knowing that I am still trying to avoid opposing one sector to another. Indeed, this virus affects the population in a similar way. Overall, we are all affected, although it is true that some sectors, some activities are more affected than others and that the latter deserve significant additional support from different governments, but also from society as a whole. Indeed, we know that the sectors which are now at a standstill are to the benefit of all, which must be taken into account. I am obviously aware that the cultural season will be and is already greatly amputated. I have asked the government to put in place new measures for workers in the cultural sector. Thus, the minimum compensation for artist status has been increased and the reference period for obtaining crisis protection measures has been extended to 30 June 2020. In addition, together with my colleague, Karine Lalieux, I have set up a budget for young victims of the crisis and, in particular, for jobist students in the cultural sector. We know it's an area that provides a lot of work to our students. In view of the closure of this sector, it was important to take account of the situation of the latter. As you know, as far as the issues of artist status are concerned, consultations with representatives of the sector are still under way to formulate proposals. Several concrete proposals are put on the table by actors in the cultural sector. Most of them agree on the need first of all to provide more accessible protection, then simpler and, above all, better compensated, for all artistic or technical fields in the cultural sector. The proposals that I will make with my fellow Members, MM. Vandenbroucke and Clarinval will obviously take into account the requests made by the sector. With regard to Mrs Leroy's particular issues, we have put in place a buffer period to ensure that cultural workers are not further penalized by the crisis. Indeed, the law of 15 July 2020 provides for an extension of the reference period for the granting and maintenance of the status of artist, which covers the period from 13 March 2020 to 31 December 2020. I proposed that this measure be extended until 30 June 2021 to cover the entire period of crisis. In any case, we hope so. Workers in the sector will therefore not be penalized in terms of their status. The same applies to the concept of suitable employment. As far as the renewals of status are concerned, I do of course want to avoid a re-burdening of payment funds. That is why I have asked the ONEM to ask the payment bodies to anticipate and already carry out the renewals of status, so that there are no further steps to be taken when the law of 15 July 2020 ceases to be in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u73	Minister, I can hear your answers. I know that the constraints are really important, that the health crisis is still present. But simply, I think the confidence of the cultural sector is coming back, and I am very pleased with it. In this situation of insecurity, they just need prospects. But I have every confidence in your communications and your schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u74	Minister, I would like to come back to two things. It is true that very positive signals are given in relation to this buffer period where it is said that there will be renewal and that this should not cause a new congestion at the time when the law of 15 July will cease to be in force. I also propose to go a step further; that is to say to consider also that the renewal of this status, with three contracts, risks in any case to be extremely complicated in 2021 and therefore after the cessation of the implementation of the law of 15 July. The proposal is as follows: in any case, it will take at least one year for a return to normal and for everyone to reconstitute this portfolio of three contracts to be proposed to the ONEM. Today, it must be said to these artists that, anyway, when the law ceases to be applied, there will be the opportunity to take a year to review and propose a renewal. This seems to me to be a proposal that will facilitate the work of the ONEM while also being extremely positive for the sector. The message to people in this sector is not to worry about it because when it happens again, they will also have a few months before them to turn around and renew their contract. This is a proposal that I will ask you to be attentive and perhaps think about whether it is not possible to propose something in this style.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u75	Mr Loones is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u76	Minister, I did not see much light in the coalition agreement, but the mention that the Länder are given the opportunity to turn a holiday into a paid holiday was one. Meanwhile, the Communities and the Brussels-Capital Region have long had an official holiday. For a number of state officials and also for part of the private sector, which does so on a voluntary basis, this is already a paid holiday, but for many other workers from the relevant Communities this is still not the case. That passage in the coalition agreement raises a few questions, because one can walk different slopes to realize them. An inspiration could be a bill of the Flemish Interest with No. 55-1466 by giving the Communities their holiday by a decision of the federal government. Another option is to transfer jurisdiction to the Länder themselves. The question also arises as to whether "the Länder" mean the Communities or the Regions. In any case, the latter is not the preferred option, because it would mean that the German-speaking Community would fall out of business. The passage in the coalition agreement also seems to suggest that the Länder are 'enabled' to turn a holiday into a paid day for everyone, in other words that the choice lies with them whether or not to do so. I asked the Minister for Institutional Reforms about a state of affairs and she informed me that you are currently examining how that passage from the government agreement can be implemented. So, Minister, I would like to ask you how far you stand with this analysis. What steps does one intend to take in implementing the passage of the coalition agreement? What timetable do you want to follow? Will the Communities be left to decide whether or not to introduce that paid holiday? Will we opt for the Communities or for the Regions? How do we expect to achieve this? Does this happen through federal decision-making or by handing the matter over to the Communities? Finally, what does one think when one announces that the introduction of the paid holiday should take place without any additional budgetary costs? I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u77	The government agreement does indeed provide for the Länder to be given the opportunity to turn their holiday into a paid holiday, but without any additional budgetary costs. My administration has already examined which legislation needs to be amended. So far we have not received an explicit demand from the regions to make this a priority, although I keep in regular contact with colleagues from the Länder. I can assure you that we are working on this period of government so that the Länder will have the opportunity to turn their holiday into a paid holiday, if they so wish. For the sake of clarity, the Länder mean both the Regions and the Communities. One possibility to avoid budgetary additional costs is the mandatory introduction of a replacement day for a Land holiday. However, this needs to be clarified further. You understand that implementation will have to be discussed with both my colleague in charge of Civil Service and Public Enterprises, and the ministers responsible for Institutional Reforms. Finally, I would like to point out that the social partners must also be consulted, because of course there is an impact on companies, for example in the case of cross-regional employment. That consultation has not yet started.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u78	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have not been clear about all my questions: I do not know, for example, whether a federal decision is going to be taken, or whether the choice will be left to the Länder, but I understand that this is part of this stage of the investigation into the legislation to be applied. Indeed, I hope that the possibility will be introduced in this period of government, as it is stated in the government agreement of that government. A somewhat earlier timing would have been welcome, but you apparently expect an explicit demand from the Länder. I find it remarkable that you mention both the Communities and the regions, because in practice that would even amount to two partial public holidays in some cases. I also understand that you will have a lot of discussions with colleagues and social partners. We will certainly follow the matter closely with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-30-definitief-55-commissie-ic427x.u79	The next meeting with Minister Dermagne will take place on 27 April 2021 in the afternoon. Question No 55014289C by Mr Gaby Colebunders is transformed into a written question. Members who wish to convert their question into a written question may send an email to the commission service. In the case of combined questions, the agreement of all the questioners is necessary.
