ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u2	I propose that you devote one discussion to these three bills. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three draft laws. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Steven Matheï, Mr Marco Van Hees and Mr Thomas Roggeman, as well as Mrs Sophie Thémont, Mrs Cécile Cornet, Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys and Mrs Kim Buyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u4	Madam President, before we begin the sitting, I would like to say the following. We have received an e-mail from the services stating that the amendments must be tabled before 08.30 a.m. this morning. In terms of intent, we would certainly like to go along with that, but I do not rule out the possibility that the debates still give rise to amendments. We reserve the right to submit them. I believe that this can be done perfectly, but as a starting point we want to stick to the deadline as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u5	No problem, Mr. De Roover. Mr Matheï, would you like to speak for the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u6	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Matheï.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the twenty minutes at our disposal are absolutely not enough to fill in the policy of this government. Fortunately, my colleagues will soon have the opportunity to discuss specific issues. I shall therefore confine myself to a number of main points. A budget is the policy reduction for the coming year. That is why general political considerations are appropriate here. A first observation, Prime Minister, is the amateurism of your government. That has also been shown today and this week. Your government specializes in submitting urgent proposals because the work is always very late. There are still numerous amendments to this. If we then request a technical note, we will receive pages from your services that contain comments and contain formal errors. The situation is so bad that the law will not even be able to adopt various provisions within the normal time limit. This is, of course, particularly alarming for the quality of legislation and regulation, and it is contrary to your intention to conduct policies in a better way. Luckily for you, that may remain outside the dome of this organ rather unnoticed. A second observation is the lack of coherence in your team. Where is the time you referred to Michael Jordan? I don't think you're gonna do that today. Working together would be the way to good results, so you showed quite lyrical. In the meantime, we can see that the opposition is quite unemployed. We sit in the gallery week after week watching the groups of the majority fly into each other's hair, if that is not the case by party chairmen. That lack of coherence, of course, has everything to do with, to describe it positively, the wingspan of your coalition, which means that you often have to reconcile water and fire. That cannot be done, and that leads to great indecision in your government. This indecision also sometimes translates into false pretences in your policy. Let me give you a few examples. The flight tax sounds like a climate measure, a measure to ensure that people adjust their behavior and fill in more ecologically. At the same time, we note that you have entered the proceeds into your budget and that it is in reality a flat tax measure. Each specialist will tell you that this measure has no behavior steering effect. So you are talking about a climate measure, but in reality it is a tax measure, of which we still do not know what is happening. You are again increasing excise duties on tobacco. At the State of the Union, you asked me if I didn't agree that smoking is unhealthy. Yes, I agree. That's one of the reasons why I quit smoking. Many others have already done so. Of course, you have not taken a health measure, but you have taken another tax measure. Its revenue is entered in your budget. So you're counting on people not to quit smoking. In fact, you should write on a pack of cigarettes: 'Smoking is good for the budget'. After all, you are taking advantage of the proceeds of your excise duty increases. Once again, this is a policy of pretences and false argumentation. All that is used for a tax shift. The Christian Democrats are very happy to deal with this. In the future, the solidarity contribution will be reduced by around €6 per couple and per month. That's not so spectacular. I recommend all those who enjoy this tax shift to realize that every time they take a plane, they pay their own tax shift. This amounts to EUR 150 million in a total amount of EUR 1.2 billion, which represents more than 10% of the solidarity contribution financed through citizens' efforts. I have another proposal for a tax shift, namely the fight against tax fraud. Last week in this gallery, for fans of the genre, it gave rise to entertaining scenes. In fact, it has come so far that in the following days the Minister of Finance has flagged back the Minister of the Interior on the National Security Plan and the place of the fight against tax fraud in police work. The fact that both ministers are from the same party was a novelty: we had not yet seen them start to bake. If we then ask the Minister of Finance whether he has realized the 200 million entered in the 2021 budget, the answer is that it is not really possible to estimate it and it is difficult to put a figure on it. However, that is not difficult, because in this budget you have turned the 200 million into 400 million. So you do have a number on it. Mr Prime Minister, if I believe for a moment that you will succeed in bringing in the 400 million - despite the fact that we are dealing with this - through the fight against tax fraud, I would really like to urge you not to use it to increase your revenue from the government, but to use it for a tax shift. We would then get the 400 million from people who have been so naughty so far not to follow tax legislation. It's a good thing you'd have a law and order policy there, too. But why do people who pay their taxes correctly not have the right to extract 400 million tax relief from them? Why don't you write that 400 million anti-fraud into an equally large reduction in your income tax? At that time, there is, firstly, a tax shift which is much larger than the one which is so eager to be unpacked today, but, secondly, the good taxpayers are finally rewarded for following the legislation properly. In short, there is a huge contradiction in your government and it leads to a lack of long-term vision in many areas. I could mention nuclear energy, which will certainly be mentioned a great deal today. I understand that you have made an attempt until last night to finally reach the point where it was promised that this would have happened at the end of November. Something very special is happening there. A few weeks ago you asked who was surprised by the letter from ENGIE stating that an extension could no longer be possible. Anyone who believes your coalition agreement was surprised at that. After all, your coalition agreement states that it was still possible in November. In the meantime, your coalition will continue to work on that. Tonight at one o'clock, you broke up on the matter. There are two more details to settle: security of supply and cost. I think these are the things the people at home are awake about. Will their lamp stay on and at what price? You don't have an answer to that. This is therefore a fundamental failure of your government in a fundamental task of a government, namely to ensure that people can see their lights on affordable and forward-looking. There too, your government is failing miserably. Another issue is pensions. Is Mrs Lalieux still in your government, Prime Minister? We haven't heard from that in a while. In September, she said that she submitted her retirement plan because the government agreement stated that she had to do so in September. That's the last we've heard of it. She was criticized on all sides. You then said that you would finally come up with a pension plan in the autumn. Today is the shortest day of the year and the longest night, Prime Minister. Maybe you could use that long night to cut some buttons in your government after all. People are awake from that retirement plan. How insured is the pension? To what extent will that have a budgetary impact? If we do not find any trace of this in the budget, this means that you do not seem to have any spectacular plans for retirement in 2022 either. Do you have a plan? Or is the only plan to postpone the plans until it is probably too close to the elections to do anything in that area? Surely it is a fundamental failure, Prime Minister, if you do not have a pension scheme worked out? Then I come to the point of safety. I still have a long list, so I'll hurry. Whatever one thinks of the government, it's a government task to have a well-functioning, wide-ranging police force. We note that the Minister of the Interior has forgotten to provide for the budgets in the budget negotiations in order to meet the wishes of the police unions, at least in part. As a result, negotiations are now under way with a shift of resources within the Interior. Should the Minister reach an agreement with the trade unions, but she is still a long way from it, other police resources will have to be taken away. That also means that tomorrow we will have a police budget that will probably go up to 100 percent. Perhaps we will then have to take away the water guns from the children if we are going to work to put something in the holster. You haven't made any budgetary arrangements to put police forces in order. Against the background of the last two years, the policy of health is something that is of interest to all of us. Your government, and in particular your Health Minister, is very strict on the citizen, but unfortunately less strict on himself and on this government. If a booster campaign - enormously successful thanks to the efforts of many volunteers and local authorities - is launched too late, then that is a failure when it happens in the fourth phase of a crisis. If you delay too long to shorten the time limits for the booster shot, that is a policy failure. An even more important policy failure is that your Health Minister, and therefore your government - when everything is said in the newspapers about the coronavirus every day - has still not come up with the idea of emergency planning. How are we going to deal with this on top of regular care? You have the very strange idea that normal, regular care should suffice in an extreme crisis. What are the contingency plans for a fifth wave? That can be achieved, let us have no illusions about it. Then how will you scale up? Prime Minister, if regular care is to be postponed today because the health system cannot handle it in a fourth wave - in a first or second wave that could still be understood - then your Health Minister will fail in his basic mission, namely to ensure that every citizen can receive normal and guaranteed care. Your government is failing in this respect, and this budget gives no indication that you have experienced a real organisational emergency. Against the backdrop of what we are experiencing, that is annoying. When we talk about a budget, we are talking about health, safety and taxation, but also about income and expenditure. In addition to the other major benefits of an activation policy, good activation policy also has a huge impact on the budget. We should not increase people's taxes, because then more people contribute. The benefits should not be reduced, because there will be fewer people who receive benefits. What have you done and what will you do to stimulate activation? Your President of Open Vld agreed in a debate that I had with him in mid-June 2021, which had been carried out until then on the left-wing agenda and that his party had supported the inactivation in many areas. But there were reasons for that, he said. It had to be for social reasons. However, in the second half of 2021, activation measures should finally be put in place. He put that on TV as well as in interviews afterwards. Six months have passed. A plan had to be drawn up by Mr Dermagne in the autumn. That's exactly what Egbert Lachaert said. So that's now. However, not only is that plan not there, there are no indications in the budget that you have the ambition to do something with it in 2022. After all, it is the 2022 budget that indicates what you will be doing in the coming period. In terms of activation, therefore, we remain completely hungry. Prime Minister, I need my last five minutes of speaking time. What's left of it anyway? What is actually for 2022, on which you can say that the government offers perspective and policies and in which the coalition partners find each other? I am very sorry, but this is not reflected in the overall document, which brings our figures to the lower regions of the European Union and, unlike most European Member States, increases our overall debt even more. At this point, too, your policy is failing across the board. It seems that your government was compared with a Fiat by one of the party chairmen who constantly criticize you, in particular the party chairmen of your government parties. That comparison is very appealing to me. I drive a very small Fiat. But at least the thing's going somewhere. Let me explain to you why. When I get in my Fiat, I'll take the wheel. That's something you don't do. You believe that the technology has already advanced so far that you have a self-driving Fiat and that you do not have to go near the wheel. Prime Minister, your lack of authority is the fundamental problem we are talking about. That is why ministers do not care about even the existence of a prime minister. That is why party presidents afford everything. That's because you have no authority. You had, of course, predicted this; that is one of the few predictions that have been made. You have indeed become the mop of the Rue de la Loi, as you indicated, and it is very strange that you erased those words, which have been so true, from your memory at the time when the chance of the Sixteen offered itself. Today you are also sitting with the fried pears: you are a " sufferer" of a government, of a baking club. I'm quoting another Open Vld'er. Mr Lachaert has just spoken very true words. He said, "A dead body can't be resuscitated." That's what he called a case of therapeutic persistence. I totally agree with him, but he chose the wrong theme. After all, he talked about nuclear energy, which happens to be the most blushing child in the cradle of the future energy mix in every country that is a bit forward-looking, a promising baby, but absolutely not a corpse. However, that baby is being killed in the cradle by the government, which is a huge failure. However, the sentence is correct: a body is not being warmed up, Prime Minister, and your budget is not a budget but a eulogy. You admit numerically that you are unable to give any perspective to the country. We are almost 2022, which is half the normal term of office and everyone knows that if a government wants to do something, it must at least have made the plans in the first half of the legislature. There are no plans now; so all hope is lost that something will actually happen that will at least bring us to the speed of the people where we belong. This must be established today: high prices, including for energy, a supply risk, security structures that are not sufficiently strengthened, a failing health system, fiscal reforms, which are peanuts, and a budget that is heavily in the red, despite a large number of tax increases. Mr Prime Minister, the question of 2022 can actually be summarised as follows: what will your resilience still be in these circumstances, in which you are the punching bag of the whole majority? If I were in your place, I would go to sleep regularly in the evening with the difficult question on the lips whether I would not throw the "mop" in the ring the next day.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u9	I waited until the end of your speech, for 20 minutes, to see if you would come forward with a concrete proposal for the government. I've waited 20 minutes to find out if you have any alternative or other ideas. I could have waited maybe half an hour or 40 minutes, but I don't know if that would have brought much solace. I have not heard from you any constructive, constructive, positive alternative to our country. It was, in fact, a series of generalities in which you listed the issues on which no agreement has yet been reached, namely pensions, energy, security and police and the core exit. In a relatively short period of time, the government has taken a number of difficult decisions and made decisions in difficult cases, such as the securities tax, the wage agreement, the greening of payroll cars, the distribution of European relay money, renewable energy, wind energy at sea times three. The government has launched a number of important projects. It is true, we are indeed not yet at the end of the ride and there are still difficult knots to cut. However, reform sometimes takes time and the courage to want to reform, to dare, is sometimes not evident. With seven parties this sometimes takes some time and these are sometimes difficult discussions. At the very least, the government tries to cut a number of buttons that have sometimes been waiting for a solution in our country for decades. Part of the explanation why things are sometimes difficult is because the previous government, the Swedish Government, where you were in the cockpit, left those decisions behind. Where was the major pension reform? The nuclear exit, the nuclear exit and the preparation for the future, modern technology, renewable energy, the files have been simmered and abandoned. Now that actually comes on our plate. The slackening, hesitant policy of the past few years is part of the explanation why it is now difficult. I have heard no alternatives, no solutions, negative ones, an opposition unworthy of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u10	A general rule in politics is that someone who has a good file speaks about his own file. On the other hand, when someone asks how the opposition would solve it, it is because he does not have a good file. Today, your government's budget and general expenditure budget 2022 are on the agenda. That is the subject of today's debate. As you know the difficult situation in which you are defending this document, you are trying to change your approach by talking about a topic that is not on the agenda, in particular what the next government in which the N-VA is in will do. If we ever submit a budget again, I invite you to have that debate. However, do not hide behind your own incompetence by throwing the ball in the direction of a group that saw your majority vote on amendment after amendment for a year. That means that every constructive contribution we have made by you was blindly ignored, as a machine your finger automatically goes to the red button. This is not because the N-VA proposal would be bad, but because the N-VA proposal comes from the N-VA. That's your way of doing new politics. It is also the case in all committees. How hypocritical is it then to ask here, in this debate, what is our alternative? Do you really have no argument for defending your own budget? That is the only conclusion we have to make. Soon you will be taking up the stands in an attempt to warm up the body that we have to discuss today. We will, of course, ask critical questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u11	Thank you very much, Mr De Roover. No, Mr De Vriendt, you will not have the floor. Your group will now have the floor and the twenty-minute speaking time will begin. I call Mr Vanbesien. (...):(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u12	(...) You are killing the parliamentary debate, Madam President. (...) I ask for a suspension of the parliamentary session. (...) (...):(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u13	If everyone gets the floor for 2 minutes, so 150 times 2 minutes, that would be unreasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u14	Madam President, I wish to speak. Madam President, I call on all the Members present in the Conference of Presidents to testify, Mr Laaouej, first. He specifically said that any intervention could last two minutes. Madam President, you immediately made a mistake, because that intervention lasted longer than two minutes. Mr Laaouej also said that it should not be the intention to ask for five or six times two minutes, which is correct. However, this is the second intervention and it is already being abandoned. What are we doing here this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u15	What Mr De Roover said is quite right, that is what was said in the Conference of Presidents, to try precisely to avoid an endless and limitless ping-pong, and to avoid – without forcing the parliamentary debate – what happened in the European Parliament. Mr. De Roover is absolutely right. I think we should try to show some respect for each other, as well as temperance. I said I agreed, I can't say more.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u16	This concludes the debate. I shall therefore return the floor to Mr. De Vriendt, so that he could intervene again, while specifying, Mr. De Roover, that you had more than two minutes to reply to Mr. De Vriendt, and that Mr. De Vriendt had exactly two minutes and five seconds. You've had two minutes and ten seconds, I've got my time in front of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u17	Madam President, I think it is right that we should be able to interrupt each other once in a while, without exaggerating, of course. What Mr De Roover is actually saying is that he has the right to bring a negative story without coming up with alternative proposals in this general budget debate. There may be differences of opinion on this issue. I disagree. When we were in the opposition at the time, we always tried to make a constructive opposition, not to combine negativity, to break down and, above all, to emphasise which issues there is no agreement yet. As I said earlier, it is quite easy. But this government is working, she's doing her best. She's making difficult decisions. We are not yet in a number of areas, that is absolutely true. Mr De Roover, I would particularly like to intervene because of your observation that we are guilty of parliamentary party politics. I was in the Finance Committee yesterday, rather coincidentally because I am not a permanent member of that committee. We had a number of important decisions to take before the end of this year. As far as taxation is concerned, this is often the case. Well, in the Committee on Finance there is a draft law laying down various provisions. What I have heard from your group really defies any imagination. We heard your group say there that it would not approve the draft bill before us. So far. It was also said, however, that they would ask for a second reading, which would require Parliament to meet again next week and the staff to be present. You're actually running obstructionist policies. After all, what was the explanation for that second reading? Your group said at that time that it would block this because it did not agree. As far as I know, a group votes against if it does not agree with a draft law, but it does not prevent the proper functioning of Parliament or the government decisions that are being taken. As far as lessons on correct parliamentary action are concerned, Mr De Roover, we certainly have no lessons to learn from you since yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u18	It's true that it's easy to write a negative story. However, that is up to you. Your budget reads as a negative story, without inspiration, without ambition, without solutions. We can talk about that in full for the rest of the day. Your comment on that meeting of the Finance Committee is very special. First of all, we react after months of asking us very goodly not to exaggerate with these urgencys and to enable us to perform parliamentary work in a serious way. That was ignored every time by this government, towards the ridiculous. Two weeks ago, there was a situation where you were not even able to say why urgency was requested. We ask for urgent treatment because it is urgent, that was about the motivation. Colleague, let me refresh your memory, because you were so constructive and positive in the opposition, weren't you? When the three-way proposal for 500 euros was made without tax, the reform of corporate tax and the CD&V package, do you remember how the opposition refused to approve that before New Year? Do you remember how at that time, although the date of 1 January was of the utmost importance for the reform of corporate taxation, you went to the extreme to force the majority to cut those three elements? With a threat, you made the forcing. You were opposed to corporate tax reform, but that is not the point. You would block the treatment of that reform if we did not disconnect the CD&V and Open Vld proposals. It wasn't until after that decoupling that you dropped that threat. The company tax reform was dealt with and the two other elements were not adopted before 31 December, so there was no debate and vote in that period comparable to the current one. If you are looking for an explanation for our current actions in the Finance Committee, then you have taught us how to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u19	I'm not talking about you. I see others who want to speak, but we agreed in the Conference of Presidents that statements would be made vis-à-vis the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two speakers will speak for our group. I will use ten minutes of time and my colleague Gilles Vanden Burre will join for the next ten minutes. No one could have predicted a few months ago that we would have to have another budget debate in this setting today. The corona crisis has dominated our country and the whole world for almost two years now. It's clear it's not over yet. Nor can we predict what the future will bring. That's why Ecolo-Groen is calling today to be humble. The government is presenting this budget on the basis of the situation as we knew it when it was drawn up. However, we all know that there is a great chance that we will have to make adjustments again. It is therefore about adjustments for the benefit of our society: additional financial support for those who are struggling, resources to support our economy and to keep it right. I hope that everyone will understand this and show the necessary cooperation when it is necessary. Politics in itself is a beautiful stile, which can really change the lives of the Belgians. Vivaldi did that this year. We are united. We provided affordable energy bills for 1 million families. There were more hands on the bed, through the care staff fund. Minimum pensions and benefits are increased. We're showing decisiveness. 55% of federal relance expenditure goes to the climate transition. We have a Belgian climate plan to drastically reduce CO2 emissions. We triple our capacity of wind energy at sea. We're building a hydrogen network. However, we also reform. There are important reforms in the Justice Department, such as sexual criminal law. The first steps towards a major fiscal reform were also taken. The most important thing is perhaps the steps towards 100% renewable energy, which are taken every day without much drama. Today, the budget is ahead of us to live up to our ambitions for 2022, including the fight against corona. These are concrete short-term measures, but above all, and this is very important, measures that support a long-term vision. There is an ambitious investment plan for the future, with investments leading to the economy of the future. That won't be the same economy as the past. Globally, we see the transition to a renewable economy: digitalisation is accelerated, our way of transport, both individuals and goods, is being reviewed. Changes must be made to the current way of globalising. An important role in this investment story is the Federal Participation and Investment Company, the FPIM, which will increasingly be the unique place for the management of all shares of the federal government. Moreover, the FPIM manages an important fund, the transformation and transition fund, to realise additional investments in our economy. These investments will help companies to move towards the economy of the future. As far as transport is concerned, this government is investing in the railways. It is our country's ambition to be an international hub of train traffic and to provide commuters with the services they deserve. This is why the grants to these companies are being greatly increased. In addition to investments, we also focus on taxation, as has already been mentioned. In the short term, we are shifting funds from large-earning people to ordinary families, a tax shift from footballers, expats and people with well-stocked securities accounts to one million families that we support to get their energy bill paid. We are also working on a thorough reform of taxation. Key words in it are more modern, simpler and more just. Everyone must contribute as much as possible, according to their own capacity. The strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads. At the same time, the new system must allow us to continue to operate as a driving force, by imposing more taxes on things that we do not like and therefore want to advise against, versus less taxes on things that we have less and therefore want to encourage or encourage. The reduction of the burden on labour is an important part of this. That will have to be worked out thoroughly in the tax reform that will be discussed by Parliament in 2022, but we are already starting in the short term. Next year there will be a tax shift that reduces the burden on labour and benefits everyone who works, including the middle class. We must, of course, pay a great deal of attention to lower wages in the major fiscal reform, everyone must be paid to work, but we must not forget the middle class either. The middle class now contributes a lot and we also need to reduce the burden for those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u22	As far as major reforms are concerned, we must wait and see. It seems that this year something will come of "Who lives, will see" about what is now in the budget for the middle class. Could you put a number on it, Mr Vanbesien? What am I supposed to imagine? Now take a couple, consisting of a nurse and a teacher. In what order size will they experience relief with your tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u23	There are a number of measures that are beneficial to the middle class. For example, there is the abolition of part of the special contribution to social security, or a partial reform of the energy bill, which removes federal charges. In principle, that amounts to a few hundred euros for the middle class.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u24	Apparently, this special contribution amounts to EUR 150 per family per year. Could you also be more specific about the invoice? The nurse and the teacher are not among those 20% of the population mentioned. So they're not getting any of that. Can you be anything more concrete than "a few hundred euros"? The only thing you specifically mention is EUR 6 per month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u25	Mr Vanbesien, have you read the front page of Time today? The gas price goes times three. Those are facts we agree on, aren't they? What are you gonna do? Will you introduce a tax shift from taxation of electricity to taxation of natural gas in this situation, which specialists say contains structural elements and that the gas price will remain high? Secondly, as Mr De Roover says, the Flemish and federal efforts together will be combined! EUR 8 shall not be on a monthly basis. Those who do not belong to the 20% group and are therefore not entitled to the social tariff will see their new advance invoice going from 380 to 370 euros, for example. Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u26	Mr Vanbesien, like you, I have always found it strange that a party such as the N-VA that brought VAT on gas and electricity from 6% to 21% today complains about the high energy bill. But what I don't understand is that Vivaldi is now taking measures that, in general terms, will not bring any relief for what is called the middle class. You concentrate everything on the 20 % poorest. Turns out what? The social rate will also increase by 8% and 12% respectively. This means that these people are going to have a hard time despite their social tariffs. Then the question is: what do we do for all other people? I believe that one measure is efficient: reducing VAT from 21% to 6%. How can one still maintain the same VAT on gas and electricity as on caviar and champagne? Come on! We have registered that 6% in the Tax Code to bring the VAT on basic products to 6%. Mr Vanbesien, will Ecolo-Groen in the next few weeks work on this VAT reduction to help everyone in the country to cope with these price increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u27	Mr Vanbesien, the situation is different. What is this government going to do next year to lower the energy bill? 26 million. What's the extra cost? According to the National Bank, it amounts to 1.8 billion a month. If the 26 million is distributed among the families, a family will receive 5.2 euros. According to the CREG, the extra cost per family is EUR 2600. If you claim that hundreds of euros flow to the middle class, you may have misplaced a comma, I fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u28	Colleagues, this government is working on a tax shift for the middle class, step by step, and with several measures that we can deepen during the discussions. Mr Hedebouw, you are right: reducing VAT on energy from 21% to 6% is a possibility. We deliberately do not choose to do so. In our view, this is not the best way to deal with our energy policy. After all, it gives the signal that energy consumption is less important in itself. Who benefits most from a VAT reduction? That those who consume most energy. We believe that a reduction in VAT will boost the consumption of energy rather than reduce it. We do not believe that this is the right measure. In addition, energy prices are also included in the index. If VAT is reduced, thus avoiding an index adjustment, this reduction in purchasing power will not have made any difference. For these reasons, we believe that a VAT reduction is not the best measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u29	Mr Vanbesien, in your answer to a number of questions you often used the verb "mean" in the first person. I don't think so. But that's a detail. You should take a look at the scenes left and right behind you. It states: resource budget and general expenditure budget 2022. 2022 is very important. Let me ask you a very simple question. You're referring to a tax shift, apparently in 2022. Can you give me a list of the measures that have been calculated, because that is what a budget is about, with a view to your tax shift so that we really know how people will benefit from it in 2022? That is what you are proclaiming here, in very vague terms. Then give us the quantified measures for 2022. That is what this debate is about, and only about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u30	Mr Vanbesien, I appreciate the debate. We both like to debate such important social issues. However, I cannot go along with your reasoning that you cannot reduce VAT because it creates a knock-on effect for people. What world does Green live in? Really. The prices are now so high. I don't know people who, if they lower VAT, open the windows. That just doesn't exist! That's just not true!. Secondly, it is also not true that it is the richest who consume the most. The last two deciles consume more because their houses are not well insulated. Because of their poverty, poorer people consume more energy. What you're saying is just factually wrong. Thirdly, if you want to make the richer people pay, do not do so via VAT. Then what will you do? Are you going to increase the VAT on the bread because the rich eat more bread, are you going to increase the VAT on the petrol because the rich drive more by car? If you want to make the rich pay, you use a wealth tax. That is efficient, because by definition this tax is aimed at the greatest capabilities. However, you do not do that with the tax shift. For example, look at the impact tax. Who puts their shares on securities accounts? These are not the great rich, for they have shares in name, but the middle class, which you once again touch. If you want to hit the 2 % richest... I can hear the taboo on wealth tax, but we're still going to talk about it. If you want to hit the 2 percent richest, you will introduce a capital tax to which everyone who has more than 2 million euros in his till will be subject. That's the 2 percent richest. All the other measures you are taking are once again making the famous middle class pay, and that is a disgrace. Make the rich pay for the crisis, but don't make it pay to the workers who have the pleasure of having two wages at home. That's a bad decision by Vivaldi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u31	Higher energy prices, perhaps we should talk about the facts, Mr Wollants. You say that the total effort made by the federal government amounts to EUR 16 million. Where do you get that grade? The continuation of the social rate for Q1 next year costs 208 million euros. This reduces the invoice by 650 euros for 20% of the population, for the group that is weakest. First of all, you ignore that and act like we wouldn't. Secondly, you are asking whether the efforts we will make for the weakest are the right ones. Would it be a responsible budgetary policy if we were to do something small for the whole population and not look logically at who the higher energy prices cause the most problems and what problem we will solve? I note that the government has decided to reduce by EUR 650 for people with problems. You ask yourself how we help people who are having a hard time. Well, this is how we help people who are having a hard time. You are actually here to talk, because the EUR 16 million you are talking about is to implement the choice we have made to support a certain group that does not benefit from a social tariff, but would have problems for other reasons. That is why the government has decided to help these people again. So you are simply here to tell complete nonsense and ignore what very decisive measures the government is taking to help people who are having a hard time through a difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u32	Prime Minister, I'm afraid it's been a long night, because you have another kind of kindergarten class moment today. I would like to say that you are talking about something completely different. The discussion with Mr Vanbesien just now was about the middle class, which does not receive a social rate. The middle class isn't getting anything. You're wondering where I'm gonna get the $26 million. I got that from the Energy Minister. The Minister for Energy said that we are correcting the EUR 26 million invoice in the budget for the middle class. You are talking about the 16 million that would be distributed through the OCMWs and that your same Energy Minister says she doesn't know how that should end up with the middle class, because it may well end up with the people who get a social tariff again for a large part, and she wouldn't control it. The EUR 26 million, which is EUR 5.2 per family, is what has been put forward in your own budget tables, which you apparently do not know about. Prime Minister, I would like to go to the bar with you for an afternoon and explain the whole story to you in order to avoid that kind of sillyness, but unfortunately you are completely wrong here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u33	Mr Wollants, your answer is not very respectful. You may differ, but you can have the debate in a slightly more respectful way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u34	Prime Minister, what you say is very interesting. It was a bit of a deaf talk, because it was about a different number. But you are right: the government is also taking initiatives for the most difficult people, for the most vulnerable as you describe them. The extension of the social tariff is indeed a good thing, but this is not the case. The front page of The Time referred to has shocked everyone. The annual gas bill for an average family in Flanders has increased from 934 euros to 2.708 euros. When I read that this morning, it scared me, too. We all make a very good living, but a lot of people are getting really cold about this. The debate should not be about the social tariff or about EUR 26 million. If the invoice continues to rise because of circumstances that we cannot do as much, such as the international gas price, which has fallen somewhat, but which will rise again, and the very difficult international context, then the question that people are asking for today is whether the government will take further initiatives. There is a proposal to reduce VAT; other proposals have been tabled. Will you and your government take additional initiatives to support the middle class in the payment of the gas and energy bill in the coming months? Those invoices are coming up. You will also receive a lot of mails and letters. Everyone's holding their hearts. These invoices will arrive in January, February or March. Is there an appointment in the government with the PS, Vooruit, Green and other colleagues to look for an intervention for the middle class? That answer should be given today. That is actually what I, as mayor and politician in Flemish Brabant, are called upon every day. That is the concern and that is the essence. That is not about the figures, because that was indeed discussed side by side.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u35	Madam President, I repeat, the questions must be addressed to the speaker! Otherwise, what is the point of agreeing in the Conference of Presidents? Of course, he gave his opinion by responding, but we won't get away with it if everyone starts to argue with everyone. He has been in the gallery for twenty minutes and he was only able to speak for six minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u36	Prime Minister, I see the match between N-VA and Open Vld, but you did not mention the main point of helping everyone. I agree with you on the extension of the social tariff. I do have a problem with it if the price of the social tariff also rises by 10%. That's not nothing, it's really bad for all those people. To help those people, the solution is to reduce VAT. I know you approved the VAT increase together at the time of the Michael administration. Mr Wollants was then enthusiastic about the increase in VAT to 21%. I do not know how you can explain it to the middle class today, saying that all these price increases are a disgrace when you enthusiastically approved that VAT increase three to four years ago. I can't explain that on the market. Prime Minister, can you give me an answer? Is it on the negotiating table? This is the measure you need to take. There really is a need for 6 % VAT on gas and electricity. Mr Francken has already asked that question. Can you answer them? Is this VAT reduction going to be on Vivaldi's table or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall continue with my speech. In this reform there is also special attention to the really strong shoulders. They don't contribute much or anything today. It's about big companies, multinationals and the digital giants. They symbolise those strong shoulders that do not carry their share of the burden. This will be done through international cooperation. It is also about the cheaters, those who fraudulently escape their contribution. The government has an ambitious anti-fraud plan to catch cheaters and make them contribute. That's a top priority for the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u38	The agreement is very clear, the questions must be put to the speaker. There have been questions to the Prime Minister, but a Member of Parliament, Mr Anseeeuw in particular, had asked you a question, Mr Vanbesien. I'm also curious about the answer. I will briefly repeat the question. It was not about energy, but about the Special Contribution Social Security which would be an additional profit of hundreds of euros for the middle class. Mr Anseuw asked you how you got that amount. We are talking here about the 2022 budget, and we do not see it in the figures immediately. How exactly did you arrive at that calculation? Madam President, perhaps Mr Vanbesien can answer that question before you give the floor to Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u39	I would like to speak on tax fraud. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u40	For me, we can continue to debate the issue of energy. But it is difficult to talk about tax fraud and energy at the same time, although money from the fight against tax fraud could be used... You say this government is fighting tax evasion. Should we remind you that the fight against fraud had been withdrawn from the priorities of the police and then formally handed it over? Is it worth reminding you that after the Pandora Papers, together with his European counterparts, the Minister of Finance has removed three countries from the European list of tax havens? Is it worth reminding you that only four FPS Finance officers are responsible for controlling 266 billion flows to tax havens? Is it worth reminding you that this government's agreement provides for a data mining on bank balances at the central contact point for September 2021 and that it has not yet been implemented? Why has this process of analysis not yet been implemented? This is a legitimate question. Indeed, under this government, the record on combating tax fraud is catastrophic. I would therefore like to ask you a concrete question. The government agreement provides that a data mining will be implemented in September 2021 on bank balances at the point of contact. That is not the case. Why? When will it become effective? In September 3021?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u41	Mr Vanbesien, I would like to return to the essence of the energy debate. For the budgetary negotiations, this government made a promise on the additional energy revenue. Hundreds of million euros of additional revenue are currently being earmarked on the basis of energy bills. All that revenue would be returned to the population. I quote, for example, the President of Vooruit: 'It seems to me that we are going to make extra money on consumers' hoods'. The figures were given by the Prime Minister, EUR 208 million and an additional EUR 26 million. That is, of course, only a fraction of the many hundreds of millions of euros that are being raised. So the promise to give everything back to the people was actually not kept. How do you account for that? Secondly, Mrs van der Straeten, during the budgetary negotiations in the studios of, among others, the VRT, announced that, as far as the extended social tariff is concerned, half a million Flemings, which had been enlarged since February of this year, will have a further extension in 2022. If we look at the Prime Minister's figures now, we can see that the extension of the social tariff will end on 31 March. The CREG says very clearly that high energy prices will certainly continue until the summer. Will you leave half a million Flemings in the cold with this government from April 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u42	Mr Loones, the discussion was not only about the special contribution, it was also about the different measures for the middle class. This is also about the reform of the energy bill, the increased deductibility of childcare and so on. Those are the measures that have been taken today. The debate on the major fiscal reform will follow in 2022, as I have already indicated. There too, there will be strong focus. It is then about the concrete figures. Instead of playing a well-known non-fiction game here, I suggest that you clarify this later in the thematic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u43	Mr Vanbesien, it may indeed be easy for the debate to conclude the current issue briefly. Then we can talk about energy again. I'll start another way. Mr De Croo, Mr Vanbesien, we know you in this way in committee, but your government has started with the announcement that a new style would be used, namely a style of respect and honesty to increase confidence in politics. You come here with the discourse that the middle class will receive several hundred euros. We asked a number of questions about this. I expected you to confess that you had failed, but you persist in your statement and argue that the whole package needs to be looked at. I'd like to take the whole package on the energy bill for the middle class. Mr Wollants has just spoken about it and it is about five euros. You are now referring to child benefit and that is one euro. The Special Contribution for Social Security amounts to EUR 150 million in 2022. That's 13 euros in total over a whole year. We are therefore already at 30 euros a year in total. Split up a month, the oharm is not yet about three euros. You are now coming up with a story that the middle class will get hundreds of euros. If you are part of a government that wants to increase confidence in politics, I expect you to admit honestly that you have spoken out, that you have spoken out in turn, that your words were simply incorrect and that the middle class will not receive hundreds of euros in 2022. After all, you know that you will get that statement back on your plate. In 2022 we will certainly make the reckoning. So, Mr Vanbesien, it would be a credit to you if you brought some honesty to the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u44	Mr Vanbesien, your answer to the question I have already asked twice is absurd.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u45	This is a budget debate and it is about the figures. I am asking for figures in a very specific way, because you have already said the word tax shift three times. I would simply ask you to give me the measures we need to find in the 2022 budget. That is what the debate is about. I don't want a well-nothing game like you don't want it. Hence my simple question, please give me the concrete measures in the 2022 budget which are part of the large tax shift you have already referred to three times. There are two possibilities. Either you do not take the third chance you have to answer that question and we can only conclude that you are talking out of your neck, which is not insignificant, or you give me a list of the concrete, quantified measures. A budget is essentially about the figures. I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u46	Mr Vanbesien, could you remind the colleagues of the N-VA, that I see here great advocates of the middle class and workers in this country, the most effective measure against rising prices and rising energy prices? What is the most effective measure? The indexation of wages, which we will maintain, and which you wish to stop. You want to stop this wage indexing system that protects workers as well as the middle class! Let's stop the hypocrisy! Mr Vanbesien, remind them that we are going to defend this measure when they want to abolish it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u47	It's important to dot the i. The N-VA is not in favour of an index jump, we are not suggesting that. You're insinuating that. It's kind of a crazy game because we have to ask the question. You will have 10 minutes to speak, but you are already asking a question because we have to follow the rules. It's getting silly, but I'd like to answer it. You're insinuating that the N-VA would suggest an index jump. That is not our proposal! We have done this in the past, but it is not on the table now. It would not be a good thing at the moment. I know the employers are asking, but we are not going to go along with that at the moment. We are a party that really takes the competitiveness of our companies into account, because we think that is important. Mr De Croo and Mr Vanbesien, I think it is important for everyone to maintain the balance for the middle class and ensure that on the one hand people can still pay for everything, but on the other hand we also remain competitive. That is a very difficult balance, an ideological balance, but the N-VA is trying to work as a party on both points. Now, at the moment, we are not proposing any index jump at all. You don't have to insinuate that. That's intellectually unfair. As far as childcare is concerned, Mr Vanbesien, you really can do better than that. It's about 1 euro. Should the Flemish government suggest such a thing, Green would burn us down in the Flemish Parliament here on the other side! And now you come here to say that you want to support the middle class, who has children in childcare, with a euro. A little serious, please, and a little intellectual honesty.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u48	That 1 euro is an increase of almost 10% of the amount it is today. That is, in fact, substantial in percentage terms. Mr Anseuw, I am sure that I have explained the measures in question. I will not continue the debate. I mentioned the measures that I believe are concerned with. We can't keep talking about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u49	I asked two questions. Hundreds of million euros are being drawn in. You only give back a fraction of that. How do you account for that? From 1 April, half a million families will be in the cold by extending the social tariff, while the CREG says that high energy prices will certainly last until summer. Will you put these families in the cold from April 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u50	The Prime Minister has just explained how many millions we will give back to the population in connection with the social tariff and the extension of the social tariff on energy. This is more than the extra revenue from the VAT that is extracted from the energy. The extension of the social tariff was decided until 31 March, to 1 million families and 2 million people. On April 1st, the social tariff system will not stop. That system will continue to exist. We started that expansion to help people during the corona crisis. Because of higher energy prices, it was decided in September to extend this to help people through the winter. This is certainly for the last quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year, because in winter there is the greatest energy consumption. The projections were also that the rise in prices would flatten. If that were to change, it will probably be discussed again. Today, however, that is the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u51	In short, because these things can be read in the budget, of course. For Q2, i.e. starting from 1 April, 32 million euros are foreseen to ensure that the so-called bill shock is not too big. It is therefore a budget which is a social tariff and which will in principle expire on 1 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u52	EUR 32 million is, of course, peanuts, so Mr Vanbesien's question is whether Green is putting the extension of the social tariff on the government table in the context of budgetary control. Will you be in favour of extending that extended social tariff from 1 April? Is that a demand from your party? That is a clear question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u53	These are hypothetical questions that I am not answering today, Mr Vermeersch. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude. I said earlier that an important part of this vivaldi project is for us the long term. Politicians are often accused of thinking only in the short term, and I understand that reproach. Every few years there are elections and there is a temptation to promise things to the voters here and now. But voters also ask for a long-term vision of politicians, they ask to look beyond what the nose is. If that is done, I am sure the voter will reward it. A crisis like the corona crisis forces us to think about the longer term. A problem such as climate change does so much more. That is why we are looking further ahead and making choices that are not always obvious for the short term, but which are the best choices for the long term. After all, not only do we conduct politics for tomorrow, but also for the day after tomorrow and every day after that. The long term starts today, by the way. It is today's efforts with an end that is well beyond the next elections. The long-term project that this government has put its finger on is the energy transition. It is a project with the horizon to have a 100 % renewable energy supply in the future. Clean energy from us and also the cheapest energy imaginable. We will not have achieved the objective of this vision tomorrow. It's a long road, but it's the right ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u54	I wanted to ask you some questions about tax evasion. Why is this government doing nothing about tax evasion? Why is Belgium the only country that still maintains bank secrecy? Why has not the only measure provided for in the government agreement on bank secrecy – that of making a datamining, a computer check on balances at the central point of contact – been carried out? Why do you maintain bank secrecy in Belgium? Why is the datamining, which was scheduled for September 2021, not yet effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u55	Mr Vanbesien, for your clarification, you said two or three times that the government is taking steps for 100% renewable energy. At the same time, the government mainly builds gas capacity. That's the idea. The renewable capacity that would be added is not for this legislature, if I am well informed. If you say that we are going to go to 100% renewable energy, how do you rhyme with gas plants which will continue to be supported until 2040 and which your Minister says is actually necessary to impose rules that they will decarbonise by 2050 at the latest? How do you rhyme with these two cases? There's something not right there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u56	Mr Van Hees, a minister has been ordered to fight fraud and he has drawn up a plan against fraud. He is updating that plan, which he will be coming to Parliament shortly. When it comes to the implementation and the timetable for implementing that plan, you must ask the Minister himself, because I have no control over that. Mr Wollants, I have just said that it is precisely about the fact that politicians must dare to look at measures that go beyond the next legislature. I'm talking about a long-term vision, about a horizon we want to go to. Your first reflex is to ask again what we will get from this legislature. That's exactly what I'm talking about. If one wants to look long-term, it is not just about today and tomorrow, but also about every day after that. To sum up the government's long-term vision, I would like to quote from the preface in the coalition agreement, written by the co-formers at the time. "The European Presidency in 2024 must become the organ of a whole series of deep, economic, social and environmental reforms that our country needs to modernise. By 2030, at the celebration of 200 years of Belgium, our country must stand as an example in Europe of economic dynamism, effective solidarity and sustainable development." I support that view and our group will therefore support the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u57	Mr Vanbesien, I can see your joy because you have been relieved of your speech, but I still have a question for you. In the period prior to the establishment of the purple-green government, we worked well together on a resolution on Zaventem airport. That resolution was adopted unanimously, and I am very proud of it, because unanimous approval is not easy in these polarized times. We have worked together because we come from the same constituency, because we know, together with Mrs Vindevoghel, how important our airport is and because the airport also has challenges, especially in terms of new energy, a different approach, decent and workable work. I think it's important to bet on that. Mr Vanbesien, how do you frame the introduction of a flight tax in the policy you are defending? In the debate on the declaration of government, the discussion was very painful, because Mr De Vriendt did not know what it was about. The measure was knocked off, but there was no amount attached, all of which had to be invented. Minister Van Peteghem was there at the time. Some talked about EUR 8 per ticket, Mr Bouchez talked about a maximum of EUR 2. In short, that was a cacophony. Now we have a view about it: the tax is 10 euros for distances within 500 kilometers, 2 euros for flights beyond 500 kilometers but within Europe, and 4 euros for flights outside Europe, for example to America. Dutch scientific research there exists that - however shows that such a tax does not involve a shift at all. According to your idea, flights must be assessed, because then people will take the train, or in some cases the car. However, the research shows that passengers take the car much more and not the train. This resulted in more CO2 emissions, more pollution due to the introduction of the flight tax in the Netherlands. There is therefore no greening at all; the measure does not fit into a sustainability agenda, it is no more or no less than a flat tax increase, which was confirmed by the mobility expert on this matter last weekend. How do you justify the cooperation and adoption of a resolution to give our airport the future opportunities needed in these corona times? When Prime Minister De Croo was Minister of Finance, the FPIM even put money on the table to keep the airport viable, to avoid bankruptcy in these corona times, because air traffic was just shut down. But now you choose such a measure! What's green about that? Could you show the vision behind that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u58	Mr Francken, it can be no surprise to you - this has also emerged in the discussion of your resolution - that it is important for us to have a modal shift in transport too. Air transport today is a child of concern in the light of climate neutrality and the CO2 free society that we are aiming for. Today, aviation is favoured in different ways compared to other modes of transport. There are no excise duties on kerosene. There is no VAT on tickets. I think it is very important - this has always been our view - that the indirect costs caused by aviation are internalised and that they come on the shoulders of those who cause them. The polluter pays. The measure is a first step in this direction. Of course, I am very much defending that mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u59	I can see the logic of what you're saying. One can agree or disagree on it, but there is a logic in it. As Mr Francken points out, the chances of a modal shift resulting from this are virtually non-existent. However, how will you finance the tax shift if people are actually going to fly less, because you have subscribed the proceeds to give the middle class hundreds of euros extra every year from next year? You know that's paid for, among other things, with the flight tax. Is it your intention that people will fly less and that you will have a problem financing the tax shift, or is it your intention that people will continue to fly? Then it's bullshit to say you're using a modal shift. It's one of both. You can't put them both in one story.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u60	Mr Vanbesien, I would like to go into more detail about what you are saying. It still has to be decided, because the dossier will be on the government table on Friday. The last Councils of Ministers are always very heavy. If you really mean it, I'd like to call you to provide a level playing field, including the airports of Charleroi and Liège. Those airports have no flights of less than 500 kilometres and within the EEA and are therefore spared. They only have to pay 2 euros, while the airport of Zaventem is being dealt with very heavily. However, Minister Gilkinet, the other Green Ministers and you too have always said that there are two problems at the airport. Firstly, the airport is not sustainable: there must be less noise from quieter and more economical devices. Secondly, there must be fair working conditions at the airport. These two elements are reflected in Parliament's resolution and are reflected in every hearing. Now, however, we see that the Walloon airports in particular are being spared. Moreover, the proposal now on the table ensures that low-cost carriers, such as Ryanair, do not or hardly have to pay. That's not fair. I think that's a problem. They should be taxed at least as heavily as Brussels Airlines, which is having a particularly difficult time. There should be an answer to that. That is the most important point. Take the matter fairly and treat Zaventem airport in the same way as the Walloon airports.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u61	Madam President, Mr De Roover, you have just told the same story about excise duties on tobacco. You say that the fees should be dissuasive and should not be entered in the general budget. After all, we want these taxes to be as low as possible. You have a point. At the same time, it is your party that has made the most noise about the great effect of greening commercial cars on excise duties on fuel. At that time, it was important for you that compensation should be paid for the general budget, whereas you now say that this cannot belong to the general budget. I understand your logic, but of course we have to make a prediction of future behavior. We're trying to control that behavior, but we're using the numbers according to that prediction. In reality it will then become clear to what extent that prediction is correct or not. Mr Francken, you yourself say that the proposal is still in preparation. So there's no decision yet. The Cabinets are still working on it. The proposal has yet to come to the government table and to be submitted to the Council of State. Then it comes to Parliament and so on. "It ain't about until the fat lady sings" and the fat lady are you, me and the 148 parliamentarians. The decision will be taken in Parliament. The discussion will continue in Parliament, where all the arguments will be put on the table. It is quite possible that you have other arguments and ideas, which can then be discussed and discussed. However, you are insinuating, also on the social media, that the measure is no longer of a steering nature because people will not change their behaviour. Then I do not think you can say that the Walloon airports are at a disadvantage compared to Brussels Airport, because if you do not think it will have any effect on people's behaviour, then it will also have no effect on the use of Walloon airports versus the use of Brussels Airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u62	You don't get it. My point is that everyone should pay the same. Do not give the impression that Walloon airports are being favoured. That hasn't been decided yet, but I'm just gonna give it to you. The Prime Minister will also follow up on this dossier, because he has a heart for aviation and has recently been to Brussels Airport. Mrs De Bleeker, as the competent Open Vld headpiece from Flemish Brabant, will also follow this up. Speaking of which, I'd like to make another appeal. I think that EUR 40 million - 30 million next year and 10 million after that - should be invested in better train connections to and from airports. Stick the money that this brings together. We do not see that in the budget now, which goes into the big black hole of the Belgian state budget. There is nothing like introducing a new tax that is very low, because that is in general the state budget. The best thing would be to color those resources and use them for a shift, to make sure that the train connections at Brussels Airport really get better. That is the big problem. Why do we have a competitive disadvantage compared to Paris and Amsterdam? From all over Europe you can simply travel with the HRT to those airports. This is the only way to encourage the idea of staying out of the plane and taking the train. I support that, too. I agree that it is necessary to take the train for journeys of less than 500 km, but it must be possible to go quickly and be efficient. If you want to take the train to Basel, you are on the road for eight hours. You can't do that. Use that EUR 40 million for something efficient, being better train connections. Then such a tax still has a logic. It's just a call.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u63	Madam President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, to begin this intervention on the budget debate and on the programme law, I wanted to point out that the present context is difficult, just as it was last year. The pandemic is, unfortunately, still present. We know that it will most likely settle for a long time, since we are facing a new variant - I am not teaching you anything. It is therefore important that we reflect on how we will be able to structurally co-exist with the virus and its variants, both in terms of support for health care and in terms of the organization of society as a whole: culture, events, horeca, sport inside and outside, our movements, our social contacts. We are going to have to rethink life in society in the light of this situation. Besides, yesterday morning, I was talking to a major player in the Brussels economy. He said, "We may have made a mistake in the last few months." His remark was of a general nature, not exclusively political. Indeed, every time he discussed with other entrepreneurs, they all thought that "when it would be better", that is, when the pandemic was in the past, they could embark on innovative projects, hire staff, redeploy economically, etc. However, he felt that this reasoning was not correct, given the circumstances. Rather, the question was how to create opportunities, given the current conditions, in order to redeploy economically, weave social ties, develop projects and discuss them in appropriate health facilities. His reflection seemed very relevant to me. I'm not going to give you all the details of my day yesterday, but in the continuation of my morning, I had an exchange with a hundred young people between the ages of 18 and 25 from the Citizen Platform. I wasn't the only colleague. Colleague Piedboeuf was also on teleconference. It was quite challenging to have this exchange with this hundred young people aged 18 to 25 who expressed real concerns, especially with regard to their future in view of this pandemic, climate disruption, social issues, environmental issues. This concerned their life course, their training. The citizen service is about a hundred young people who are engaged in social, environmental projects - with positive societal impact on farms -, in reception environments for refugees, in hospitals..., projects that have meaning, emancipatory projects. Almost all of the questions were about how they were going to get away with it. How am I gonna get through this? How will I be able to find decent housing, to have a life course that satisfies me, to support myself and those of a possible family that I could found? As politicians, what answers do you give me? They also wondered about their professional commitment. Today, this generation - and I find it super cool - wants to have a job, to emancipate itself but with meaning, with added value for society. It is our responsibility to all of us, politicians. This is the major issue in the years to come: to be able to answer these questions with speeches - speeches are important in politics and we make them today, all day and probably part of the night - but also with concrete acts that improve or give prospects to this youth, to take this example. It is also a question of giving prospects to the whole population, all of which, of course, are not playing on fears, without playing on the rejection of the other because, yes, there are parties today in the four corners of Europe, in our country, in this House, which have as their answer the rejection of the other, the rejection of everything that is different, the withdrawal on oneself, all populisms, the extreme right. These are obviously questions for this youth, and for us. One cannot fall into this ease by seeking solutions. We can't fall into this rejection. Why would you tell me this digression? When we talk about the budget, when we talk about the government agreement, the answers are there. The answers to these questions that I experienced yesterday morning and which I hope you too - I am convinced - live in your daily life as a political agent, they are found in the agreements of government. They are in the budgets that will be discussed and voted on today. Sometimes it's a bit technical, sometimes it's complex, sometimes media rendering isn't ideal to get our fellow citizens excited, but the answers are there. On a budgetary level, the impact of this pandemic is obviously massive for our public finances, but we must support precisely those who have seen their activities shut down, whose activities have been reduced and, above all, to prevent our fellow citizens from feeling more excluded, excluded from public policies, excluded from the road. For us, the budget that we will be discussing today addresses these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u64	Madam President, it's been a while since I raised my hand, but it's not a big deal. Mr Vanden Burre, at the beginning of your speech, you said that the covid pandemic was not over, that there may still be waves and that we will have to think about a strategy to learn to live with this virus. One of the tools in the fight against coronavirus is the availability of tests. Today, in Belgium, self-tests cost between 5 and 10 euros. It's expensive. The experts advise for the end-of-year parties to test each other before seeing his family. It's a hell of a budget if you have three, four kids, if the whole family has to get tested. It is therefore not very accessible in Belgium. The PTB, under various provisions, had already proposed that the public should have greater access to free self-tests. Yesterday, we presented a winter plan and proposed to distribute three free tests to each Belgian citizen. This is happening in other countries. If you go to the UK, for example, every citizen can go to the pharmacy and receive seven self-tests. I am very pleased to see that Mr Gilkinet announced last night that he fully supported this proposal by the PTB and that he was going to propose this to the Codeco tomorrow. I would also like to know your position on this. The specific question is that today this is not provided for in the budget or in the programme law. With the PTB, we submit an amendment to the program law to propose three free self-tests per week and per citizen. Will Ecolo support this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u65	Thank you, Mrs Merckx. Somewhere, you do some questions and answers. You yourself said that Deputy Prime Minister Ecolo Mr Gilkinet had proposed it as early as November. He therefore did not wait for the PTB. This has been proposed and will be discussed in Codeco. We are going to make this proposal to have self-tests on a euro. We obviously find this a good idea, otherwise our Deputy Prime Minister would not propose it. I think that is a fairly clear answer on the substance. This must indeed be done in the context of the Codeco discussions. You know as well as I do the number of political leaders present at these meetings. We will continue to propose and defend this idea, as Ecolo has done since November and not since last night. We'll talk. The policy is also to create a broad front when you have good ideas. A front with other partners, other officials, other levels of power. That's how we move things forward. I know that's not your conviction. Ours is that it is an alliance in society that moves things forward. We've had an idea since November. You found it yesterday and dropped it off. This is very good and I am not going to criticize the idea, but we will proceed as we have always done as ecologists, that is to say by creating links and fronts within society to move forward. That's how we'll work this time too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u66	You've been defending him since November. I didn't know that. However, I would like to remind you that the PTB tabled amendments in the Committee on Health more than a week ago and that the Ecolo-Groen party did not offer its support for our proposal. I hope that this amendment will be voted on. This is where this is decided in Parliament. We already have the Ecolos who support this proposal. GEMS is also talking about it a lot. I do not understand why this proposal would create political deadlock when it is relatively simple to implement. I also hope that you will not leave the Chamber when you vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u67	I have answered you as to the principle and the way in which the matter can be carried forward as well. I think I'm extremely clear. Our way of doing politics is very different – I welcome it – from yours. We, we move things forward and we get victories every year, which is quite different from your way of doing politics. In principle, we have not changed our mind since November. I would like to stress in my speech why this budget, in our view, allows us to respond to these emergencies and, above all, to support the whole population with a priority for the people most in difficulty, those who have the most trouble in society and all those who are on the bridge in the face of the crisis. The budget seems to be under control, respecting the 2024 trajectory, in the government agreement, of reducing the deficit. A budget is also a balance. This budget also maintains investment (over two billion euros), which is fundamental. Yes, a fiscal trajectory can be maintained without austerity, without cutting public service budgets and supporting people who stay at the edge of the road so as not to leave them there. Some notions are important to us. First, with regard to the welfare envelope, decisions were taken in April 2021 for a budget of EUR 800 million out of 2021 and 2022. It refers to an increase in social benefits and minimum pensions of 2%. I also come back – because, for us, it is essential in terms of social and fiscal justice – to the interprofessional agreement that came about last year thanks to this government. Since 2008, there had been no increase in the minimum wage. On April 1st, this increase will be 76.28 euros gross, to be precise This is a major step forward. When I hear here all those who say, "How are we going to help?", I think we need to see the whole of what is being done on the budget, the whole of the decisions taken at the last budgetary conclave, and that is what is important for us. With regard to health care and care providers, it is clear that the total number of caregivers is up to EUR 1 billion. Wage increase of EUR 500 million and additional staff commitment of EUR 400 million. But more needs to be done. And that, too, is what we want to say. We're a billion a year until 2024. So we are clearly going back to what has been done in disinvestments in the past, but we are really asking, as an Ecolo-Green group, to always do more, with a particular focus on the front line and on investments in the front line. In this regard, a budget of EUR 350 million was foreseen in 2022, in addition to EUR 250 million for 2021. That is for the nursing staff, who for us remain a priority for the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u68	Mr Vanden Burre, I think I'm dreaming! Indeed, you tell us that you do not have austerity and that you have a social agreement but, in fact, on both the issue of austerity and that of the social agreement, this government is going backwards. On the social agreement, I would remind you that the wage freeze on the basis of the 1996 law continues, with 0.4% more over two years, but if we remove the health index and the effect of the increase in fuel, we get to minus 0.7%. As a result, real wages are falling. On austerity, I would also remind you that this government has said that for the 2022 budget, a variable effort was added to the fixed effort of 2021. Therefore, austerity is added to austerity. Even in the rails, we see this austerity. Your Minister Gilkinet claims that there is an additional EUR 1.7 billion for rail, but the table provided by the Secretary of State for the Budget shows that this is less than EUR 62 million in the legislature. So even on the rail, which is the main sector that requires massive investments, even there it is austerity that is applied, with a decrease in the structural allocation. This means that, for the future, the resources allocated to rail will be even less important after this legislature. So I don't understand how you can talk about the end of austerity or social agreement. That's exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u69	Mr Van Hees, we have already had the debate on rail and SNCB in the Finance Committee. We also had it in plenary with Minister Gilkinet. We will still have it today and the minister will be there to answer your questions. I want us to have differences in society's vision. I don't want it to be enough. I'll hear it. That's democracy. But the false figures, the lies and the accusations against the minister that he would have given false figures, that's not right! I'll always insurgent myself against this way of doing things. The minister explained to you. He gave you the documents. I repeat: EUR 365 million through the European Recovery Plan for the period 2021-2024. The Boost plan, the transition plan: EUR 250 million for the period 2022-2024. SNCB's co-divided compensation in 2020: 589 million plus 78.3 million for Infrabel. We are already, just with the four figures I have just given, more than EUR 1.5 billion over the parliamentary term 2020-2024. Yes, what we do on the rail is a complete change in direction and paradigm! Maybe it's not enough for you, but it's never been seen in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u70	Mr. Vanden Burre, you're acting like Mr. Gilkinet, actually. You put forward the positive figures, and you don't look at the negative figures. You're doing the striped record. You always come with the same laius.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u71	You're the striped record! For 50 years, a striped record that doesn't get anything! Zero euro! That is the result of your policy! Stop! Give numbers! Let us have a democratic debate! But not like that. Really not like that!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u72	I'll take it back. You always come with the same laius.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u73	But you too! With false numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u74	All right. I'll take it back. You always come with the same laius. You have an advantage over Mr Gilkinet: you were in the Finance Committee and you were one of the recipients of the email that the Secretary of State sent with this table she provided. In fact, the billion and a half – your laius, which you repeat all the time – I couldn't find it in the picture. I found amounts, but overall, if we take the more and the less, we get a decrease, not an increase. What is crazy is that you, like Minister Gilkinet, come back every time with your laius, and you never come into confrontation with the budget table that the Secretary of State has very kindly requested. The fact that you weren't in discussion with this table shows you're wrong in your boots.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u75	Not at all. What year is the painting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u76	Why do you keep repeating yourself all the time? Why don't you face the budget table?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u77	What year is the painting for? I'm asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u78	On the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u79	About the year 2022. The rest, it is not decisions that are made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u80	You didn't look at him.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u81	No, I don't! The minister answered you. And it states that the Boost plan is not concerned. Is that true or not? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u82	Even by adding it...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u83	Yes. Actually, that's right. So, it's true. The half-billion-dollar Boost Plan is not in the table. It's in small print, right above it. Stop! This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u84	Even by adding your 250 million euros, we have this decrease. I've taken that into account. I added your 250 million euros and despite that, we're down by 62 million euros. And based on the figures in the table, we come to -600 million euros on the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u85	You forget the 700 million euros of covid compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u86	The fact that you never enter into a discussion about the table that the Secretary of State has given us is indicative of your difficulty (...). You can't get out of your laius. Why don't you talk about this table of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u87	There is no covid compensation of 700 million euros. The Boost plan isn't in either. This amounts to EUR 500 million. Adding up, we get to 1.2 billion euros. It is unfortunate to have to use fake news and accuse a deputy prime minister, which is not nothing. You may disagree. I've been in the opposition for four years, I know what it's like to be in strong disagreement with a policy. You can do your job by bringing proposals and arguments but not on the basis of lies or accusations. You say Minister Gilkinet is lying. This is unacceptable! You pour into populism!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u88	If you prefer, I can say he's not telling the truth instead of saying he's lying. It gives an additional 1.7 billion for rail, but when we look at the Secretary of State's table, there is no 1.7 billion more. We come to about 600 million euros less and after the corrections you mentioned, we reach 62 million less. I'm not going to go on because I see you're in trouble.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u89	What you're saying is not correct. It is a very populist way of doing politics, and I regret it. You do not have an argument, not a proposal: this is the new way of doing the PTB policy. I take note of this and regret it. I had hoped for a somewhat more constructive position as well as hearing you say that what we do for the rail is good, even if it may not be enough. Your attitude is below everything and I regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u90	I won't develop any more. Clearly, Mr Vanden Burre is not comfortable with the figures. Now, on the ground, railway unions and commuters' associations are sounding the alarm bell daily, and I am a commuter, I have noticed today that my train was cancelled to come to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u91	It's my fault!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u92	The station on the line I'm taking is closed now! The situation on the ground is also catastrophic. In a way, there is a correspondence between the shrinking budget and the catastrophic situation on the ground. Too bad, with a Minister Ecolo, we would have expected something else!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u93	I just mentioned the investment. It is fundamental to us. We are far from an austerity budget that reduces the means of the state or reduces support for people who are most in difficulty. A final element that is essential to us is the contribution of the widest shoulders as well. I'm thinking of professional players, expatriate status. Yes, with Vivaldi, we are starting a new reflection and redistribution in this country, to help those who are in difficulty, the low and medium wages by going to the widest shoulders, such as professional footballers, the tax on securities accounts. This is another vision, and it is a vision that we are proud to embody as ecologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u94	Madam President, I'm sorry, I thought I wasn't intervening anymore. But now, Mr. Vanden Burre, you're talking about the involvement of the widest shoulders. Who are these really the widest shoulders in our country? Twenty years ago, there was a billionaire family in Belgium. Today, there are 36. And what is their contribution to the tax on securities accounts? Zero euro! Why? Because they do not hold their wealth through securities accounts, but via nominal shares. There! If you really want to make the largest contribution, why don't you save those who are really the largest, those families that have fortunes that are worth hundreds of millions of euros or billions of euros, but that don't have securities accounts, but nominal values. Why are you saving them? I never understood that, and one day you would have to give that explanation!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u95	Mr Vanden Burre, I found the construction of your speech interesting. You say you meet many young people and entrepreneurs who do not want to sit still in corona times. They want to move forward and make plans and the government must be ready to support them. Well, we also meet these people, especially a lot of small entrepreneurs. Apparently we have somewhat different contacts, because in my case they always insist on one point, namely that they need people, that they are looking for workers. In my province of West Flanders, the employment rate has almost reached the Belgian target of 80%. They say they are looking for people, and you say in your speech that you have answers, which are in the government agreement and in the budget for 2022. You announce plans and proposals, but in fact, like your colleague Mr Van Besien just now, I can only hear you talk about spending money. We're going to spend extra money on this or that, we're going to support the socially weak and so on. All nice plans, but the people in the companies hear only one thing, namely extra expenses that they cannot afford because they have no people. You say there are plans, but we don't see them. If they already exist, they're not credible at all. The Court of Auditors has ruled on your budget. It says the payback effects of your activation policy are nougat balls. They don't believe that. Where are the solutions you are talking about, Mr Vanden Burre? Secondly, in addition to small entrepreneurs, I also meet large entrepreneurs, such as Decospan, who made the news last week with a large investment of EUR 30 million in Menen. That company stated that this is the very last big investment they make in this country, because this country and this administration simply cannot be trusted. There is a culture that makes entrepreneurship more and more difficult. You say that the answers are in the coalition agreement, but at least the big entrepreneurs have not seen them. Mr Vanden Burre, my point is that your government is holding back what we need in Flanders, what our Flemish entrepreneurs are asking and begging for. If you want to block and sabotage, not me, but do so in your constituency, do so in Wallonia. Let us do what we need, let us take the measures we can take ourselves. If you want to sabotage, do it in your own home.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u96	Mr Loones, the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs I meet in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia do not stand against each other. They do not mount workers against each other, whether they are Flemish, Walloon or Brusselsish. That's what you just did. This is not because in Flanders, in particular, but also in Brussels and Wallonia, there is a demand for so-called jobs in short supply. We're looking for workers and I can tell you that these entrepreneurs don't care if they live in Wallonia, Flanders or Brussels. It is this discourse that divides people, workers and workers. Stop with that! This is not the business world. That's what you just did. I heard you. I even listened. Frankly, stop with that! Yes, of course, we have to train. This is reflected in the government agreement. Five days of training per worker on an individual basis. It's in the government agreement. You're asking me what's in the government agreement. I'll answer you. With regard to aid for entrepreneurship in particular, in the 2021 and 2022 budget - and I am pleased to say so - support has been deployed in the context of the covid pandemic, of course, whether it is economic unemployment or the right to bridge (EUR 2.5 billion) to support the self-employed. Again, I am 100 per cent behind these decisions. To say that this government has done nothing for SMEs, self-employed and businesses in general, we must have lived in another world for two years, Mr Loones. I'm so sorry! You told me: "You are not doing anything for companies or for companies to fill vacancies!" Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u97	Activation. The Prime Minister will help you. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u98	I can answer that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u99	You are talking about the employment rate and activation. Look at the latest numbers that came out last week. For the very first time, more than 5 million people are working in our country. The activity rate is 71.4%. That's the highest level we've ever had. More than 70,000 people are working today than before the crisis. These are the results of the policy we have pursued. You question them, but the economic world has confidence in the policies we conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u100	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for the answer you did not give to my question and the Prime Minister did not in fact give either. Prime Minister, you always refer to a general figure. For once, name the problems as they are. There is indeed an activation problem in this country, not in Flanders, but in Wallonia and Brussels. But no, you come up with global numbers. When I talk to entrepreneurs, they ask: give me people and take measures that really trigger them. No one believes you on that point, Prime Minister. The Court of Auditors does not believe you, and even the European Commission has doubts when it assesses the recovery plan. Please, take action! Where's Mr. Dermagne's activation plan? Where are Mrs Lalieux's pension measures that could provide additional activation? If the Flemish Government is taking a measure to encourage community service, why is your Minister of Work's first reaction to ridicule and even almost criminalize that proposal? Is that the style of your government that would work together? Is that the style of your government, which would supposedly serve the needs of the Länder? Your Minister of Work has already taken a different tone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u101	Mr Loones, your question does not concern the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u102	Let me give you the employment figures. They're higher than they've ever been. I'll give you the activity rate here. It is higher than before this crisis, at a time when our economy is still in a difficult period, where measures are still in place and we are still facing a pandemic. There are 70,000 more people working today, and your answer to that is: I ignore that and I want to discuss measures. However, one of the things that stands out today is that employers are not afraid to create additional jobs, because they have confidence in the policies we conduct. And then you ask what we will do in the field of activation. I would very much like to take activation measures, and we have always said very clearly that we will work together with those who have all the instruments in their hands. I hope you know a little about the institutional structure of our country. Who is in charge today of direct measures to lead people to the vacancies that exist? These are the regional employment agencies, which is the regional employment minister. I'll be the first to work with them. You come here completely denying the sunlight by ignoring the good figures and saying that the regions should do nothing at all, that the federal level should do so. I thought you'd be in favour of regionalization, though, a little bit of knowing how our country is organized.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u103	Mr Loones, when you talk about activation policy, according to your political software and social vision, it means punishing and punishing again. That means index jump. This means limiting unemployment benefits over time. These are proposals that you have tabled here. I am thinking in particular of the proposal to limit unemployment benefits in the time you have tabled in the Committee on Social Affairs. That is your logic! As far as we are concerned, our logic is different: to train, train, train and pay workers properly. It is that we do by keeping the index, by increasing the wages, especially those of the workers whose wages are the lowest. This is a policy that encourages and creates. The results are here! All you have to do is look at the numbers! Economic redeployment in that country is a fact. But it's not by punishing people, which is your mantra, that we can do it. Let us assume our profound ideological difference in this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u104	Madam President, I have a number of factual corrections to make in the debate. Prime Minister, I hear you talking about the institutional structure of our country. It is true that activation is a competence of the regions. However, it is equally true that many keys to activation are still at the federal level. You know that very well, but it didn't fit in your booth earlier. We see that there are more people at work, but that is especially the case in Flanders. This is not due to federal policy either, but to federal policy. Flanders draws and drags on the cart of lifelong learning, of training and of closing the mismatch in the labour market between competences on the one hand and what is demanded in the labour market on the other. However, when Flanders asks, for example, for temporary unemployed to be obliged to register with the regional employment offices, the current federal government does not give at home. It's not thanks to the federal government that more people are going to work, that's happening despite the federal government. If it is true that the profits are not to be found in Flanders, where more people are working, you will explain why it seems necessary to give unemployed people a premium to work in the other part of the country. This is one of the plans for 2022 in the area of labour market policy. Let me give you an example. I come just like Mr Loones from West Flanders. People from Poland and France have been finding their way to our province for years to fill in bottleneck professions. However, the neighbours of Hainaut apparently need a premium to buy a GPS and find their way to West Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u106	I'm talking. How do you explain that? Mr Vanden Burre, the question I asked seems to be asking. However, I have one more question. How will you explain to a long-term unemployed person from Flanders who is working, for example at the airport of Zaventem, together with a long-term unemployed person from Wallonia, that the Walloon unemployed person will receive an extra contribution to work there when he does not get it? Mr Vanden Burre, how cozy will it be in the workplace with the activation policy of the current federal government? In my opinion, that will not be too pleasant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, we are frankly at the heart of the debate. The Hainaut, the Hainaut workers who would not "come" to work in Flanders are pointed out. To do this, you'd need a bonus. That's what you said. But that is not the reality today! Would the Walloons then all be lazy and not come to work in Flanders? There are French people. Recently, I visited two companies in Flemish Brabant: Colruyt and Zaventem Airport. Lots of bruxellois are working on it, and I'm looking forward to it. These come from all quarters of Brussels. Maybe that makes you less happy, but I'm glad! That is the reality of this country! Stop saying that the Walloons of Hainaut do not come to work in Flanders because they need more money! That's your analysis! What facts indicate that Hainaut workers come less to Flanders? What are the facts? There aren't any! What this government is proposing is to encourage people to go to work in another region? Why is this a problem? We encourage. We don't punish and we don't point a finger. But it bothers you. To me, encouraging is the solution. Puncing and discriminating is your political software. It's not mine! Madam Chair, I've been trying to leave the gallery three times, but I don't want to run away from the debate either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u108	You challenge us to all kinds of au bolt, you say. I'd really like to do that. You put things in our mouths all the time. You say Sander Loones says the employers turn Walen and Flemings against each other. You are insinuating that the N-VA is constantly playing the Community game. I really want all au bolt, that's no problem. Apparently, you went to Zaventem airport. That's very interesting. There are currently about 500 vacancies at the airport of Zaventem. That's true right now, in a very difficult time. Last week I paid a visit to TMS in Tienen. There's 150 vacancies there. In my municipality, just 30 kilometres from Brussels, there are currently about 100 vacancies at our large companies. I gave you an example last time and I can give you hundreds of examples, only from Flemish Brabant, near Brussels. Youth unemployment in Sint-Joost-ten-Node and Molenbeek is 30% to 40%. I am so happy when I meet someone in Zaventem, often coloured, who speaks to me in Dutch. I ask where this person is and if the answer is that they are from Molenbeek; Anderlecht or Brussels, then that makes me happy. That doesn't make us sad or angry about the N-VA. You shouldn't insinuate that because that doesn't make any sense. That's not how we're gonna be. The projects you cite which led the young people to work in Zaventem, young people from Molenbeek, from Anderlecht, from Sint-Joost-ten-Node, from Uccle and from Ganshoren, are projects initiated by Philippe Muyters as Flemish Minister of Work. These projects produce results, together with Actiris and the people of the Brussels government. We need to do something more like that. When you talk about all kinds of au bout, I simply do not understand why there are between 20,000 and 30,000 vacancies in Flemish Brabant, when there are so many young people in Brussels who do not come to work there. Go to the end [[?]] I'll all au bolt, there's too little activation. This is partly a Walloon, partly a Brussels, partly a federal and partly a Flemish competence. Projects like that in Zaventem, initiated by Philippe Muyters, need to be created much more. That is work for Hilde Crevits but also for the Brussels government. Mr Vanden Burre, education in schools is not enough. There is too little Dutch language knowledge among the young people in Brussels. They don't speak Dutch. That's the big problem of all au bolt. What did you do? You do not require Dutch in secondary education. I know that your party has finally put forward a proposal on this subject, but there is no agreement within the French Community Government. Make Dutch compulsory in secondary education and being with it in primary education or even in child care. Do that and start in Brussels For me, it can be done in Hainaut, in Liège, in Walloon Brabant, anywhere, but please start in Brussels. Make sure that our young people in Brussels learn to speak Dutch again, because they are as good of you as they are of me and of Mr Laaouej and others, and that they can come and work in Flemish Brabant. That's all our employers ask. There is nothing Community about that, that is the key. We have been waiting for this for 30 years and we have no solutions. How can we explain 40% of youth unemployment if there are 20,000 vacancies? There's no way to explain that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u109	Pour votre bonne information, à Bruxelles, le néerlandais est obligatoire dans l'eneignement dès la troisième primaire, for everyone. That is so!In Brussels!You said that was not the case, but that is the case in Brussels. Not in Wallonia, indeed. That is not mandatory and we, as Ecolo, want to make it compulsory. C'est vrai. On le soutient. On l'a toujours soutenu! Et on le soutient au sein du gouvernement de la Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles. But it's not just that, of course. Like me, you know that if there is youth unemployment in Brussels, and that is the case in all major cities. Take the figures of youth unemployment in Antwerp, it is too high. In Brussels too! I always want to do better, but we do not know, overnight, how to link young people looking for a job with a given vacant position. You always mention the Flemish Brabant, it's the same problem in the Walloon Brabant. The training of young people in Brussels has never been more dynamic. Actiris, which you quote, actually creates partnerships with the VDAB and the Forem to train these young people in jobs in need. I'm glad. Before the covid, I went to a whole series of training centres in Brussels where young people who were in difficulty or in stalls learn welder jobs, tile jobs that are in short supply and I am delighted! On the other hand, what I cannot stand - I say it very directly - is when one discriminates or makes differences between the Hainaut worker and the Brussels worker. I can't stand it! A worker is a worker. A worker is a worker and we can find solutions together (VDAB, Actiris, Forem)-, I have no problem with that. Let people learn as many languages as possible, heel welkom but let's stop dividing and punishing. That's the big difference for us, I think, with your speech. That's how it is! Let's do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u110	Mr Vanden Burre, the Prime Minister has left us. Hopefully only for a moment, because I wanted to explain to him the difference between the concepts of correlation and causality. It is not because two events occur together that the existence of this government and the increase in employment..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to that logic, the De Croo government would also be responsible for the omikron version of the coronavirus, because that too has come together. I will not accuse him of that, because I do know the difference between correlation and causality. Mr Vanden Burre, you say that you do not want division and so on. But the question of colleague Anseeeuw was precisely why the Flemish people from West Flanders who are going to work in Zaventem are treated differently than someone from Hainaut, so in that respect they were talking about a different use. I think that the punishment you are calling for against the insinuation that there is a problem of having French-speaking people, from Hainaut, for example, fill vacancies in West Flanders. You respond to that as if that was a complete offense, but if it is not true, then why the government's idea of giving a premium? What is the premium for if there is no problem? Isn't it because she was introduced because there's a problem? The idea behind it is to encourage employment across regional boundaries, isn't it? You deny the problem, but if the government takes those measures, I assume it does exist. So what will it be? If the problem doesn't exist, then cancel the premium. After all, what is it for?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u111	I had another question for the Ecolo-Green Group on another subject, in particular on Operation Takuba in Mali. After all, it seems that for the first time we are really going to a serious battlefield with Green and Ecolo in the government. I find that very remarkable. I read about Operation Takuba in this month's Shield Watch, the union magazine of the country's largest military union. So we are going to Mali with 100 to 200 soldiers, where we are going to participate in one of the most dangerous combat actions and operations in the world. We're out of Afghanistan, where we apparently haven't learned any lessons, and we're going to Mali now. I read briefly two passages: "Military, therefore, it will be an assignment as Belgium has not had much in recent decades. According to the French Ministère des Armées, Takuba's European partners accepted to fight in direct contact with the enemy and to fight shoulder to shoulder with the Malian troops. The chance of body bags is therefore real." That's what the president of the country's largest military union says. I will continue with a second brief quote: 'In other words, the political objectives, which are to stabilise the Sahel region and create the conditions for administrative and social reconstruction, are completely unrealistic in the military field. This mission is militaryly complete madness." The union itself states that she's completely insane. I will continue with the quote: "It is the chronicle of an announced failure." So my question is as follows. Does your group or your party support the mission and military mission in Mali? Should that not be the case, or should you indicate that there is still a need to talk about it and decide on it, why is EUR 12 million entered in the budget for this operation? If that is not yet decided, why is EUR 12 million registered? If you say that there is still time to decide on this and that the matter will be discussed in Parliament, do you support our amendment, to delete the EUR 12 million and to include it in the general defence budget? That would be more honest. After all, you're cheating. You're screwing around. You say that it is still being discussed and that the government still has to decide on it. The budget will be approved here on Thursday. Once the budget has been approved, Mrs Dedonder can work with the money and make preparations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u112	Mr Vanden Burrre, in your anger, you may have forgotten that I had asked a question on the widest shoulders that are exempt from taxation in our country. There is a tax on securities accounts. However, these billionaires do not have securities accounts. They don't own their wealth in securities accounts. I was asking you about this strangeness. Why don't you want to tax those billionaires? These are huge sums. There is really a huge base and a small tax on that huge base would bring in billions of euros. Why don't you just want to do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u113	I see that even when I am on my bench, I continue to seek the interest of colleagues – and I am delighted about that. Mr Franken, I will answer you with a few points. As you know, since we asked in committee, we are obviously in favour of a thorough analysis of the situation and of drawing all the conclusions and recommendations following the operation in Afghanistan. We have already said it and we have asked for it. There is no difficulty with that. Then, as you said yourself, for future operations, at this stage nothing is yet decided. For the rest of the operationalization, I would refer you to the minister who will be here just to answer you in detail and precisely. I repeat that no decision has been taken at this stage. Mr. Van Hees, I didn't forget you on purpose. It happened in the heat of action. I understand the exchanges that you and Mr Hedebouw have had with me and with Mr Vanbesien. If you think that one or more individuals who own a EUR 1 million securities account are not rich people, it is that between Ecolo-Groen and the PTB, the definition of "rich" is not the same. We estimate that when one has one million euros on a securities account, one is in the category of the widest shoulders. I realize that between communists and environmentalists, there is a difference in perception about this. It's quite surprising, but be it. I know it's not a pleasure to hear. Furthermore, this tax, as has always been said and as I said in committee, is a first step that we fully support. You voted against it, I remind you. That means something. As much as we can do more to get a contribution from those with the widest shoulders, as much as this tax on securities accounts is a first step that we fully support and that will bring about around 400 million euros in terms of tax justice. You voted against it. In terms of political lessons, this means that for the PTB, today, in your political action, even 400 million euros are not enough. Finally, your political record is zero in the fight for more tax justice. Even if it's a first step, for you, it's zero since your political action. And we're 400 million euros. Vivaldi: EUR 400 million. PTB: zero euro.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u114	I take note that once again you do not answer this fundamental question. Some millionaires will actually be taxed, but billionaires are not taxed! How do you justify this difference, the fact that the greatest fortunes of our country, the widest shoulders, pass unharmed with this tax? You can't justify it. You are trying to answer this by leaving the debate, but you are not answering this very simple question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u115	Mr Van Hees, I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure prohibit more than twice the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u116	Madam President, I would like to come back to this, because I think it is an interesting debate. I find it very interesting to discuss with Green and Ecolo because they stand for something and have a very clear vision. That vision is not mine, but at least you stand for something. You say that the government has not yet decided whether we are going to Mali, but there is EUR 12 million in the budget. If this is approved, then Parliament will give its approval. It won't be with my voice. You won't hear me say we should never do operations abroad. That's not my agenda, you know that, but I'm not stupid either. Going to Mali would be the biggest stupidity we could ever commit, especially now that we had to drop out of Afghanistan with the tail between our legs. My question is very specific. You're the leader of the group. Does your group, not your ministers, not the government, think that we should go to Mali in April? These preparations will then have to begin in January. Does your group think we should go to Mali? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u117	I answered you. Discussions are under way. We will not prejudge without having all the information. With regard to the concrete details, the minister is best placed to answer you. My political group has not yet taken a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u118	Mr Vanden Burre, allow me to briefly point out the difference. Just now it was about free or very cheap self-tests. Regardless of an agreement in the government, you said that the ecologists will defend it from their point of view at every meeting. When it comes to cheap self-tests, your party has a clear position. When it comes to our military, sent to a dangerous wasp nest abroad, your answer is: we do not know. I think that your group's position is a bit special.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of our exchanges, we seem to have forgotten one very important element: the seriousness of the health, economic, social and budgetary crisis that we are going through. In less than fifteen years, we have suffered two public finance crises – for different reasons – colossal: Lehman Brothers in 2008 and now the covid crisis. Our accounts are sealed. It took more than EUR 24 billion to cope with the costs caused by the covid crisis, when we were not yet able to recover from the subprime crisis. In this debate, we act as if it had not all existed. We are in a deep public finance crisis. If we want to have a fair-play debate, ignoring this element of factual context is a bias that means that we will not be able to discuss the issues we are facing calmly and intelligently. We did not do so at the time of Lehman Brothers, but we may be able to ask ourselves today about the state of our public finances in a dynamic rather than a static way. Can we still allow ourselves, in order to preserve our modern model of state, which provides a number of services to the population with a high degree of social protection, to maintain such a standard of well-being for the population if our compulsory levy system – taxation or para-fiscality – continues to rely on tax bases that are so dependent on the major macroeconomic indices? That's the question! Should we not seize the moment in which the world is confronted to reflect on another financing system, which is based both on bases less dependent on changes in the macroeconomic context and which take account of changes in the economic system? In the Finance Committee, we have had the debate on the digital economy on several occasions, with a new way of creating value. It is clear that it does not contribute to public finances and social security because of the difficulty of locating the creation of the wealth produced. If we do not do so today, we will still miss the opportunity to strengthen our public finance system, which will expose us again, to major risks of debt, social crisis and, above all, lack of capacity to ensure an economic recovery that will take place at the expense of our companies and also our workers. These are two elements of context that I wanted to refer to as an introduction. As I said earlier, the government has faced important issues that it has not chosen. By 2021, I was referring to the figure of more than EUR 24 billion to support sectors in difficulty, firms in difficulty, self-employed people, employees who, little or no, were affected by the crisis. It's not nothing! And we still don't know what the short- and medium-term prospects are. If there's someone to say when we get out of the health crisis, I think he'll take a risk that's impossible to assess today. Therefore, to show some modesty in this debate does not seem superfluous to me! It also means - and I am not resented - that, despite these difficulties, courageous measures have been taken. Let's not turn around the pot! The state had no money, it had to get into debt in order to be able to inject the bridge law, unemployment corona, support - let us also think at the regional level - direct premiums to certain sectors of economic, cultural, sports activity, cash facilities for enterprises, which leads to a short-term cost, since insufficient cash must be found in the financial markets. In short, the State has assumed its responsibilities in an extremely difficult context. Despite this, we have also tried, as far as possible, is this insufficient? Of course, and who can say otherwise? - in spite of everything, to support the disposable income of households by making painful choices, it is true. Why Painful Choices? Because, when one obviously targets a part of the population, depending on its income level, those who are beyond or because they belong to social categories of the BIM type, it is clear that those who find themselves a few euros above the threshold or who do not find themselves in these socio-economic categories, either perceive less or perceive nothing. These are painful choices, because money is scarce. And because money is scarce, it does not allow us to develop with the desired magnitude a redistribution, a support that could target a large part of the population, even though, nevertheless, we reach almost one million households helped with the measures taken, especially on the social energy tariff. As I said, we didn't choose the health crisis. Nor was the increase in energy prices chosen due to exogenous factors. I am thinking in particular of increasing demand, of tensions in energy markets, which are sometimes linked to geopolitical tensions. We don't choose. Indeed, increases in the price of energy are being collected. And while the state has already faced a whole series of dire needs of the population, from all categories, it is now facing another challenge. This feeds the debate on how to help households that are in difficulty in the face of rising energy prices. That is positive and I am pleased that we have this debate. We got him in the Finance Committee. We got it here. Everyone comes with his proposals. The government comes with the means that are made of the first arbitrations. There may be others coming later. All ideas are good to hear, be they direct interventions or tax reforms. All this is the subject of debate, but in an extremely difficult budgetary context, and I think it is important to be able to recognise it. We have also tried, with the government, to avoid a logic of brutal cuts in the large segments that make the framework of our state, the big departments... Madam President, I see that Mr. Van Hees wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u120	Mr. Van Hees does indeed want to ask a question. I recall that it had been agreed in the Conference of Presidents that the reasoning could be completed. I settle these debates in the same way for everyone. Mr Van Hees, you now have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u121	Mr Laaouej, with regard to household energy bills, I understand that the budgetary situation is difficult. I recall that this government has added a variable effort to the fixed effort that was planned for 2021. But I note that this government is doing virtually nothing for the vast majority of households facing an energy bill, which, for example, for gas is threefold today, as indicated in the press. What does it do in particular in terms of energy standards for the budget and energy consumption of households? It was calculated that the bill was reduced by EUR 8.76 per year. Even if we go from what is budgeted to EUR 156 million, that is only EUR 34 per household per year. These amounts are derisory. However, there is a simple solution that is 6% VAT on energy and you have tabled bills to that effect. Why does this government do nothing but take homeopathic measures? Why not take this measure - 6% VAT on energy - which is simple and efficient and which has a direct effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u122	We have held this debate very often. I am in favour of reducing taxes on consumption in general. VAT is one of them, let it be clear! But I can't find a majority to get it. It's a political fact. Mr Van Hees, how much is the budget cost of VAT on electricity and gas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u123	It's about a billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u124	No, it's more! I'm talking about gas and electricity. For me, it's a little more, about 1.2 billion at a minimum. Given the fiscal shortage we find ourselves in and given that the government's choice is to target a number of categories, the question is what categories will benefit from redistribution. You consider that 900,000 households will benefit from the widening of the social rate and the energy check, that is little. I consider that in public, economic and social finance policy, when targeting the most disadvantaged households, while money is scarce, politics is not bad, but rather a policy that sets priorities assumed. The question that I would like to ask you - to what extent you have been able to study this file which you obviously know well - concerns this billion or 1.2 billion - we will agree on the figures - is what is the overall distribution of the envelope, at macro-economic and macro-budgetary level, of EUR 1.2 billion between the first six deciles and the last four deciles of income? How does this $1.2 billion budget distribute? I imagine you studied the matter with your study department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u125	Mr Laaouej, I note that you answer a question with a question! It is clear that VAT is an apparently proportional tax, but in fact it is regressive, which leads to the fact that households with the lowest incomes are the most heavily affected by VAT, particularly on energy. It is therefore the lowest deciles that are most affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u126	We agree. VAT, like all taxes on consumption, weighs proportionally more heavily on small budgets than on high incomes, for a simple reason: from a certain point on, people no longer consume, they save. For this reason, the higher the income, the lower the share of income. In other words, it's an anti-distributive tax. And here I say to you: beware of confusion! This does not mean that in absolute terms the gain is higher for small incomes. In absolute terms, the gain is higher for high incomes than for low incomes. Because a high income has a high level of consumption, because it has a large house, because it has a whole series of things that work on electricity and gas. For him, the absolute gain will be greater than for a small household, which actually has, I would say, extremely difficult endings of months. On the other hand, on a macro-budgetary level, out of this billion or even 1.2 billion, what will be the share for the first six deciles and the share for the last four deciles? Now you're not answering the question. And that is why I am telling you that things must be clear; this debate which is fundamental... When a government has to deal with emergencies, with the need to finance bridge law, with coronary unemployment, with the need - both regionally and federally - to raise money to finance a stimulus plan, to allocate bonuses to the self-employed, to businesses, to the cultural sector, to the sports sector; there is a time, despite everything, when choices must be made. These choices are made. We track priorities and stick to them. But I note that you did not answer the question about the budgetary distribution of the billion or the 1.2 billion that would cost the reduction of VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u127	Madam President, there are two interesting points in Mr Laaouej's reasoning. The first is that, through your questions, you are trying to demonstrate that reducing VAT from 21 % to 6 % is a bad measure, because it would benefit more, from a budgetary point of view, from the top two deciles. We see, indeed, that out of the 1.2 billion, you will have the first two poorest deciles that will overconsumption, and you do have the last two deciles that will overconsume by their wealth. But the important question for us is that VAT is not redistributive. In fact, the PS tabled a bill when it was in opposition. And there, we have a usual rhetoric in the opposition. I have heard you plead fully for the reduction of VAT from 21 % to 6 %. At no time, at that time did you come with these liberal arguments, according to which the rich will benefit more. But once you're in the majority, your speech changes. There's a problem. Because if VAT is not redistributive... You are absolutely right to ask the question: but where should the money come from? You said, at some point, money is scarce. But that's not true! That's not true! In our country, money is not uncommon. Each year, there are between 5 and 6 000 new millionaires in euros. During the covid crisis, fortunes increased even more in Belgium than elsewhere. So there's plenty of money in Belgium. The question is if we're going to get him. Now you're not going to get him. I was thinking about the wealth tax. We have this debate on taxation and you're going to tell me again that it's because of the Chinese. It is because of the Chinese that we do nothing in this country! This has nothing to do with it! With the PS, VAT, it's because of the Chinese! We're hunting the unemployed, it's because of the Chinese! This rhetoric isn't right. You have to take your responsibilities to the PS. A tax on wealth is reasonable at the tax level but, above all, at the social level. That is why we will continue to put pressure on you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u128	The challenge is to have a rather serious debate with the PTB. I explain that VAT, like excise duties, taxes on consumption, are anti-redistributive. Why? Because they weigh individually, in a microeconomic way, more heavily on small incomes than on high incomes. This does not mean that when we reduce the VAT on electricity, the small income will take more than the high income. This is obviously the whole difficulty. You, you will agree to lower the VAT on electricity and gas, saying that the small income will receive 50 euros while the big income will receive 300 or 400. That's what's wrong with the PTB! You do not want to hear that the big income, with your proposal to reduce VAT, will have 400 to 500 euros while the small one will have 50 or 100 euros. We have tabled this proposal because we are accompanying it with other measures, including energy cheques. Let me explain. An energy check, when targeted at low and middle incomes, does not create a boon effect, a gift that high incomes do not need. That is the difference between you and us. You come with a proposal to reduce VAT on electricity so that it benefits low incomes. You are shown that a rich person will withdraw three or four times more from this measure. This does not mean that we must not do it, but that we must accompany it with energy checks that will benefit the low and the low incomes. That's what we're saying! Second thing. It's very interesting that you're telling me about the money that's scarce. I'm talking about public money and public finances. When a government is forced to borrow more than 20 billion euros to help the horeca sector, the self-employed and the unemployed in order to deal with an emergency, it clearly means that money is missing when we face the emergency. That does not mean that we must not go and look for him elsewhere. That's what the PS proposes. For example, we want to move forward on GAFAs, with Facebook, Google, etc. I'm thinking we could arrange auditions by inviting the PTB, because you're a great Facebook specialist. You spend your time feeding the caisses of Facebook that will hide its money in tax havens. I'll give you another example. I haven't heard much of you in the Uber case. When the Uber case came to the Brussels Region, I did not hear you denounce them when in 2019 and 2020, this multinational hid five billion profits in tax havens without paying any taxes, any social contributions. And now you've been ambiguous. At some point, we must be able to make clear choices, not electoralist and populist choices, because we want to please everyone. That is also the truth of the ambiguities of the PTB! For the rest, I don't have lessons to learn from PTB. That was said earlier. Since you have been here in the Federal Parliament, and even since you were created, what have you actually done to improve the situation of workers and pensioners? Apart from making blah-bla and great speeches, what have you brought in concretely to improve the lot of our fellow citizens, the people of this country? We, for the past year in Vivaldi, have increased the lowest social benefits. We have increased the lowest pensions. We have ensured that there is an expanded social tariff for responding to emergencies. That is what we did, as you spent your time in the gallery attacking the left parties. You attacked the Greens. You're attacking us. We can't hear you when it comes to taking on your responsibilities. When we come to you with concrete files, you spend your time in criticism, not in construction. Our country needs solutions and no problems. That is the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u129	I'm not going to be too long in this last line. What I wanted above all to demonstrate – and I felt the PS group uncomfortable – is that the PS group leader has been arguing for ten minutes against the VAT reduction from 21 % to 6 %, with a rhetoric that is known and that is to say, "We're for that but, in fact, we're not for it". It is this dialectic that prevents us from seeking social gains. Your group leader has been saying, for ten minutes, that you are against this VAT reduction with arguments that absolutely do not stand the way. These are exactly the right arguments that you put forward a year ago to claim this VAT reduction. I still hear it today: "We want it because it is fiscally and socially fair." It is this double discourse that provokes the ras-le-bol of the left-wing people. Uber, for example, will make everyone laugh. If a party is completely divided on Uber in Brussels, it is the PS. There is the PS of Ahmed Laaouej who is opposed to his minister-president, Rudi Vervoort. The whole country sees a PS being divided in Brussels on the question of Uber and you come to criticize the PTB, which is clear and clear about Uber! This is crazy! Do you really think this is going to work again? Intellectually? I just want to tell the PS comrades to use the power ratio. Earlier, I asked the Liberal Prime Minister because today, I did not speak only on the issue of environmentalists, the PS, etc. The right, the N-VA, the Open Vld, while they haven't even spoken yet, are being questioned. I would like to ask them about the change in VAT from 21 % to 6 %. A majority can be built around this reduction. If the Ecolos stopped their dogmatic refusal on this reduction, we could manage to put the Vilvaldi under pressure. Instead of shooting at us, use popular pressure to go get the VAT reduction from 21% to 6% and stop saying that this type of measure is antisocial! Intellectually, I do not understand how the PS can say white a year ago and black, with so much conviction, a year later. That's why people are sick of it! That's what we have to say!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u130	I'm not gonna let you end up on a lie! VAT, like excise duties, are anti-distributive taxes. The problem is that when you apply VAT and see what it gives for the household portfolio, the wealthiest people take away more, individually, than the poorest. This means that if you reform VAT downwards, you need compensation, and this compensation can only come from direct taxes, personal taxes. If you just cut VAT, leave a hole in the state funds and don't know how to finance your public services or social protections, you're driving the population down as a whole. And you don't even know how to finance a low- and middle-income energy check. You are in populism, caricature and simplification. And you spend your time attacking the PS, you spend your time attacking the left parties, you know why? Because, simply, your will is to create in this country a situation that is ungovernable, where left-wing parties no longer even have their place in the government! I prefer to go up to the ring and fight to get what we have obtained: the increase in the minimum pension, the increase in social benefits, an energy check, an enlarged social rate, that we can also inject money into the public services, rather than seeing you here in the gallery making reels without bringing anything, except dividing the left and weakening the workers' camp! This is the strategy of the PTB today! Finally, I would like to add that on the Uber issue, we were very alone at one point in the Brussels regional Parliament, when we defended the workers against the exploitation led by Uber. And when your regional deputies - whose names I will not mention here to be ungrateful, you have not had this elegance - are going to be beautiful with the Uberists with the simple aim of trying to glean some voices, while we say that we must stop raising workers against each other! And to those who, today, are in trouble because they no longer have enough to fill their game, because a multinational took everything from them! And you, during that time, for electoral reasons, you're going to do well with some to try to glean some voices, that's your double speech, and that's not the only file you've been exposed to!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u131	Madam President, for parliamentary annals, could the applause of the Liberal bench at the end of Mr Laaouej's speech when he claims that the PTB divides the left?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u132	That's great politics!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is always interesting to have left-wing votes debated. The PVDA says that the PS is not left enough, on which the PS says that they are not communists and applauds the Prime Minister. I've listened to what you're saying, but mostly to the PS. I am terribly sorry, Mr Hedebouw, but they are in the government and could develop plans that we can also feel in Flanders. That's what worries me. For you it's not left enough, for me it's always a little too left. Mr Laaouej, I noticed that you said 'Il faut qu'on saisisse le moment'. We must seize the moment, as you said when you spoke of the digitals, the fight against the great technology giants, whose revenue, moreover, is misrecorded in the budget. The European Commission has confirmed in Parliament that this money goes to Europe and not to your budget. You also talked about tax fraud, we know that discourse and said that we must work on un autre modèle de finance. I find that interesting. The digitals and the tax fraud are not enough. Additional measures are needed to work on un autre modèle de financement. What exactly is that about? What additional measures, which are not yet included in the coalition agreement, will you put on the government table? I wonder if the Prime Minister will still applaud, but we will see about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u134	Mr Loones, no, there is a government agreement and we remain loyal to this agreement. Let's be clear! And it is within the framework of this agreement that developments can take place and that we must be able to obtain them. Apart from that, the call I am making here in Parliament is to reflect on the current situation. Are we going from crisis to crisis, financial crisis, health crisis, taking the risk of weakening our modern state, because its compulsory levy system is, at this point, linked to bases that are themselves dependent on macroeconomic developments? This is the real subject! Secondly, as I said earlier – in fact, the PTB is a good example, since its members spend their time feeding a multinational, Facebook, which does not pay taxes – cannot be taken from the wealth that is produced by these big GAFAs (Google, Amazon, Facebook, etc.).Is it not possible to draw a minimum of wealth produced at home so that we can structurally finance our public finances, considering that the share of this new type of economy, the digital economy, is increasingly important? That's my thought! If we are not able in this respect even to deepen the debate, which also exists at European level, we risk missing a real opportunity to structurally refinance our State. This is the reflection that I am making, which I am proposing here and on which we can debate in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u135	Mr Hedebouw, I applauded my government partner. I applauded because it is a party that has understood that, in order to do politics, it is necessary to get around the table and overcome the caricatures. We must not hide in his ideological isolation and turn everything around into ridicule. That's the choice you make! I applaud the choice of the Socialist Party, which understands that if we want to change things in society, we must talk with others, we must not isolate ourselves but we must surround ourselves with partners. A party that behaves like this, I applaud it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u136	Prime Minister, that you are defending this sense of PS realism is not surprising because you want to lead your right-wing policy, a policy that is increasingly at the service of the rich. You increase VAT from 6% to 21% on gas and electricity. As Open Vld, you don't care about making people pay more and more. You don't care! This is the vision of a Liberal. I do believe that left-wing parties, in the opposition or in the majority, must be able to bring break points. The PS and Vooruit had put breaking points in order to get into your government by saying: "We will never go into a government with the Liberals until VAT is reduced by 21 % to 6 %." It was a breaking point, un point derupture. Now, you Liberals don't care about breaking points. What you're interested in is making voices, and then leading your right-wing policy. That's right! But for us, the left-wing parties are an important point. I see what I'm saying makes the Liberals nervous. Prime Minister, we will therefore continue to put pressure. The White Blouses Fund, the PTB went to pick him up. The Liberals screwed up our proposal. We were called populists, maximalists, Marxists - that, on the other hand, was right - etc. Do you remember? The White Blouses Fund, we went to pick it up, even before the covid crisis. We come with concrete proposals on the table, Prime Minister. You would do much better to listen to the people and not to rejoice at the fact that left-wing parties betray their principles because it will not do good to the people, to the left, or to the whole social movement in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u137	Mr Hedebouw, you have a little more in the report than the Prime Minister applauds: you can undoubtedly make beautiful films of the liberals' declaration of love to the Socialists of the PS. Mr Laaouej, you are reaching out to Parliament to think about public funding. You also seem to be insinuating that other sources of income must be used. I would like to know exactly what that will mean and whether you are open to change or not, although I do not think you will find that support with our group. More fundamentally, I would like to see the unfairness regarding the GAFA tax disappear from Parliament. I have made this point during various budget debates and every time it comes up again and now it is very flagrant. Mr Laaouej, you say that you will tax Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon extra and return the proceeds to the people through structural reductions. That simply cannot be done, Mr Laaouej. This has also been reaffirmed by the experts of the European Commission in the budgetary round. The proceeds of the GAFA tax are being used as a source of financing for the European Recovery Fund, the Dermine Fund, as he might like to call it. You don't get those pennies here in Belgium. You have entered 100 million in Mrs De Bleeker's budget for this purpose. That is a pure lie, which can never be realised, because those moneys must go to Europe. Please stop doing that. Stop saying here that by taxing Facebook, you could bring about a serious reform of the social security and financing model. That is simply not true in fact, not only because you will not be able to include these revenues in your own Belgian budget, but also because the revenues are largely insufficient. We are talking here about EUR 100 million on pension masses, social security masses, healthcare expenditure going into billions. And you're trying to pretend that that can be solved with a tax on Facebook. I'd like to believe it, but everyone knows it's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u138	Facebook must be mentioned because, on the other hand, it is a topic that regularly feeds our debates. But you have Google, Amazon, Ali Baba, Uber that we talked about earlier. This segment of the economy is becoming increasingly important and creates wealth and added value in Belgium. Then there is no euro contribution. I'm barely exaggerating. In addition, they arrange to evacuate their money into tax havens. If we cannot debate this in this Parliament to give impetus with extensions at European level, then we will never achieve it. You have a second problem that is very complicated. It also makes it uncomfortable in the world of work. It is this part of the wage bill that escapes the channels of redistribution, whether through social contributions, taxes, cafeteria plans, company cars, of which we talk all the time, and stocks-options. This gives you all the means of remuneration. Some of these systems are sampled, others not at all. This wage bill, which is increasingly large and is not in redistribution channels, is also a subject that we must be able to seize. If at some point we do not calmly reflect on this, we will miss the subject. I repeat: we must do this outside of any controversy, simply by trying to be a little constructive. For the rest, I will not escape the debate on the relations we have with each other, with democratic values.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u139	Madam President, we must conclude on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u140	I'll be able to come back later. I still have to answer the PTB. It's a little phrase. It is not only we who note the ambiguous report that the PTB has with democracy. It makes Mr. Hedebouw laugh that there are millions of Muslims who are now victims of persecution in China. It makes the PTB laugh that we lock up children, that we sterilize women. It makes you laugh, but I don't! On the other hand, I saw a Walloon union leader, Jean-François Tamellini, speaking in L'Écho, not so long ago. I quote: "On the democratic aspects of the PTB, I ask myself questions". In other words, there are today in the trade union world, in the FGTB in particular, people who open their eyes to what you are. You do not defend the interests of the most disadvantaged social classes, you are a party that has a logic of power and wants to domesticate the trade union forces in particular. Even in trade unions, when we disagree with you, we are banished! Many union delegates tell us how tired they are of you and your methods because you do not work in the interests of disadvantaged social classes and workers! You work with the sole concern of having power, with ambiguities on democratic values, as Jean-François Tamellini had the courage to say. That's the truth, and that's what bothers you, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u141	I expected everything but not a criticism from the PS that we would be a party of power. If there is a party that, for forty years, believed that it had the monopoly of power no matter what, it is still the PS. To come back to the issue of union organizations, I have heard a lot of the union delegates' wish that the government stop interfering with the wage negotiations that they themselves are conducting on the ground. This criticism goes back to every corner of the country: ABVV, ACV, CSC, FGTB. You can ask all union delegates, even the Liberals, what they think of the decision of Vivaldi and the PS, via Minister Dermagne, to vote a law that blocks wages at 0.4%: that is disgust! Why? Because you're holding on to the social struggle. This is indeed a change for trade union organisations: for the first time in twenty years, there is finally a party in Parliament that breaks this little bubble of "without us, it would be worse"! For 25 years, you have been able to say, "It would be worse to drive out the unemployed without us!" We need the 1996 law, which you voted with Mr Dehaene: "Zonder ons zou het erger zijn geweest". "You have to, you have to, you have to..." For the first time, and we will continue to do so, comrades, we will continue to do so: this type of anti-social law that breaks the union dynamics, we do not want it. We disagree. Count on the PTB in the next 15, 20 years, we will continue to insist on this: let union delegates freely negotiate wages, but stop breaking any form of wage bargaining in companies and sectors!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u142	So does Mr Laaouej. This was done more successfully on stage last time, and I was delighted to encourage the speaker. Et encore, encore! We'll see it over and over again. Anyway, let me return to the serious point, the budget, especially the digitals. Should the big digital players be addressed? Yes. My first piece of opinion on this issue, I've just looked it up from 2018. N-VA has been asking for years to tax the tech giants in a fair way, as it does with all other companies. If they pay a little more taxes, our small entrepreneurs might be able to pay a little less taxes. But that's not the point. The point is what will happen to the proceeds of the digitals. Every budget debate I have to talk about, and I hope it will be the last time. You repeat, Mr Laaouej, that you will tax the big players and return the proceeds to the people and that you will reduce the wage burden. It just can't be! The European Commission has reaffirmed here in Parliament that the proceeds of a digitaks will be used to finance the European corona fund. The proceeds will therefore go to the European budget, not to the national budget. I want that off the table at last. Madam President, you will have to forgive me, but I would like to make it very specific with a question to Mrs De Bleeker. The federal government's multi-annual budget for 2023-2024 contains a EUR 100 million proceeds for the Belgian budget from the digitals, whereas the European Commission prohibits it from doing so. She says that those moneys are for Europe, not for us. It would help us to have the honesty of the debate, Mrs De Bleeker, if you take those amounts out of it, if you don't keep up appearances, if you stop preaching to the European Commission. You should budget correctly and confirm to everyone here that the GAFA tax is a good idea, but that these money is not for the Belgian budget. I am not saying that, the European Commission says that. I would like to invite you to confirm this here once and for all and to take these amounts out of the Belgian multiannual budget as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u143	Madam President, I would like to speak for a moment about Digitax. I'm really glad Mr. Laaouej says it's the greatest good. Indeed, as you know, three years ago a text was tabled on the table at the Belgian level. We could have earned three years in terms of revenue. The proposal for a law that we have tabled concerns the application of an interim fee pending an international or European regulation on the matter. So I'm sorry we lost three years. According to the estimate made, a Belgian tax would have raised 100 million, an amount that would have been necessary to carry out policies. At the time, the question did not arise as to whether this should be part of a European package or a national package. It is now important that this measure be implemented. Indeed, you have denounced all the injustice that exists with companies that pay little or no tax in Europe and that are reaping huge profits, profits that have inflated again with the covid crisis. I would like them to be examined when we table texts such as the one on joint and several liability for the payment of VAT on digital platforms. There is not only the tax that we are discussing here, there is also the huge VAT fraud that these platforms are engaging in, while entrepreneurs, national independents are not in a position to do so, which is a good thing. When we table texts in the Finance Committee, if the PS and other parties want more tax justice for these big companies, it would be nice for them to try to analyse them in the open. I assume and hope that it is not because a bill is introduced by the opposition that it is bad, and that the goal is to achieve something more just. Whether it comes from the opposition or the majority, I guess it doesn't matter to you. We still have a series of other texts and we will also have them when we get back to you on items that you often come back to, about which I think you are right, but for which we will propose something to you: is it normal for political parties to spend astronomical sums in sponsoring for publications of companies which, moreover, do not pay their taxes? In general terms, with regard to the ethics and control of algorithms – I have tabled a text on the control of algorithms in public administrations, and I am used to saying that we must sweep before we impose other things on the private – we should all, as political parties, have a discussion on this, not to prevent or prohibit, because my party is not a party of prohibition, but to regulate. It seems to me very important that we discuss this in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u144	Madam President, Mr Loones has asked me a direct question about where this tax might be registered and whether it is correct that we have entered it in the Belgian budget. In the budget presentation 2021, it was clearly stated in the notifications that if no international agreement was found on such a tax, albeit in the lap of the OECD or the European Union, a Belgian digitaks would be looked at by 2023. That's how we registered it. If it becomes a European project, the proceeds of the digitalaks will be transferred to the European authorities, but Belgium's contribution to these bodies will also have to be reduced. This can perfectly be included in the multiannual budget. If a full plan were to come into force in Europe in 2023, we would indeed amend it. At the moment, it is correct as it is currently included in the Belgian budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u145	Madam President, I also have a question for Mr Laaouej. An important budget debate, which is not included in the coalition agreement, is what is happening in the European Union about the revision of the European budgetary rules. PS Secretary of State Dermine has taken a clear public position on this matter. He wants to expand and use the European Recovery Fund to invest as much as EUR 5,000 billion in the climate. The PS wants not only new European debts but also new European taxes. If we can believe the press, Dermine has been flogged back by the Prime Minister. In the newspaper De Tijd, we read that, in the context of the debate on this revision, Minister Van Peteghem, who is responsible for this and who is speaking in the Eurogroup, will argue in favour of maintaining Maastricht standards with an exception for green investment. When I question Minister Van Peteghem about that, he dances around the hot stuff. That is why I would like to ask you: is it true that the PS proposal for new European taxes and new European debts for climate objectives has been underestimated by the government as unfeasible? Is it true that Minister Van Peteghem, on behalf of your government in the Eurogroup, is advocating the maintenance of these European budgetary standards, the Maastricht standards and not the PS proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u146	I want to thank the Secretary of State for the answer. I would also like to call on my fellow Members not to be rich anymore and not to include sums intended for others in their own budget plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u147	Madam President, I would like to try to re-globalize a little and to do justice to the person I have quoted, quoting it completely, for the annals and for the record. What I'm telling you is that the transformation of the economic system is massive. If we do not take the measure, the modern state, the welfare, the welfare state - you call it as you want - will collapse; because the basic principle has always been to be able to capture part of the wealth produced, more or less large, depending on the state of redistribution, the level of development of the countries, the political choices that are made, etc. But the more we let things go this way, the more we will find ourselves in a moment of fragility whenever we experience an economic shock, whether it is due to a financial crisis or a health crisis. I'm not saying anything else. I am not telling you that the additional funding we may have should be used to replace others. Why not? I think we could cut taxes on consumption massively, for example, because they are anti-redistributive. We could also, with this, finance an economic policy of public investment, which could be as good for our companies, but also for the economy in general, the world of work. We could also finance development cooperation. Perhaps this would allow us to address some North-South imbalances that are the source of other difficulties. In short, the debate on what we are going to do with these new means is another debate. But at least let's have a debate about how our economy is changing and how we are dealing with it. I'm not saying anything else at this point. I proposed this as an introduction to my presentation, but obviously I stayed there. I couldn't develop anything else and I have two minutes left. I'm not saying anything but that. On the other hand, on tax policy, I repeat, when public money is scarce and we are faced with emergencies, we must also be able to integrate the macroeconomic consequences of what we do. There are measures that, when they are taken, and when they are well targeted, have a return to employment, to household disposable income and to growth, more interesting than others. I give an example. If you increase family allowances, there is a return effect of 0.4. If you lower the VAT on energy, there is a return effect of 0.2. This does not mean that economic and fiscal policy must be dictated by this, but in times of crisis when the economy must be revived with public money, it must also be possible to take account of it. Finally, I quoted a Walloon trade union leader and I would not betray his words. For the Annals, it's important, when you quote someone you have to do it right. I will therefore read it correctly this time: "If the vision of some is to say that there is no need for trade unions, unless it is the party union – understand the PTB – it poses a fundamental democratic problem to me. On the other hand, we'll need parties to make a difference. To do this, we must take responsibility and go to power." It was Jean-François Tamellini, president of the Walloon FGTB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-21-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip149x.u148	We will suspend our work, the time to hold our Bureau meeting and the Conference of Presidents. The sitting is closed. Next sitting Tuesday 21 December 2021 at 2 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, December 21, 2021 at 2 p.m.
