ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, I welcome you to this new year and give you my best wishes. I hope for fruitful cooperation in our Committee on Home Affairs. The agenda today has quite a few questions addressed to you. We will try to speed things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u2	I too would like to express my best wishes to the President, the Secretary of State and colleagues. Mr Secretary of State, as time is running out, I will get straight to the point. We have discussed the planned asylum centre in Bilzen several times. Since the opening of that centre is still a real option for you, I have some questions for you, which I will give you immediately. Firstly, as a result of the arson in the building that was intended as a temporary asylum centre, the lease agreement between the owner of the property and the Red Cross Flanders was suspended. That's what your predecessor told me. Mr Secretary of State, is that agreement still suspended today? When does the agreement date? Has a new agreement been concluded since then? Secondly, in addition to the lease agreement, there is a framework agreement between Fedasil and the Red Cross Flanders with a view to receiving asylum seekers. That agreement provided for the creation of a buffer center with 140 places, with us in Bilzen. Is the centre still part of the framework agreement today? Finally, I would like to repeat a previous question. On 9 December, two suspects were apprehended as part of the arson investigation. In view of this new development, do you think it is appropriate to ask Fedasil to submit a request for access to the criminal record?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u3	Mr President, thank you for the New Year's wishes. As far as I am concerned, too, I wish you and the other committee members a happy New Year. We'll make it a great year. I feel that already, however, on the basis of the number of questions tabled. Mr Raskin, I too would like to thank you for your New Year's wishes and wish you a happy New Year. Mr Raskin, your question comes back weekly, which is not illogical, since it is an important dossier. In any case, it is a good thing that the public prosecutor continues to follow up on the issue. The initial arrangements were to start the reception centre in Bilzen on 15 December 2019. The first residents would normally arrive on that date. However, the arson has led to other plans. The agreement between the Red Cross and its owners has since been suspended. In order to decide whether a reception centre can be started there, it is awaiting an analysis of the owner. That's what I answered last time. As Secretary of State, I have an opinion and have to make decisions in many cases, but the opinion and decision of the owner is even more important in this case than that of the Secretary of State. It is now up to the owner to determine whether he will renovate the property, taking into account its cost in relation to the rental price of Fedasil. The owner must therefore, as I said earlier, analyse the cost picture. I would have liked to give you more clarity, but I don't decide what the owner of the property does. I can only hope that there will be a quick conclusion and that the work of the parquet can be completed quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u4	Of course I am aware of the initial intention. You're giving some explanation about the rental agreement between the owner and the Red Cross, which was suspended. I'm not sure how to interpret your explanation. Of course, you can't decide what the owner does. Do I correctly conclude that the lease is still suspended today? You may or may not be able to confirm that in a moment. You did not answer my question about the framework agreement between Fedasil and the Red Cross, which is not directly related to the owner. Nor have I received any reply to my question on the consideration of submitting a request for access to the criminal record. I respect, as before, your answers, whatever they are. But it is not such a good start of the year to establish that I do not get an answer to two of my three questions. Did I correctly understand that the lease is still suspended? In what way or to whom should I turn, if you do not answer, to get an answer to my second and third questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u5	Some of the questions asked were already put at the previous committee meeting. There was an answer to that at the time. The only addition I can give is that I can only give more information about the future of the asylum centre when the owner becomes more clear. I had already provided the clarity I needed to provide in the previous sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u6	It is not because I get an answer, that as a Member of Parliament I cannot ask any further questions about it, if new facts arise and if some new situation arises. So I take note that a government that would do otherwise simply does not answer questions I ask after new facts. I am very sorry about that. I would have expected that from cynical, old politicians, but not from you, Mr Mahdi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u7	Mr President, I too would like to express my best wishes to everyone. I can be brief about my question, because I already put it to you in November, Mr Secretary of State. Newspaper articles showed that hotel reception for asylum seekers was organised in the Canary Islands. You said that you had asked for a meeting with your Spanish colleague on 15 November and that you were planning consultations with the Moroccan ambassador. Before that, I thought you referred to November 24th. In the meantime, we have also discussed it in plenary, and you said that the discussion would have taken place at the beginning of December, if I understood correctly. How did the talks with Spain and Morocco go and what are the concrete results, for example with regard to Morocco? Was there any talk about readmission agreements or, in this particular case, about readmissions? Did you call for action at European level? Then what did that lead to? Maybe the most important thing: was the hotel shelter stopped immediately? Did you insist on that in both conversations? Do you agree that this has a huge suction effect that had to be stopped immediately, which has probably happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u8	Mr President, I too would like to express my best wishes to all my fellow Members and certainly to you, Mr Secretary of State. I have two brief follow-up questions to the questions I have already put on this subject in committee and in plenary. The first question is also about the Canary Islands, where more than 20,000 illegal migrants arrived last year. That's ten times more than in 2019. Every day new boats depart towards that Spanish island group. On 26 November, after my intervention in plenary session, you left a message on Twitter that day, in which you stated that you would be working on a panic campaign and in which you literally said: "Through this dangerous route there is no future in the EU and therefore no future in Belgium." It goes without saying that a clear signal to illegal migrants that they will not be allowed to stay in Europe if they enter our continent illegally will result in a drastic reduction in illegal migration and, therefore, a drastic reduction in the number of deaths at sea, which can only be welcomed. In this context, I would like answers to a few questions. First of all... What does this derailment campaign look like in concrete terms? What steps have been taken to this end? Can you clarify exactly what you mean by the quoted sentence in your tweet, 'Through this dangerous route there is no future in the EU and therefore not in Belgium'? Do you mean that you will automatically refuse asylum to immigrants who cross the Canary Islands illegally and that you will actually return them? If so, was this discussed at EU level with your colleagues? Finally, will this approach apply to other illegal migration routes? I come to my second follow-up question. As has already been said in my previous question, the number of illegal migrants arriving in the Canary Islands has increased by more than ten in the last year. According to the German daily Die Welt, officials in Brussels also assume that the influx will increase much further. It is no secret that many illegal immigrants who land on Spanish soil continue northwards, including to Belgium. For example, the European Commission's analysis shows that since 2018 there has been a large gap between the number of illegal entry detected through the Spanish land and sea borders and the number of asylum applications. That is particularly true of Moroccans. This analysis was recently confirmed by the chairman of the German police union DPoIG. He said he was aware that the number of asylum seekers travelling illegally across the French border is increasing. As a result of my current question on 26 November, you said that you were counting on the countries of origin, including, of course, Morocco, to assume their responsibility towards their own nationals, and that Spain would also fulfil its obligations. You already had contact with the Moroccan Ambassador on this matter, and you also said that you would contact your Spanish colleague and the Spanish Ambassador again. I would like an answer to the next five questions. Firstly, have you talked to the Moroccan Ambassador about the suspicion that some local Moroccan authorities are making earlier efforts and are not doing much to curb illegal migration to the Canary Islands? Secondly, have you also consulted with the Ambassador on the readmission of illegal nationals? If so, what concrete commitments were made in this respect? Respond very concretely, please. Thirdly, have you already had contact with your Spanish colleague, as well as with the Spanish ambassador? Were concrete commitments made during this consultation aimed at restricting the illegal transit of migrants from Spain? If so, what are these commitments in concrete terms? Fourthly, do you know whether the Spanish Government has been promised by Morocco to stop the illegal influx into the Canary Islands, as well as the repatriation of illegal nationals? If so, what are the commitments? Fifthly, have you also discussed the problem of illegal transit from Spain with your French colleague or with the French ambassador? If so, is France prepared to combat this phenomenon? What measures have been envisaged in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u9	Mr President, I wish you all the best at the beginning of this year. I would also like to introduce them to all our colleagues in the Committee on the Interior and, of course, to our Secretary of State, to whom I address the following questions. Mr Secretary of State, there is much to be said about the very difficult situation at the EU's external borders for many months now. It is a little less echoed by the situation in southern Spain. Indeed, an influx of migrants seems to have increased considerably in recent weeks. At the beginning of November, a record was reportedly exceeded in comparison with the significant historical arrivals of 2006 in the Canary Islands. According to some sources, about 13,700 people had joined the Spanish islands between January and November 2020. According to some media reports, 8,000 migrants landed on the islands of Gran Canaria during the single month of November. For the record, there were less than 2,000 in the previous year over the same period. It is therefore no coincidence that, at the last Italian-Spanish summit, the authorities of these countries called for a new, concerted and clearer European policy. This is also no coincidence, given the measures taken in the south-east of the Union and the agreements with Turkey, Morocco and Libya. The cause and effect link is, in fact, easily established between these two situations. Could you, then, give us a concrete indication of Belgium's position in controlling the situation at European doors and, of course, the decisions taken at European level? What specific measures are currently being discussed to address these difficulties at the European borders in Spain? There is talk of European funds of the order of EUR 84 million. Could you specify the source of these amounts? Has specific financial support been made available at the end of 2020? In concrete terms, what decisions are taken to support the Spanish in terms of security and logistics, in particular through a reinforcement of Frontex? What are Frontex's capabilities at European borders in Spain? What initiatives have been taken at Belgian level with regard to the European Union and the Commission to help Spain?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I have been following the situation in Gran Canaria for a long time. I have already had a number of questions about this in this committee and in the plenary. I have already been asked whether I have contacted Spain. That happened very quickly. On 3 December there was a good conversation with the Spanish ambassador, in which it was mainly assured that there would be no permanent reception structures in Gran Canaria. I think that is a good thing because otherwise this would create a suction effect. In addition, the individual rights of migrants are respected, which is also important. I think that most of the Members who have asked these questions have seen the news of the past few days. Only yesterday, three people drowned on their way to Gran Canaria. Those are human dramas. Spain systematically registers everyone arriving at Gran Canaria and also takes away their fingerprints. That was also guaranteed to me during that good consultation. An infrastructure was also set up to facilitate police identification in the course of the individual procedure. Spain will receive financial and material assistance from the European Commission and relevant UN organisations. I am also referring to Frontex, as Mr Pivin has already correctly stated. The door to the mainland will not be opened. They are only about a hundred vulnerable people who are being taken care of in Madrid and Barcelona. Anyone who entered the EU through Gran Canaria and subsequently applied for asylum in Belgium can of course be returned to Spain on the basis of the Dublin Regulation. After that discussion, I sent a constructive letter, and I also received one back, to the Spanish Minister for the Interior with some additional information. The Minister states that it is Spain's priority to work with the main countries of origin and transit, including Morocco, Senegal and Mauritania, to stop exodus and resume return. Spain concluded an agreement in December with the IOM, the International Organization for Migration, with Morocco and Algeria, facilitating the voluntary return of migrants. Given the COOVID-19 restrictions in North African countries, this is not evident at the moment. I have therefore proposed to my Spanish colleague to cooperate on the return of people arriving in the Canary Islands, in accordance with the principles that should apply at European level with the new EU Migration Pact and the return sponsorship. If we have trouble sending back certain people and Spain, too, and if Spain has profiles that can be sent back more easily and if we have other profiles, then we can strengthen the return at European level by establishing cooperation between Spain and Belgium. The return stop for the sake of COVID-19 was addressed to the Moroccan ambassador. There has been that conversation and that point has therefore been raised. I have also made it clear that it is important to be able to restart that return. Since 20 March 2020, Morocco has invoked the medical emergency situation linked to COVID-19 and has extended it until at least 10 January 2021. Meanwhile, vaccination is taking place in many countries, including Morocco. I therefore assume that, in the short term, there should again be the possibility of sending people back. It is not illogical that return flights could continue again. I have already had contacts with the Moroccan ambassador on this matter. I will contact you again in the short term to see how we can make progress in the short term. France is currently experiencing similar problems as Belgium with regard to its return to Maghreb countries. In this respect, the conversation with the French ambassador was also very interesting. It was not so much focused on Gran Canaria, but rather on the way in which France strengthens its ties with North African countries. The problem of transit migration in particular has been raised. Mr Van Langenhove, you have also asked me to explain my tweet. As I have pointed out on several occasions, the situation in the Canary Islands demonstrates the failure of the current European asylum and migration policy. We need a new approach. The fact that the current situation is not sustainable is clear for everyone, for all the Member States of the European Union, but also for those who risk their lives on that dangerous route. As provided for in international law, each asylum application is examined individually. That applies to every asylum seeker on any route. However, there is a strong suspicion that most people arriving in Gran Canaria are not entitled to international protection, because it concerns economic migrants. The tweet was intended for economic migrants who use a non-legal route because they have no future here if they try to get into Belgium in a non-legal way. They will therefore have to return to their country of origin after a negative decision. That is why we must make it clear that economic migrants cannot come to Europe in this way. There's no point in them risking their lives in a boat. That is why I will work on it, including by means of distress campaigns and targeted communication, in order to make the message clear. My services have so far concentrated mainly on North-West and Central Africa, the Caucasus and the Balkans. After all, the countries on the busiest migratory routes take precedence. At the moment, part of the work is stopped because of covid travel restrictions. However, we are looking at other ways in which we can act as a deterrent. Since my appointment, I have been trying to get involved at European level. The new European Migration Pact, which is being negotiated today, could be promising, at least if the Member States show the ambition we need at European level. This will allow us to distinguish between real refugees and economic migrants much more quickly. It would mean that anyone arriving in Gran Canaria would be screened within five days. Economic migrants end up in a border procedure and must already be returned to their country of origin at the border. Those who do need protection will be redistributed across European territory. European cooperation is therefore crucial. It is also for this reason that I have already had a lot of discussions with several European Member States and have raised the issue several times at Council meetings. Mr Pivin, in conclusion, the European Commission has announced a new total of EUR 43.2 million for Spain to improve reception conditions in the Canary Islands, including access to health assistance, food and sanitation. The grant is part of an ongoing financial assistance project aimed at strengthening the capacity of the Spanish authorities to manage migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I am very disappointed by your reply. You say that there have been talks and that it will be no problem to send migrants who travel to Belgium back via Dublin. I will not fail to ask for these figures in writing, because if we ask them orally, you will ask us to do so. However, we all know that this approach often fails and that this is not a solution. You also say that the return is not evident because of COOVID-19 and that you had a good discussion with Morocco. I find that really disappointing: how can it be that the way out would be successful there is also COOVID-19, but that the return would not be obvious? You're gonna let them play with your feet. I had expected a much more powerful signal there than just sitting around waiting for vaccinations and then organizing the return. In addition, you say that there is good news: there will be no permanent reception structures. You said that in November or December, but our question is, above all, whether the hotel shelter has stopped, because it is mainly such stories that have a suction effect. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not think this is so important, because it seems that it has not been discussed and you cannot confirm today that the hotel reception has already stopped and that you have raised this aspect in particular both at European level and in a conversation with Spain. As far as the penultimate point is concerned, I have a separate question, which was perhaps better combined with this question. If it's all right with you, I'll get back to you in a minute. You say the detachment is stilling because of corona, but the influx is clearly not still, so I don't understand why the detachment isn't continuing. Finally, you say that the illegal migration of economic migrants is problematic and that they will be returned, but you yourself referred to the recent victims who have been caused by illegal migration. That's the problem. As long as you continue to tolerate this and continue to believe in the outdated European model, I refer once again to the alternative that we are putting forward, namely the Australian model, it remains a risk and people will continue to risk their lives with unfortunate victims, as you say. That is a pity, and I hope you will understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, you have been very clear about the talks with Spain and France. I'm a little disappointed that it's just more of the same, of the failed approach over the past few years and decades, but you've made that clear. As far as the talks with Morocco are concerned, I would have liked some clarification. I would like to call on you to ask for concrete commitments, including from Morocco, because at the moment it is a little vague. People are hiding behind the corona crisis. Of course, it is a good excuse for a number of things, but I believe that more can be done. I would like some more concrete commitments. As far as the drowned people are concerned, these are very serious human tragedies. In order to ensure that there are no more people taking that dangerous route as you describe it yourself, we urgently need a different approach. As far as the return is concerned, I think it is encouraging that you should bring it up, but we are also waiting for concrete results in this area. How many people have returned? How exactly are we going to bring them back? When can we expect the first results? Corona is causing difficulties, but I hope that you will soon be able to produce better results after the vaccines have been successfully administered. The screening in Gran Canaria could, of course, be a good solution. If we can keep and screen the people there, in order to determine who these very rare people are entitled to asylum and which people are not entitled to it because they are economic refugees or migrants, we must, of course, ensure that Gran Canaria, although it is an island, is not as leaky as a sieve and that those people there cannot simply get on the plane with their passports and travel to Spain, France, Germany, Belgium and the rest of North-West Europe. There's still a lot of work to be done. It sounds nice in theory, but in practice it's much harder. As far as the tweet is concerned, Mr Mahdi, if I had tweeted something like that, I would have been shot to shreds by your subsidised army of fact-checkers and your colleagues. I welcome your clarification. It sounds a little more realistic. I originally agreed with what was said, but the clarification is more in line with what you yourself have said. However, it is not in line with what your red and green colleagues in the Vivaldic coalition say. I would also like to hear from them that economic migrants have no future in Europe, that they all have to go back. I would also like to hear that from your red-green colleagues in the Vivaldic coalition and not just from the CD&V flank, to which you belong. Of course, this also applies to the point that always comes back: you can say that these people have to go back, but we do not see any results in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have heard you well about the nature of the proceedings and the fact that contacts are made. On the other hand, I didn't hear you about Frontex. I asked myself this question because I thought that if we were to strengthen at the security level, at the logistical level, it would probably be through the deployment of additional Frontex resources. You didn't say anything about it. I don't know if I have to conclude that it's because there's a status quo about it, or if it's just an omission. I shall, of course, put the question back in writing. I'd like to get that supplement from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, you have already said that the distress campaigns have been partially suspended for the sake of corona. Can you tell us exactly which distress campaigns have been drawn out and rolled out? What exactly are they implying? From your previous answer, I could not see exactly which campaigns are going on today, there was only a tweet on your part. What channels will one work through and what target groups do one want to reach? In what period will this happen? When will the campaigns resume? I don't really understand why they had to be shut down as a result of corona when we see that a lot of people are still making the illegal crossing. Why did you stop doing this? What range do you want to achieve with these campaigns?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u15	Mrs Van Camp, this question gives me the opportunity to give a little more explanation. I will interpret your question very widely and also address the restrictions on travel. You say people get here, but they don't come back. One cannot, of course, compare the way they come here with the way they should be returned. Economic migrants do not come here by plane, they try to get here illegally. It is therefore difficult to compare this with the return procedure. Then there's the way Spain and Gran Canaria catch these people. As I said, I am not the Federal Minister of the Interior, and I am certainly not the Spanish Minister of the Interior. I can have my opinion on this and I quote it in conversations with Spain, but it is difficult for you to blame me for the way in which Spain takes care of people. You can address the Spanish Ambassador or the Spanish Minister for the Interior, but it is not something I can say much about. The disarming campaigns are of course important and since this government took office, the Foreign Affairs Office has already organised a campaign to respond to the sudden increase in the number of Brazilian applications. That campaign has also had results. The distress campaigns that I had just launched are aimed at people who have long been in Belgium, but who have lost their income or shelter as a result of the corona crisis and are therefore seeking asylum. For the Brazilian community, Facebook, magazine articles and information brochures were used. That has been quite successful and was a good pilot project. Although it was more than a pilot project, it also had a serious impact on asylum applications from that community. It was a pilot project because we have worked with Facebook campaigns and Facebook Live, which has helped us achieve a lot of people in that community, thanks to civil society organisations. As a result, this had a much larger impact than the standard supply campaigns of the past, which were more old school, which happened through some newspaper clippings. Today many people across the world have a smartphone and so there are other ways to reach people much more targeted, faster and better. This campaign therefore deviates from what is normally organized, where the target group we want to reach is those who wish to migrate to Belgium for economic reasons and use the asylum procedures wrongly in order to obtain a residence status. My services have so far focused on North, West and Central Africa, the Caucasus and the Balkans. Covid has stopped it for a while. For example, a campaign was planned for Cameroon, but that campaign was postponed due to covid travel restrictions. As I said earlier in reply to Mr Van Langenhove, vaccinations are being organized in Belgium but also in the rest of the world, and so we will see new migratory flows. It is therefore important to ensure in the short term that we can roll out our distress campaigns again, because they will be necessary. These campaigns can be organised at different levels and ways. It can be done at a high level, either by yourself being on the ground or by sending out the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs. It can also be done at a lower level by sending out migration officials, in cooperation or not with NGOs and international organisations. These may be information campaigns via newspapers, brochures and, as far as I am concerned, much more via social media, via the Internet, via websites like Facts about Belgium, because that is the best way to reach the widest possible audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for supplementing the previous question. I am not asking you to act for Spain and arrange for the shelter there. You don't have to put words in my mouth. I specifically asked you if you have mentioned that you consider the hotel reception problematic, as purple-green has experience with the damaging suction effect of hotel care. My only question was whether, as the competent State Secretary in this country, you would clearly condemn the hotel shelter and ask for it to be stopped immediately and that you reassure us in Parliament and the people that the hotel reception will stop. So you don't do that, of which you're aware. I also find it very disappointing that Corona's derailment campaigns have stopped. The asylum applications are rising and are very high in these corona times. I will come back later with my colleague Darya Safai, who will follow this up. I can only recommend that these campaigns continue and resume until that influx is back to normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u17	Mr President, allow me to speak because I hear the interpreters regret that some Members are not wearing helmets. As I pointed out yesterday in the Health Committee, wearing the helmet is important for everyone's comfort. The interpretation service has been asking us for several months to wear a helmet to allow them to hear what we are talking about and to make it easier for them to do so. I would therefore like each of us to take responsibility and respect the work of our interpreters. I would remind you that the House of Representatives has provided a helmet, like the one I am wearing right now, and that we are invited to use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u18	You're absolutely right, Mr. Rigot. The Chamber also offers a headset at very good rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, best wishes to the secretariat and to the people of your cabinet. I wish them a good and hopefully healthy year, with a good balance between work and relaxation. The past year was not thrilling in terms of relaxation. The next year will certainly also have to show a great deal of courage and perseverance in many dossiers. Good consultation, including with the Länder, will be necessary. I wish you every success in that. One of the issues in which the Länder play a role is transit migration. The security of highway parking is mainly in the hands of the Länder. For Flanders, the Agency for Roads and Traffic is concerned with everything that happens on the highways. I had tabled a question in response to the problems at the border before the Brexit was implemented. In December it was indeed very busy on the motorways towards the United Kingdom. Now it's very quiet. Yesterday, a newspaper article in De Tijd stated that large traffic jams will not be expected for another two weeks. In any case, January is a calm month for international road transport, because December is so busy. Everything still has to get in for the parties, including the latest purchases. However, the problems persist in the absence of a structural solution. The Brexit is a particular challenge in the area of transit migration, as it can be expected that it will be more difficult to enter the United Kingdom and more transit migrants will be stopped on European territory. On the other hand, it can be expected that the many sometimes hours of stationary trucks waiting for customs clearance are ideal targets for transmigrants to hide in. You can't do that in a truck that drives through. Our truck drivers, the heroes of the road, are very thoughtful and sometimes assertive, which is also sometimes necessary, but they cannot compete against groups of transit migrants. Sometimes they risk their lives. There have been a lot of incidents there, including last month, especially on French territory. We will have to continue to follow up on this important issue. I understand that there is a new deal between the United Kingdom and France, and I read just now that you have spoken with your French colleague, Mr Tugendhat, in order to provide better protection around Calais. There was supposed to be British money, too. Our question is that such an agreement should also be concluded for Zeebrugge, Flanders and Belgium. How's things going right? What agreements do you have in the coming weeks, including with Mr Patel in Great Britain? There's a lot of trouble. You have said that you want to get back to work on the dossier, after it has stalled somewhat in the previous government. I hope it gets picked up. What's your approach? At the moment it is quiet in Zeebrugge. In two weeks' time we expect to have peaks again and therefore a lot of traffic. This is therefore the time to act and give guidelines. Finally, I've heard in the walkways, it's also in the article in De Tijd, that the crisis center would propose to provide a freeway parking, specifically for trucks, on the Heizel and parking C or in Zaventem. That belongs to Halle-Vilvoorde. That's not just my constituency, it's yours as well. It's even your arrondissement, Mr Secretary of State. I contacted the Flemish Government this morning because I was shocked by that communication. It's not official communication. I read it between the lines. In the last few days, I'd heard it was gonna be in the air. Is that right? Can you confirm that? Did you know about that? You're not the Home Secretary. That's right, but you might have heard that. What is your opinion, as Secretary of State? I would like to give you my opinion on this. If one creates a large freeway car park for lorries waiting for a customs clearance of the British people near the Maximilian Park in Brussels-North, at a tram or bus distance, and near the OOC in Lower Over-Heembeek, then it seems to me that the cat is being put in the milk. I am afraid that we will have a great deal of safety problems, partly due to the fact that transmigrants are climbing the lorries there. The mayors in the Edge and the governor look at it with their eyes on them. If you do not know yet, I can only call on you to inform you and to check with colleagues whether that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u20	May I ask you to keep an eye on the time limits? Otherwise, we will not get very far with our questions today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u21	Mr President, I am sure that goes for me as well. I'll try to keep to that. Mr Francken, you are right to point out that this is a shared competence. Some of the questions have to be put to my colleague Annelies Verlinden, since she is specifically responsible for police cooperation in the border region. I will therefore have to confine myself to the questions that fall within my area of competence. As far as highway parking is concerned, I have regular discussions with my colleague and I will have further discussions to hear what is the right approach. I take your concerns with me, not because I am from the Halle-Vilvoorde region, but because it is important to organize them in a sensible way. Indeed, I have been in contact with both France and the United Kingdom. On 17 November 2020 I contacted the French ambassador and on 4 December I contacted the UK Minister for Immigration Compliance. Both France and the United Kingdom are interested in additional agreements on transmigration and are willing to negotiate them trilaterally. There is a concrete agreement to discuss these matters after the adoption of an agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom on their future relationship. The Member States agreed not to negotiate bilaterally with the United Kingdom on political issues before. However, Belgium has advocated that additional cooperation agreements be concluded with the United Kingdom, even after the end of the transitional period. That must be done after that. The consultations with both the French Ambassador and the United Kingdom Minister have been very successful, and it is their ambition and our ambition to move forward in this area, building on the good work already done by the previous government. The subject of transmigration is also on the agenda internally in Belgium, in order to prevent the problem from moving from Calais to Zeebrugge. The consultation in the Co-ordination Group Return, COTER, specifically on transmigration, is restarting. The consultation will be established after the first general COTER consultation next week. In addition, I can only emphasise what I have already said with regard to Gran Canaria. What applies to Gran Canaria also applies to Zeebrugge and Belgium or Flanders, namely that permanent reception structures for transmigration do not help because they mainly create a suction effect. We must, above all, inform the people. That is the most important thing we can do from our point of view. We should not set up reception structures. They have caused problems in the past in Calais.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, I will try to respect the time limit, but this is an important point. Also because of the information about the potential highway parking in Halle-Vilvoorde I needed some more time to explain the situation. I understand that you cannot confirm it and that you will seek further information. If such plans are launched in the future by the Crisis Centre, which also concerns your powers, you should give a call asking to keep you informed, so that you are not caught in speed and then still by the damn Francks. Secondly, after the first plenary session, you are referring COTER Transmigration back to the sub-group on transmigration. I had already heard about it in the corridors, and that is very good. Finally, you intend to continue working on an agreement. I hope so. We were almost there, but not entirely with former Minister Jambon, so that would be good news if this legislature succeeded. I wish you good luck with that, but please negotiate tight and firm, because the British are not from yesterday. Now that the Brexit deal is complete, Parliament still has to ratify the agreement. I think you have the opportunity to try it bilaterally again. Maybe the file will get around in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, first of all I would like to join in the wishes addressed to you in wishing you a very good year. I hope that 2021 will be the year of serenity, which it is essential to preserve in the cases you are in charge of. We must objectiveize the situation and find solutions by sometimes exceeding political ideologies. I would also like to express my wishes to all those people who come from elsewhere who are here today, regardless of their status. It is to be hoped that they will have a better future and participate in the issue of 2021, which must be vaccination. Your skills concern both undocumented people and those who reside in asylum centres, in short all migrants in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u24	Mr Moutquin, thank you for your wishes also addressed to people who are sometimes forgotten, even in this committee. Indeed, in 2018, the State Security examined 39,220 applications from the Aliens Office and the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA). In 2019, there were 43,289 applications. Most of these verifications were carried out as part of the screening of applicants for international protection (IPD). In 2018, the 23,387 IPR audits gave 76 hits and in 2019, the 26,140 IPR audits gave 39 hits. The increase is also related to the higher number of IPRs. A verification is systematically carried out within the framework of IPRs introduced into the territory. Furthermore, in the procedures of access to the territory and residence, the Aliens Office may take a reasoned refusal decision on the basis of facts of public order but also of national security. For this reason, the State Security Service is consulted for certain procedures on a case-by-case basis, depending on the elements of the person's administrative file. It carries out more systematic checks before issuing a permanent residence permit or extending a temporary stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your full answer. I'm still asking myself a question that I'll send you in writing. Since the number of checks did not correspond to the number of asylum applications, what criteria were taken into account? Is it a criterion of nationality, origin of a region or other? I find it interesting to look at this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, given the importance of our work in this committee, there is always a gap between the current situation, the moment when we ask our questions and the moment when we get the answer. But I still have to remember that number that's cold in the back. Over the past seven years, almost 20,000 people have died in the Mediterranean. Without wanting to be morbid – you must be able to say the reality – this figure corresponds only to the bodies that have been found. Experts believe that this number is much larger. It could even be doubled. Amnesty International refers to the fact that most of these people come from Libya, a country where human rights violations are proven by countless reports. Migrants often find themselves in the hands of traffickers, sold as slaves. There are also reports of sexual violence against migrant women, etc. The NGO recalls that returning refugees and migrants intercepted at sea to Libya is exposing them to the violence that is proven in that country. Today, 660,000 migrants in Libya are exposed to torture, slavery, etc. Secretary of State, what concrete solutions do you want to develop to help these people? Does Belgium intend to welcome migrants rescued at sea by humanitarian boats such as the Open Arms? I recall that in 2019 the Belgian Parliament voted a resolution to join the Malta Agreement. What about it? Is Belgium in favour of a humanitarian corridor from Libya to Europe for vulnerable migrants? Is this possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u27	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, I thank you for your question, which is still relevant, except that the figures have probably changed. Yesterday, the Flemish press mentioned that four people drowned while on their way to the Canary Islands. I do not know whether this was also included in the French-language press. These are always and still sad numbers. Too many migrants take a great risk by crossing the Mediterranean in ships unfit for navigation. Even in the midst of the health crisis, too many deaths are to be deplored. As you say, this problem needs to be addressed at European level. I want to be part of a European policy in which the activities of NGOs are not hindered. It is also important for the European Union to assume this responsibility for private and commercial shipping. In addition, Member States must assume the responsibility of the rescued persons by disembarking them quickly, providing them with the necessary urgent medical care, treating them and distributing them according to the appropriate procedure. In other words, Belgium will welcome asylum seekers who arrive by boat like other asylum seekers, and the asylum criteria will be the same. The establishment of a collective humanitarian corridor from Libya and the implementation of the Malta Agreement do not offer a lasting solution. These mechanisms are contrary to the principle of an individual evaluation procedure. Having said that, Belgium will continue to show humanity and solidarity in the event of an acute emergency abroad requiring the reception of vulnerable persons. At European level, Frontex is required to participate in search and rescue operations through the European Union Regulation establishing the European Border and Coast Guard. The Agency has an obligation to provide technical and operational assistance to rescue operations at sea which may take place during border surveillance operations in the Mediterranean and elsewhere. Search and rescue activities are also a specific objective of the operational plan for each of Frontex's maritime operations. By 2021, Frontex is expected to employ about 1,000 more people. A large number of Belgians have already been recruited into the various categories of employment within Frontex's standing corps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I agree with you on the need for a European policy. But I encourage you to move forward without waiting for Mr. Orbán to wake up one morning, progressive. We are aware of the difficulties in the European migration pact and we know that a European consensus on an emergency situation is unfortunately not possible. I can therefore only encourage you to take the lead in the courageous countries in the European Union in finding a solution that will not be national, nor European, but intermediate and multilateral. You have referred to durable solutions which are indeed necessary. However, there is an emergency situation in Libya that would probably require rapid responses, without lasting responses. This is about the commitments you made on the occasion of your policy note. I am thinking in particular of the development of safe and legal channels, namely resettlement and humanitarian visas in catastrophic situations, as is the case in Libya today. I was in contact with an organization on the spot who explained to me that she had discovered, among other things, a cache of women sold as sexual slaves. In the face of such a situation, an urgent solution must be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u29	Mr. Secretary of State, I recalled in the beginning of my question a tragedy, of which I will not spread out the details to start well in the year 2021. This is the story of Farika, an Eritrean woman. Indeed, many Eritreans are affected by this phenomenon of transit migration. According to British customs, 25,071 migrants were arrested at the border. Myria reports that a majority of them are of Eritrean origin. In your policy note, you argue that a structural solution is only possible if solutions are brought to the European level. However, the new Pact on Asylum and Migration, as proposed by the European Commission, does not propose to go back to the Dublin Regulation, since it does not break this mechanism of first registered country, the country which has to process the application. Mr Secretary of State, in accordance with the Government Agreement, what do you intend to put in place with the Regions on motorway areas, in particular to raise awareness and help migrants in transit? Is financial and human support provided? In your policy note, you stress the need to inform people with a transit profile about the asylum possibilities they have in Belgium. Indeed, Eritreans do not know that they are likely to be able to apply for asylum in Belgium. That's all at stake! It is to explain to these people that, rather than aspire to the British dream, which sometimes is not one, they are likely to be recognized here as asylum seekers. What do you intend to put in place at the information level? I know you have contacts with the mayor of Tournai about this. And I think that E42 in particular will be a very important issue for the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u30	Mr Moutquin, you correctly say that everyone has the right to seek asylum. This does not mean that everyone is entitled to it and, too often, people are not aware of it. Migrants in transit always have the opportunity to apply for asylum in Belgium and to integrate the Fedasil reception network. It is therefore essential to give precise information to the persons who are on Belgian territory. To this end, I am examining the possibility of extending the Fedasil overseas team, with a view to informing migrants, both in Brussels and elsewhere in Belgium, particularly on motorway areas, as you yourself say. In fact, properly informing these people is what matters. In the past, it may be done through a website or brochure, but in order to really inform people in the best circumstances, human contacts must be given priority. Hence, the importance of having these overseas teams to accomplish this task. Precisely, until mid-November 2020, the overseas team had 2,461 individual contacts. I repeat this number: 2,461. I do, too, sometimes write down all the numbers. So I'd rather repeat myself to make sure that you were able to note that. There were also 150 individual trips. Contact moments are moments of general information. An individual journey includes orientation and individual counselling: 22% of these individual sessions have led to integration into the legal circuit; 19% are still in progress. These are still fairly positive figures, which compared to the impact of a brochure, immediately reflect the effects of this team overseas. Finally, I am not considering setting up a reception centre or financial aid for migrants in transit. I have already indicated this in response to the previous question from some of your colleagues. I think setting up a reception centre won't help, because it's going to cause an air call. First of all, it is necessary to be able to inform people well, so that they know their rights, and not to facilitate their transmigration, which often brings them into a difficult situation. That is what must be avoided at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u31	Mr Mahdi, thank you. You said something that is, for me, fundamental. You said, "from human to human." I think the challenge is to realize that there are local initiatives that are ready to do this information work. There are citizens who, since the 2015 reception crisis, have been in contact with migrants in transit. They can do this job of connecting. I know that we do not have to ask citizens to do the work of the state, but they have been ready and supportive for years. They have every interest, in the end, in the fact that people, who sometimes stay at home, can have good information. There are citizens, municipalities, provinces, collectives who are ready to do this work. They're missing two things. On the one hand, your authorization. On the other hand, even if you say, "I'm not prepared to spend money in a night reception centre," and I hear it, there may be alternatives or intermediate solutions. I am sure that day centres, information centres that do not provide night reception, could allow these people to land. I believe that it is essential that they do so, that they may be disconnected from the channels of traffickers who exploit them and give them false information. They could benefit from psychological assistance, social assistance and legal assistance to enable them to apply for asylum. This is really a fundamental issue and having only a safe logic in the issue of transmigration will not work – unfortunately or fortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u32	Mr Moutquin, psychological and medical follow-up is provided from the date of arrival of the person concerned at the closed centre. There are plans to hire psychologists again and recruitment is under way. Vulnerability detection is carried out by a multidisciplinary team of psychologists, social workers, educators, members of the security teams, and the management of the centre. It begins on the first day of detention by an intake made by the social workers and the medical team. Records requiring more attention are reported to the central department and followed up with diligence. They are processed during a weekly meeting within the central services, in order to arrive at the right solution for each individual case, and to ensure detention as short as possible. At the centre, these files are followed day after day. The existing right of appeal is sufficient to ensure compliance with the rules on continued detention. In addition, the alien may lodge an appeal against the decision of retention with the Chamber of Counsel. As early as the fifth month of detention, the Aliens Office is required to submit the extension decision to the Chamber of Counsel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I congratulate you on the recruitment of new psychologists. For having often gone to the closed centre, I know that there was a shortage of them. They were sometimes out of date. It is an admirable staff in support of these people. Psychologists were asking for team reinforcements. So that's very good news. As stated in the note and in the government agreement, the aim is to improve the conditions of detention of detained persons. Improving the possibility of filing complaints for people who sometimes find themselves in complicated psychological situations would be another aspect. Mechanisms exist, but they may sometimes fail, from one closed centre to another. It is really fundamental that there is a way for detained persons to allow information to reach the Aliens Office as well as others, without going through a leadership that may find it difficult to find faults.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, this is a bit old and is partly related to those that will follow on Bosnia. As you know, on the night of September 8-9, 2020, the Moria refugee camp in Greece was the prey of the flames. Belgium was first committed to relocating 15 minors, before you promised seats for 150 people - which I congratulate and thank you for. However, more than three months after the tragedy, I wanted to take stock with you. Since the filing of my question, I have seen that a few people have arrived in Belgium. Anyway, this file seems to be taking some time. Mr Secretary of State, what are the possible blockages? How many places are currently available in the host network? How is cooperation with the Communities in the reception of MENA taking place? Has any additional funding been allocated by the Federal Government to the Flemish Community and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, which are responsible for the care of children at risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u35	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, yesterday there was an interview in De Morgen with the project manager of Doctors Without Borders. She worked in Moria for three years. In the article or interview, the terrible situation in the Greek refugee camps was re-zoomed. The new camp in Moria, also called Moria 2.0, is located by the sea level. It is often completely flooded with rain and wind. There are far too few opportunities for refugees to wash up. The residents of the camp get a ticket once a week to wash up. These problems have been known for a long time. It is well known that living conditions in the camps are very poor, that the framework is inadequate and that the safety of refugees is not guaranteed, which could lead to very serious crimes. Although Europe stated that a solution would be found for the camp, Belgium received only 30 young people in 2020. That's why I have two questions for you. Will Belgium be more committed to the reception and distribution of refugees in camps such as Moria? You and your predecessor promised to receive 150 refugees from Moria. What is the situation at the moment? Do you consider these efforts sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u36	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, Mrs Daems, thank you for your questions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the fire at the Moria camp in Lesbos, Belgium has decided to transfer from Greece 12 unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA) as well as 150 applicants for international protection (DPI). It is a decision that has been taken by this government and not by the previous one. It's important to make that clear. The transfer of MENA has already taken place on 17 December 2020. The criteria for these 150 people were passed on to Greek colleagues. These are persons registered in the asylum procedure who also meet one of the following criteria: - family with children: high degree (over 75%) of IPR; - a link with Belgium; - a particular vulnerability; - women alone. The Greek authorities have been notified of the criteria since October 2020. I can only stress that it is important to me that these criteria are taken into account. When it is proposed to include people in Belgium who do not meet those criteria, I can only say that the criteria are what they are and that we should all agree on them. As soon as they have been approved, the candidates' files will be forwarded to the administration responsible for a security check as well as the risk of exclusion from international protection. In the event of positive control, applicants may be transferred to our territory. In order to facilitate transfers and reduce their impact on our reception system, the 150 people will be divided into 6 groups of about 25 depending on the size of the families. Normally, all transfers will take place in the first half of this year. Again, I can only hope for an acceleration of the current procedure. Indeed, like you, I am frustrated by the time taken by the European mechanism. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that the criteria that have been determined are met, including in Greece. On the part of the Belgian authorities, every effort is being made to organise this action as soon as possible. However, this task takes time. In addition, we depend on external factors, including the cooperation of foreign bodies. Despite the persistent state of saturation of the host network, in the first and second phase for the MENA, Fedasil ensures that each of them has a suitable place. As a result, it will be possible to accommodate the 150 applicants for international protection from this month in regular places within the reception network. As regards the youngest and/or most vulnerable MENA, since 2018 the Agency has had two conventions: one with the Flemish Community - Agentschap Opgroeien, die 150 plaatsen voorzit - and the other with the Wallonia-Brussels Federation - the General Administration of Youth Assistance (AGAJ), which has a capacity of 130 places. These places are co-financed by the Agency. I will accept my responsibility for asylum seekers and refugees who are in appalling situations in other Member States or third countries, just as I expect other European Member States to do. Any request for relocation from another EU Member State receiving Belgium will be examined. If the asylum seeker is effectively in an emergency situation or if the European Commission asks for it, we can devolve asylum seekers within the limits of the national reception capacity. With regard to refugees in third countries, we will honour our European commitments. I have made that clear a few times. I have already clarified the ambition of relocation and resettlement on several occasions. We hope to be able to do so, but of course always within the limits of national reception capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I look forward to having this debate on the European migration pact together. I hope that it can be held in this committee because, once again, we see that the issues relating to the Dublin Regulation and relocation at European level need to be rethought. I see some inconsistency. When the Moria camp burned, the European Union called on the Member States to return quickly to a distribution mechanism, which was done. Parliamentary work has been done to motivate the previous government and you have also made sure to increase the number of people. Today, however, the same European Union, which called for rapid action, finds itself in extremely slow procedures, while Belgium seems ready. I can only regret it. Mr Secretary of State, I join you in hoping that the procedure can be completed as soon as possible. Winter is already taking place in Greece. An urgent and structural solution must be found to help Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, you say that all transfers will take place in the first half of this year. We don't really know much about that, because that could take a very long time. After all, the fire in Moria dates back a few months ago and every person who can be saved from this situation is already a victory in itself. The situation in Moria 2.0 is harrowing and we must not look away. You say that you want to work through the European framework, but the latest version of the migration pact states that European migration policy will be externalised. However, this implies a continuation of the current degrading circumstances, but now at the EU's external borders. It is therefore a question of whether such a policy respects the Geneva Convention. There is a real chance that the EU will not resolve this humanitarian problem. In the meantime, other countries, especially Germany, are contributing by taking care of the refugees from these camps. Pending a European decision, Belgium could follow the lead and do more than is currently foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u39	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all I would like to express my best wishes to you and to the staff of your cabinet. I wish you a great deal of professional satisfaction in the new year, and many interesting debates with Parliament. I would like to question you about the role of Frontex as a result of a number of worrying reports about pushbacks. I submitted this question a while ago, but the issue remains topical. The reports that Frontex not only looks away from illegal border practices, but also actively cooperates on pushbacks, keep coming. Pushbacks are contrary to international law. Returning refugees or migrants to the sea is not right. That is not in accordance with international law. However, Frontex states that it is transparent and accountable for its work. Our coalition agreement also makes it very clear that Frontex must respect fundamental rights and respect international obligations. Well, that's pretty obvious. Frontex has decided to launch an internal investigation. I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. Will our country raise this issue at European level and steer it towards the respect of Frontex for fundamental rights and international obligations? There was a meeting of Frontex's board of directors in November, I believe. Our country is represented on that board through the federal police. What attitude has Belgium taken there? Is it sufficiently assertive on this issue? A new European Commission migration and asylum pact includes a proposal to develop a mechanism to verify reports on pushbacks. What is our country's position on this proposal to monitor incidents at the external borders?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u40	Mr De Vriendt, good wishes to you too. I hope that we can make it a good year in substance and that we can have nice debates and, above all, good discussions. I am aware of the recent accusations in the press against Frontex. Of course, I take it very seriously. You are right to point out that the coalition agreement is based on the basic principle that the European institutions and agencies must respect fundamental rights. At this stage, it is important to know the right facts in order to be able to react correctly. The situation in and around Greek waters is very tense. Several groups seem to have their own interests there. I have already asked the previous German Presidency and the Commission what steps they will take in this matter to object to the debate. The Belgian representatives on Frontex's Board of Directors were asked to follow up the investigation and to make the Belgian position known. The Belgian position is, of course, in line with what we have clarified in the coalition agreement: the basic principles must be respected. An extraordinary Board of Directors of Frontex, which took place on 10 November, published the first results of the internal investigation. The incidents concerned boats from the Greek Coast Guard, where the quality of the images is insufficient to determine whether mistakes have been made. Frontex boats were located in the wider vicinity of the incidents, but did not make any special findings at the time of the alleged incidents. The question is therefore rather whether Frontex employees could or should have seen something from their position. Meanwhile, the results of the additional investigation requested by the Member States and the Commission are known. On 1 December, a hearing was held with the Director of the Frontex in which he replied to the questions put by the Member States, the European Parliament and the Commission. Frontex has investigated the various allegations. No evidence of refoulement, nor of Frontex's active involvement, was found. According to the director, this proves that the incident reporting mechanism works. The Commission also retains its confidence in the Director for the time being. In the meantime, the Frontex Board also considered Frontex's broader policy on respect for fundamental rights. In this way, there is also more structural follow-up to this case. For me, it is essential to restore confidence in Frontex and to continue cooperation with the NGOs. In this respect, it is relevant to mention that Frontex has established a consultative forum consisting of NGOs and international organisations, including Amnesty International and UNHCR, which assist the Agency in the implementation of relevant international law. My policy is based on figures and dates, which I have been able to clarify several times in this committee and in plenary. The same goes for the pushbacks. As has already been said, it is very important that we give the true facts of the alleged incidents you are referring to, in order to be able to hold the right institutions or bodies to account. I'm not naive: different players have different interests to make accusations or just deny them. I will therefore support any good proposal for objectification and control at European and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u41	Mr Secretary of State, you are, of course, right to examine the facts first, because all kinds of things are said on all sides, as is always the case. However, if the facts point to a problem, then we expect you and our federal government to denounce that problem sufficiently assertively. That seems equally obvious to me. A certain level of alertness is necessary anyway. Just now, in another discussion, you said that the right to asylum does not exist, but the right to asylum. If people are fleeing for legitimate reasons, even if it is via the Mediterranean, they must be able to apply for asylum somewhere. A pushback is completely contradictory to that. It is therefore really important to continue to respect the principle with the European Union, and thus with Frontex. I would ask you to take the messages seriously, to examine them and, if necessary, to take further steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u42	Mr. Moutquin, the introduction of an income condition in the Family Reunification Act was a deliberate choice by the legislator at the time of the amendment in 2011. This legislative amendment subsequently also passed the test of the Constitutional Court. However, if the reference amount is not reached, there is no automatic refusal. An individual investigation is then conducted. The reason why there is a condition of income is to avoid new arrivals becoming a burden for our social security system. In my view, this was a legitimate concern and I therefore do not intend to amend the family reunification legislation on this point. I believe that this is a good way of not placing too much burden on social security. At the same time, this can help us strengthen the employment activation system that is important to us too. This does not make access to our social security system impossible for persons legally residing in Belgium. If they are entitled to an allowance, they will receive it. The study of the University of Liège also deals with nationality legislation. However, it does not fall within my jurisdiction. I have not yet contacted my colleague Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities on this point. I intend to see all my colleagues this year, and therefore also my colleague, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. If covid-19 allows it, we will do it in a physical way. But for the time being, unfortunately, this will be done digitally. The fight against poverty is important, regardless of the origin of the person concerned. This struggle must be waged on several fronts. I am therefore convinced that access to the labour market and employment play an important role in this regard, as I said earlier. The recent study by the National Bank shows that there is still a significant margin of progress in Belgium. As part of my skills, I will examine how we can improve access to the labour market. I will also consider whether this issue can be addressed in the Interministerial Conference on Migration and Integration, should it begin. On a number of issues, including this one, I refer to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. That is because I think it is a way of developing important measures. This also concerns your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. In your response, you address an important element that should now be taken into consideration. It is this idea of social burden. We will have an opportunity to discuss this, since we are holding hearings in the Committee on the Interior, in general, on the report of the National Bank. The issue of social burden has been experiencing a new difficulty since the covid-19. For the past year, many people who claimed family reunification have lost their jobs. Often, these were rather precarious jobs. These people can no longer prove the amount required because of the covid-19. I am thinking of the catastrophic situation of foreign students. I understand that you are currently planning on the issue of student visas, in general. In Belgium, countless students have lost their jobs and cannot claim CPAS income since they are told that if they go to CPAS, they represent a burden for the Belgian State and they risk expulsion with an order to leave the territory. I can only encourage you to work on this issue. I live in Louvain-la-Neuve, a university town. I meet foreign students who come to have to do the trick – or worse – to try to stay in Belgium because they have the will to finish their studies. In my view, there is really something to do for this case, for a specific moment and not especially structurally. It's an emergency anyway. On the question of work and what I have understood about your idea of migration, it seems to me that this report is a boon. It shows that migration does not represent a cost provided that these people are integrated and have access to the labour market. Some studies show that migrants have a motivation and sometimes employment rate in equivalent diplomas and higher jobs for nationals. It makes lies the rhetoric of the far right that has been sold to us for years and that is the migrant profiter. That's not the case. The report of the National Bank has shown this. We need to be able to use it and to provide answers, particularly with regard to integration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u44	After agreement with my good colleague, Mr Vandenput, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u45	Of course, I'm doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the question about the video hearing in open centres following the project in which twelve minors were heard at videoconference, a survey was carried out among all the parties involved. That means the protection officer, the applicant, the guardian, the lawyer and the interpreter. This shows that hearing via videoconferencing is a good alternative, provided that some adjustments and compliance with a number of conditions are made. Almost all the parties concerned felt that the video hearing had gone smoothly and that the applicant could easily tell his story. All respondents, including lawyers, indicated that in certain cases a video hearing could certainly be appropriate, e.g. for re-convocations, for persons with physical disabilities, for applicants staying a long distance from Brussels, during the covid pandemic and to promote the speed of the procedure. I would like to list the points of substance. Discussing documents is more difficult through a video hearing. A video hearing requires significantly more concentration. Part of the non-verbal communication is obviously lost. A number of practical issues are the need for constant technical support on both sides, a large screen, a stable internet connection and sufficient breaks. These practical points are undoubtedly also known to you after the many zoom meetings of the last few months. Personally, I am in favour of the possibility of organising video hearing. We need to embrace the digital possibilities. COVID has made it clear not only in the field of asylum and migration, but also in other policy areas that we can make some opportunities gains through accelerated digitisation in many departments. The video hearing can thus be a full alternative to a face-to-face conversation, but only in certain circumstances. This applies, among other things, to the Covid-19 pandemic, but it can still be useful for certain specific profiles, as can be seen from the survey of those involved. I believe in innovative projects to complement the existing possibilities, not to replace them. The European Commission, the European Asylum Support Office and the UNHCR have already expressed this view. I therefore also intend to make video hearing possible by amending the royal decree. However, physical hearing on the CGVS remains the norm and continues to favour it. It was never intended to stop the system of physical hearing and replace it with hearing via videoconferencing. A legal framework and continuous evaluation and adjustment of the system of video hearing are necessary to provide sufficient guarantees for the applicant. In addition, an appeal under full jurisdiction against the decision of the CGVS to the Council for Foreign Affairs Disputes remains possible. This may also include elements relating to the video hearing, which is all the more reason to use that video hearing only for very specific cases, but to embrace it in any way, since the actors involved, who are coming from very far or in the event of re-convocation themselves, indicate that it is useful, because it relieves them of a lot of burdens. It seems to be the way to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, I look forward to the content of the royal decree. After all, there is also a downside. You say that it would involve very specific exceptional circumstances and would be additional. On the other hand, a number of refugee organisations went to the Council of State because of the arrangement to also work with video hearing in the open centres. It is a point of interest that there is not enough non-verbal communication to be picked up. So we really need to look at when the technique will be applied and when it will not. An asylum procedure is very delicate. Contradictions are being watched very closely. That's being severely sanctioned, too. I have always had questions about this very severe punishment of the slightest contradiction, all the more so because refugees arriving here on an escape route have to tell their stories immediately, while they are often still in the grip of smugglers who, among other things, try to tell them a story. We must not continue along this road. I therefore ask for great caution in answering the question of when to use the technique and when not. Anyway, it's being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased that you will change the royal decision to allow video hearing and at the same time confirm that physical meetings will still be the norm. We all experience it ourselves, Zoom is easy in some cases, but transferring body language is crucial in conversations like this. We will certainly read and support this royal decision carefully; the norm must always be a physical meeting, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my best wishes to everyone and also good courage to you, Mr Secretary of State. You will need it, but thanks to good cooperation we will figure it out. In Zeebrugge it is mainly about the Brexit, but the problem of the transmigrants has been there for years and it will not disappear either. In response to an open letter from a Brugse mandataris, my good colleague De Plancke, you spoke about the possibility of "placing a processing centre in Zeebrugge." Your goal is noble, in particular to try to do everything to reduce the pressure on the municipalities." We are now almost a month and a half later and I have the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. What about the investigation into the arrival of a processing centre in Zeebrugge? What's the timing? Can you explain more about the purpose or tasks of such a treatment centre? What other services are involved in the project? Do you have a location in mind for the center? In existing or new infrastructure? I am, of course, looking forward to your answers, together with all the inhabitants of Zeebrugge and North Bruges, because we believe that the arrival of such a centre can be part of the structural solution. After all, we must be honest that what we are doing now is to continue to pick up transmigrants and then to release them immediately, inter alia by COOVID-19, and to send them back onto the streets, of course, is not a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I agree with Mr Pill's introduction. I also put this question to Mr Maaike De Vreese, who follows up on the problems in the Flemish Parliament. My questions are not so much about practical arrangements, but above all about how the centre will operate cross-zonal. The problem not only rages in Zeebrugge, but also in Blankenberge or Knokke, for example. That is where the consequences of the transmigation problem are being borne, hence my questions. Will other police areas be able to use the centre as well? In the opposite direction, how will you, if there is an exemption from transmigrenders, we know that they are very difficult to return, prevent them from being exempted in Bruges, where the center would be located, or surroundings, and thus immediately make another attempt at climbing in?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u51	Thank you for referring to your question, Mr Segers, not because I do not like to listen to the right remarks made by the other two colleagues, but because this is a matter for the Minister of the Interior. I saw the question. I've also read the quote, but that quote doesn't come from me. I understand the confusion. I looked up the article again. I don't remember exactly what newspaper it was in. In the article came a quote just after my name, but that quote doesn't come from me. It's a quote from my colleague and not from myself. I am not responsible for the establishment and organisation of a processing centre. It's an important problem. It is not for nothing that I went to Zeebrugge to follow closely the whole problem of transmigration, but I can only express my opinion on matters within my competence. I must therefore ask you to address your question to the Minister. I had asked for the question to be forwarded to the Minister, but that does not mean that my services could and will, above all, provide support when the police would open up such a centre. That is crucial. You have outlined it correctly, Mr Pillen. This problem needs to be addressed in a structural way. We have been waiting far too long for a structural approach. You will therefore be able to count on my cooperation when the processing centre arrives. My services will do all they can to ensure the smooth running of the business.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, I'm a little surprised. I have to take the time to look things up. I believe I have seen an e-mail from your cabinet announcing, among other things, that handling centre. That e-mail was sent to a local mandator in Bruges. Of course, it can always be a mistake, a mistake or the drive of an employee. That can happen, that is not a problem, but your answer surprises me. On the basis of that e-mail, I asked you the question, otherwise I would have put it directly to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much for your clarity. Your answer was not what I expected, but it was very clear. I will re-apply the question to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u53	I will. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, I do not entirely agree with your answer, because in my question I had focused very hard on the multidisciplinary approach to the phenomenon. For the sp.a it is very important that it is not just a treatment centre. In the end, we are not going to get anywhere with a purely administrative procedure. The above mentioned municipalities are also hardly making any progress. Mr. Secretary of State, don't make the mistake previously made with Steenokkerzeel. We warned against it at that time. Unfortunately, it also came out that way. In the end, we have come to a push-through or revolving door policy. That is why I chose not to talk about a treatment centre, but about a centre for transit migrants. We absolutely must avoid the stories of the past, where there was not even time to read cell phones, which nevertheless contain information that is essential to roll up those networks. The smugglers, although this does not sound very respectful, are the evidence of the criminal networks. We need to be able to tackle these criminal networks with root and branch, just by tackling the smugglers. That's what we need intel for. The police work must be meaningful, the multidisciplinary approach is essential and your services are also essential. In the question I referred, among other things, to the staff of Bureau C, the cell dealing with minors and other services. Only in such a multidisciplinary model can we make real progress. That is also the most efficient model. This is the only way we can roll up the networks even better. I'm sure of it. Controlled and human is the most efficient. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to call on you to take your role very clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have to attend a meeting of the Bureau in a moment. So I will read your answer in the report. Mr Secretary of State, the fire in the refugee camp in Lipa, Bosnia and Herzegovina, puts hundreds of people in the winter cold. We have all seen the very poignant images. The situation in the camps has long been inadequate despite the efforts of the IOM and other organisations. This situation is happening at our European external borders. I was there a few years ago myself. In Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, the local and national authorities are not doing what is necessary to provide decent reception and proper procedures for migrants who wish to apply for asylum. That seems to be the most important problem at the moment. The country is a candidate country for membership of the European Union. I have four questions for you. Firstly, what is moving at European level? Secondly, are there sufficient funds to provide shelter to the affected refugees? Thirdly, will the Belgian Government contact the Bosnian ambassador in our country and insist on the organisation of decent care? I repeat that the problem is certainly also political. Finally, what other initiatives is our country planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u56	Mr President, Secretary of State, the situation has already been outlined by Mr De Vriendt. The questions I have are very simple. Has there been any consultation at European level with Commissioner Johansson or with Head of State Borrell? What is the outcome of this consultation? How many migrants are staying in the camp? Do you have any figures on that? For the European Asylum and Migration Pact, the ambition was to achieve a commitment from all Member States by the end of 2020. How's that commitment coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u57	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all, allow me to express my best wishes for this year, which I wish you both professionally and privately. My colleagues have already brushed the context you know, of course. So I will go straight to my questions. Mr Secretary of State, the UN Human Rights Office has come up against the intolerable situation in Bosnia. What urgent response can we give to this situation and when we are in the middle of winter? The International Organization for Migration (IOM), the site manager, decided some time ago to withdraw its teams and called for the reopening of the Bira reception centre in the neighbouring town of Bihać. This is also the solution chosen by European Commissioner Ylva Yohansson. Can we also affirm our solidarity by supporting the reopening of the centre of Bira? As in the case of the Moria camp, is there a plan for the distribution or relocation of these migrants negotiated by the European Union as a matter of urgency or will they be left behind in the snow and homeless? Should we recall that the European Union has provided Bosnia with some €85 million since 2018 to help it cope with migration? However, 3,000 of the 8,500 migrants remain without reception. Are there European missions to exchange good practices and support programmes for the reception of applicants for international protection in Bosnia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u58	Mr President, Secretary of State, the tragedy experienced by the 1,300 migrants from the Lipa camp in Bosnia has come in a particular context, since thousands of migrants have been waiting for years to cross the Bosnian border to enter the Schengen area in order to apply for asylum. I went there last year, before the onset of the covid-19 crisis, with my colleague, Wouter De Vriendt. We have seen the extreme tension in Bosnia and the complexity of the situation there. Indeed, as many reports indicate, Croatia allows or participates, according to the versions, in a policy of pushback, refoulement, extremely violent. We met people who had been attacked by rabid people, who had been shot. Some had been thrown into the river between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. These thousands of people participate in what they call the game, the game which, in fact, aims to cross the small part of Croatia before Slovenia in order to be able to apply for asylum. The context is therefore not just humanitarian; it is also political. IOM director Peter Van der Auweraert of Belgium shouts his despair and calls for a political rather than a humanitarian solution. As for the 1,300 people in Lipa camp, they were promised that they would be relocated to the previous camp, a decommissioned factory near Bihać. But the political situation in Bosnia is even more complex than that in Belgium, since the different powers divided between the Federal State, the Regions and the localities give rise to a very complicated institutional lasagna with relations of forces which are just as complicated. So, to add indecency to this situation, while a relocation had been promised to these migrants, they were parked on buses for 30 hours before turning around to the locality of Lipa. With the arrival of winter, one can only worry about the dramatic situation these people are experiencing. Secretary of State, what is your reaction and that of the government to this tragedy? Are human and/or humanitarian means envisaged? Are relocations, such as those carried out in Moria, envisaged, particularly for unaccompanied minors? Are structural solutions envisaged to the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina? What is Belgium's position on Croatia's policy of refoulement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u59	Thank you for the questions on another regrettable or rather frustrating matter which should concern us. As you may know, the place of refuge in Lipa was opened in April 2020 as a temporary solution for a thousand refugees and migrants in the region. The International Organisation for Migration was responsible for management, but recently withdrew. The Bosnian government did not fulfil its commitments to supply water and electricity. The reception conditions were not humane and certainly not adapted to winter. On 21 December 2020, High Representative Borrell and European Commissioners Johansson and Borrelli reiterated to the Bosnian authorities the need to provide immediate reception for over 3,000 refugees and migrants residing without access to basic facilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The EU promised to release additional resources and logistical support for it. Bosnia and Herzegovina would have about 8,500 refugees and migrants on its territory, of which less than 6,000 are taken care of. Because the quality of the asylum procedure in Bosnia is inadequate, it is not possible to give reliable figures on the number of asylum seekers who would have already applied for asylum in Greece. Since 2018, the EU has given some €85.5 million to Bosnia and Herzegovina to support it in its migration management, including €13.8 million to humanitarian aid refugees and migrants on the territory. For a new reception centre in Bihac, the EU had already foreseen €3.5 million in September 2020. On 3 January, the European Commission promised an additional €3.5 million for immediate humanitarian aid to the affected migrants. Although the Bosnian government has approved the opening of a new structure in Bihac, local authorities are blocking its opening. The relocation of migrants to another region was then stopped by the central government on 29 December. The problem therefore does not seem to be the means, because the resources from Europe have come many times, but the attitude of the Bosnian authorities. I agree that this situation is unacceptable. The High Representative Borrell made a clear appeal to the Bosnian authorities shortly after the fire of 23 December to deal with the situation immediately and to open up a new reception structure for migrants without delay. The European delegation in Sarajevo and the members of the Bosnian Government met on 2 January and called for a long-term solution. To answer questions from Messrs. Rigot and Moutquin, as migrants are outside the European Union, no plan for their distribution or relocation has been negotiated by the Union - as was organised for Moria. Having said that, I hope that the EU will continue to exert pressure and provide financial and logistical support so that migrants can be welcomed to the centres very quickly and that Bosnia will put an end to this inhuman situation. The European Union has already stated that the Bosnian attitude will undoubtedly have an impact on the ongoing accession talks with Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is an important element. The resources are there, as are political exchanges, but at some point it is important that each country takes responsibility. It is always good to look at resettlement and relocation, but it is also important to check that every country in the European Union complies with the rules that should apply internationally. In this respect, we need to look at how best to make it clear to these countries that they must comply with these rules. Taking into account the current situation when Bosnia and Herzegovina joins the European Union, it seems to me that it is not wise. In fact, it's essential. The European Commission's opinion of May 2019 sets out 14 priorities. One of them is that the protection of migrants, asylum seekers, displaced persons and refugees, among others, needs to be improved before it becomes possible to get closer to the EU. That was already stated in the opinion of 2019. Belgium has always supported this. The Belgian representative on the ground is closely following developments and has repeatedly insisted in the talks that Bosnia and Herzegovina should not only comply with the reception obligation, but that it should also improve the asylum procedure. Foreign Affairs tells me to plan a discussion on this with the Ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Brussels. I suggest that you address Mr Wilmès for further details. Mr Moutquin, to answer your question about Croatia's migration policy, I repeat what I told you at the Committee on 20 November. We expect the European Commission to continue to take action against possible violations of European rules in Croatia. It is clear that we expect each Member State to respect the rights of migrants in its territory. Yes, we can see what we can do as a Belgian state. We must stand in solidarity with any Member State. However, it is as important as it is at European level that each Member State be made clear that it must respect the law as agreed between the Member States of the European Union. That is the message we are sending to the European level. I hope that at this level, the work that needs to be done will be done. The rules are not only for our State, but for each Member State of the European Union. I would like to answer Mr Vandenput's supplementary question and close. The German Presidency concluded with a progress report on the proposed asylum and migration pact. This is a good starting point for further discussions. It contains all the key elements of the last discussion and recognises that there are different views on solidarity and responsibility and that more work is needed. The Portuguese Presidency has already announced that it will continue the technical discussions on the texts, in which Belgium will play a constructive role. I can only hope that we will make progress at European level in the coming months. I'm not naive in that respect. I've seen how the conversations have gone over the past few months. They are sometimes frustrating and some want to go faster than others and everyone has their own vision, but I do notice that most of our approach is affectionate. The strategy that we are pursuing at European level is to try to find an incentive between these countries by working fact-based, by working with a simulation exercise and by convincing countries not to have ideological debates now, but first to look at the impact of a new European asylum and migration pact on each country. If this approach can be adopted during the period of our Portuguese colleagues, hopefully we can take a number of steps in the hope that the French colleague who then takes over will be able to use those steps to take the major steps that need to be taken. It's a long-term work, with a lot of frustrations, but it's the only way to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u60	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply and for the figures. It is indeed a tragedy and I am glad to hear that the reception of asylum seekers and refugees is also one of the criteria for Bosnia to come to Europe or not. In the end, you are right to state that the only way to go is to tackle migration at European level. That is also our party's position. This must be done at European level and not at country level, otherwise we will end up in the same catastrophe as in 2015. We will monitor the roll-out of this European Asylum and Migration Pact. The important mediation role played by Belgium in the situation you are describing is extremely important in order to achieve this. Our country has experience of this and I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u61	Mr. Secretary of State, the painting you depict is a dramatic picture. We are all aware of the humanitarian cataclysm that is taking place in Bosnia, when this country, as a candidate for the EU, is adopting a completely unacceptable attitude. As you point out, we're going to have to be firm about this candidate for the EU because we take all of its values or we don't enter. This is for the medium and long term, i.e. the conditions for entry into Europe. Today, we are witnessing a humanitarian crisis, a cataclysm that affects men, women, children, in an area where the temperature is around this week between +5°C and -10°C at night and we do not have an answer. I am well aware that Belgium alone cannot respond to this situation and to all the problems that may arise at the door of the EU, but in any case Belgium must be the driving force behind concerted action at European level. It must push the debate to move forward faster, and it must now also reach out, make a humanitarian gesture, mobilize the teams to go there. We cannot now take refuge behind our inability to implement a migration policy when other countries do not. I think that women and men are dying now, just as I speak to you, and that is a question and a problem for me. I hope that you can send a strong message to your European colleagues and certainly through your colleague Wimès. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, which I will call ambitious and pragmatic at the same time. The morning showed us this: we take note of the findings of the failure of the European migration policy as it currently stands. We will have an opportunity to discuss what is proposed, but I think it is certain that we will need an answer on this. After all, all proportions kept, we still have to have these figures in mind: we are 447 million Europeans - since 1 January, Britain is no longer a member of the European Union - and 1 300 people have lost shelter in Bosnia, in Lipa. This shows once again the indecency of this European policy, which has no solution for 1,300 people. For once, and I would like to applaud the European Union, there has been no hypocrisy. The 1,300 people in Lipa were told: "You are not in the European Union. Get on with it!" In other words, and I'm sorry to say so flatly: "Go fuck yourself!" It is therefore an end to non-receiving that was given to the IOM Director who shouted his dismay and called for a political response. In my opinion, it must be denounced. The hypocrisy of the European Union exaggerates me when it congratulates Croatia, a candidate member of the Schengen area, on keeping its borders well, while at the same time moving away from the situation of refugees and migrants in Bosnia. It is very good for the European Union to make it conditional on respect for migration values and policy, and we should also raise some fundamental rights issues with regard to Member States such as Hungary, but the work must also be done with regard to Croatia. For going to Bosnia, I see two types of population. The first group does not fall within the scope of the Geneva Convention - a debate will have to be organised around this topic. The second includes people who have registered in Greece - which is why I do not join you when you claim that the European Union is not concerned - who are waiting for the European Union to process their application for asylum, whereas they have sometimes signed a paper without understanding what it was, and who find themselves subject to the Dublin regime. They therefore continue their migration route by leaving the European Union to return again. In short, we return to Greece's difficulties in its ability to deal with all requests and, consequently, the need for a European solidarity mechanism. I stop here and thank you for all the answers you have given this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda now contains a whole series of questions from Mrs Van Camp. The Secretary of State can stay with us for half an hour to answer questions. It may be an idea, but I cannot force you to refer to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to refer to my question, but I still have a supplement. In the press it appeared that the illegal centre in Bruges was closed after a corona outbreak, after you assured us that all measures were taken against it. How did this happen? What additional measures will be taken to prevent such outbreaks in this centre and other centres? Rumors are that there has recently been a large-scale corona outbreak in the offices of Fedasil in Brussels. Do you know anything about that? Can you confirm those rumors?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u65	Mrs Van Camp, I am pleased that you are asking the question about the closure of the closed centre in Bruges. After all, I am very pleased with the work our services have done on this dossier in recent days. Unfortunately, it is true that the covid virus sometimes creeps where it cannot go and that is why this centre was closed on 21 December. The residents were collected and quarantined in other centres, in consultation with the center doctors and in accordance with the relevant rules. On 4 and 5 January the residents were transferred to Bruges again from the repatriation centre 127bis and from the centre at Merksplas. If I'm not mistaken, it was yesterday and the day before yesterday. From now on, new residents can also be detained. By the way, no one was released. That too was not easy in these corona times where we still have to take a number of additional measures. We have been able to ensure, especially through the good and innovative work of our services, that everything has gone well and that these people have been reassigned to Bruges since yesterday and the day before yesterday. Since the beginning of the crisis, all possible measures have been taken to prevent outbreaks in centres as close as possible. I always say, as good as I can. I can understand why you are sometimes surprised that there is a covid outbreak here or there. I am also always surprised that this is happening, but it is in the virtually impossible struggle we have to do to combat the virus everywhere. We'll do it as best we can. The capacity of the centres was reduced by half in order to guarantee social distancing. New residents are being quarantined and tested. The possibilities of receiving visits were greatly reduced, or even temporarily discontinued, according to generally applicable standards. The sanitary measures were and are made clear to all staff and residents. This is communicated in several languages, both orally and in writing. Where necessary, plexiglas was also installed to ensure that the calls run safely. The temperature of visitors is measured upon entry. Some centres have also appointed a corona coordinator to follow closely the policy on corona. By the way, I've been on the scene in the last few days. I was in Merksplas yesterday and I was able to see with my own eyes that the staff of the closed centres are doing what they can to avoid outbreaks and to switch over very quickly each time. There is also a corona coordinator in Bruges who has done a very good job. I would like to thank our services there once again for the way in which they have done good work in very difficult times and have made sure that the outbreak, which has been effective in the CIB, has been stopped by temporarily moving people to Merksplas and 127bis, among others. Despite these measures, there has unfortunately been an outbreak in the centre, in which both residents and staff were infected. At present, extensive measures are already being made available to both the residents and the staff of the closed centres. The current very strict measures are maintained and we are ensuring that everyone abides by the rules at all times. We therefore hope to be relieved of corona as soon as possible in order to be able to roll out the work in the closed centers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, I do not think this is a reassuring answer at all. After all, you say that all possible measures have been taken but that an outbreak can happen. If there was an infection, it is clear that the appropriate measures have not been taken and that something has actually gone wrong. How could anyone have been tested if there had been an outbreak of this magnitude? I find it strange that no additional measures are being taken or that the policy is not being changed. Personally, I'd do it differently. As far as the rumors of Fedasil's contagion are concerned, you clearly do not want to answer them yet. We will therefore submit this question by appropriate means so that we can get an answer to it. Mr President, I would like to postpone my other questions until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u67	It'll speed things up. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55011901C, 1755011902C, 1855011934C and 1955011933C by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp are postponed. Mrs Van Camp, for the record, your question No. 55011932 on shorter procedures and faster return has indeed been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u69	Mr President, Mr Segers, with regard to the disappearance of unaccompanied minors outside the office hours, such as those of the two brothers Alami, the Voogdij Department is empowered to contact the competent authorities, i.e. the Crisis Point, Fedasil and so on, to find a suitable shelter. In the case of the Alami brothers, the observation and orientation centre (OOC) of Lower Over-Heembeek was contacted. The reception centres of Steenokkerzeel and Neder-Over-Heembeek regularly catch minors under the age of 16 and are registered by the Voogdij department outside office hours. If there is a suspicion of trafficking in human beings, the Voogdij department will contact the specialised department itself. For unaccompanied minors who are registered at Fedasil during office hours and are under 13 years of age or who are suspected of trafficking in human beings, Fedasil always contacts Minor Ndako or Esperanto himself. To date, there is no formal agreement between Fedasil and the Voogdij department that unaccompanied minors under a certain age should be notified directly to Youth Assistance. After the stay in the observation and orientation centre, the minors are oriented towards the most adapted shelter. This could be a Fedasil reception centre, but it could also be a Fedasil co-financed place in youth aid. For the figures requested, different data sources need to be consulted and consolidated, so I regret to have to refer you to the possibility of submitting a written question and then I am happy to give you those figures. Fedasil is legally competent for the reception of all unaccompanied minors at an initial observation and orientation phase. I am convinced that very young minors are better placed in youth aid and can enjoy a more adapted reception. In fact, in an observation and orientation centre in Fedasil, minors live in groups of up to 80 young people and the average age is between 15 and 16 years. So I am asking you to strengthen cooperation with all relevant actors, including Youth Assistance, and to create appropriate places for specific profiles of minors. Enhanced cooperation between Fedasil and Youth Aid can be seen in the context of the Disappearances Working Group, which will be restarted next week. The handcuffs of minors are a practice that is regularly reported by Fedasil. Police are always asked to take the handcuffs before entering the reception centre or the registration centre. That was also the case with the Alami brothers. It is also necessary to create a safe atmosphere when the minor arrives at the shelter. Handcuffs do not work in the hands of that safe atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u70	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive answer. I have two brief observations to make. Firstly, I acknowledge that the competence of principle lies with the Justice Department, in particular with the Voogdij Department. They're supposed to be in charge. Secondly, I hope and know that, from your powers, you will do everything you can to close the loopholes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u71	- Malik Ben Achour in Sammy Mahdi (Asile, Migration and National Lottery) on "International protection of whistleblowers" (55012076C)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u72	- Malik Ben Accour to Sammy Mahdi (Asiel, Migration and National Lottery) on "International protection of whistleblowers" (55012076C)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u73	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best. Everyone is aware of the situation of Mr. Assange, who is in solitary confinement and who is still detained in London under conditions described by the United Nations Special Rapporteur as being tantamount to torture. In an answer to a topical question, Minister Wilmès had expressed her concerns in this regard and had not ruled out that the subject should be dealt with in diplomatic relations with Great Britain. Although the British courts decided on 4 January 2021 not to extradite Mr. Assange to the United States where he would face a sentence of 175 years' imprisonment, this decision being still subject to appeal, Mr. Assange remained potentially subject to extradition. My question is very simple and is about your competence in granting a humanitarian visa. It is a discretionary competence of the government and therefore of the Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary of State, could you consider granting him such a visa or any other protection to escape extradition to the United States? If so, what would be the modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u74	Mr President, Secretary of State, I wish you a happy New Year. On Monday, January 4, 2021, British justice decided not to comply with the request by the United States for the extradition of the whistleblower Julian Assange. This is news that all the advocates of freedom of expression, international transparency and the protection of whistleblowers are looking forward to. However, Mr Assange's state of health, particularly psychologically, remains a matter of great concern, according to his supporters – indeed, this was the reason for the British court's decision – and questions still arise about his conditions of detention in the United Kingdom. I will also ask Minister Wilmès about this in the Committee on External Relations. In this context, some argue for the granting of an international protection status for Mr Assange, and a humanitarian visa to enable him to apply to our territory. Secretary of State, can you give us your views on this eventuality?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u75	Mr President, honourable Members, the competent British judge ruled on 4 January that Mr Assange could not be extradited to the United States, as you said. However, an appeal is still possible, so extradition remains an option. It is important to wait until this deadline has expired before moving forward in any direction, in any case as far as my British colleagues are concerned. I will repeat the answer I have already given at the last committee meeting, if I am not mistaken. To date, I have not received any questions from Mr. Assange or his defence with a view to obtaining a residence permit in our country. It is therefore a discussion that remains hypothetical today, because there is no visa application. As I have pointed out in several files, whether it is the case of someone with a high profile or others, every request, regardless of its origin, will always be treated objectively. If that request were to take place, we would treat it as objectively as possible. As long as this is not the case, I cannot move on to a hypothetical discussion, and especially not knowing that recourse is always possible. We still need to be careful, in such cases, not to move too fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u76	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I can only congratulate you on your transparency in the granting of humanitarian visas. In the past, we had the impression that humanitarian visas had been given to people who had not specifically applied for them. I take note of the logic that you wish to recall and introduce. We will try to ensure that Mr Assange's defenders, if ever he can be released on bail, which should possibly be possible, or not, today, be kept informed of the possibility of applying for such a humanitarian visa. We shall therefore discuss it, if necessary, at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-06-definitief-55-commissie-ic322x.u77	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer. Indeed, as you said, the possibility of an appeal is an important element. I think I have read that this would be the case, and that an appeal would be brought against this decision. I note from your answer that the possibility of a humanitarian visa is not excluded. You say that you are not seized, but at the same time, you do not exclude the possibility that Belgium may one day position itself in this case. I think it is useful to reflect on how Belgium, committed to freedom of information and fundamental rights, can position itself on this issue of whistleblowers. Yesterday, the Mexican President said he was ready to offer asylum to Mr. Assange. Attention should also be paid to how the United States, and particularly the new President Biden, will position itself on this issue. I recall that when Mr.Biden was Vice-President of President Obama, the U.S. government decided not to pursue Wikileaks and its founder. This is also part of the data that will allow the file to evolve, and therefore perhaps the Belgian posture to evolve in parallel as well.
