ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u1	Colleagues, welcome to everyone. With the technical problems solved, we will be able to start our work this afternoon. Our committee is fortunate to have Beliris in its powers and we are fortunate to have the minister in charge of Beliris among us for an exchange of views on the cooperation agreement and the projects of this honourable institution. At the beginning of the legislature, we had interesting and high-quality debates on the policy note, the policy note. Today, it is at the request of some colleagues and of the minister that she presents here the cooperation agreement and the projects. Madam Minister, I now give you the floor. The services will make a report. There is therefore no rapporteur. I hope that we can recover our two colleagues who were on video conferencing. Slowly, we are beginning to have a few colleagues present. At the very beginning of the meeting, I was just telling the minister at the end of the meeting that there were many called but few elected, according to Guy Bedos' formula. We will allow our colleagues to re-enter the meeting by video conferencing before starting. Anja Vanrobaeys and Tim Vandenput are present. Madam Minister, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u2	Mr President, I am delighted to finally be with you to present the fourteenth amendment to the cooperation agreement of 15 September 1993 between the Federal Government and the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region. Since 1993, this support from the federal government for the Brussels-Capital Region has grown, particularly under this legislature. Indeed, as you know, we obtained the indexation of this fund, which had not been indexed since 2013. In addition to the Fund's indexation, under the Recovery Plan we have also obtained additional resources of EUR 50 million for various projects. On 8 May 2021, the eight Ministers of the Cooperation Committee approved the Federal Fund's investment programme for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. Annex 14 is a shared ambition of the federal government and the regional government, which has been established in good cooperation and puts Brussels at the centre again, which has not been the case in recent years. The table of the programme adopted by Amendment No. 14 has been made available to you. It includes amounts as at 1 January 2020 not yet committed and carried forward as well as estimated amounts of food in 2020, 2021 and 2022. This amendment therefore covers a budget of EUR 845 million. This programme, of course, makes it possible to finance new initiatives, which I will present to you, which will be able to promote and promote the international role of Brussels and its role as capital. For the sake of clarity, the projects are divided into five chapters in Annex 14. The first chapter proposes mobility projects. The first is the renewed support for the project of a new metro line between the North Station and Bordet in Evere, including the construction of a depot in Haren, which alone represents 20% of the total budget. Secondly, substantial funding has also been provided for the construction of foot and bike paths along the railway lines, for the construction of the cycle path on the Lambermontlaan and for the redesign of the Guldenvlaan between the Louise Square and the Naamsepoort. In view of the projects in this chapter and the projects with mobility gaps in the other chapters, this programme contains a greater share of mobility projects than the previous programmes. 39 % of the total budget of Beliris and 55% of the new funds are earmarked for mobility projects, as provided for in the government agreement. I would like to take advantage of the presentation of this chapter to answer Mr Scourneau's oral question concerning the study of the extension of the metro line 3 south of Brussels. First of all, it seems to me necessary to recontextualise the mission of Beliris as part of the extension of the metro to Brussels. If it is correct, as you have read on the metro3.be site, that Beliris, in close cooperation with STIB, assumes the delegated task of managing the studies and works of the extension of line 3 to the north of Brussels, it seems to me gallvaudé to speak of the extension of the metro to the south. Indeed, in accordance with the request of STIB and the Brussels-Capital Region, the aim of the study envisaged by Beliris is to examine the possibilities available for improving the service of high-performance public transport to the south of Brussels. If metro is one of the possible alternatives, it is not the only one. Other options, such as optimising existing rail infrastructure, but also tram, alone or in combination with other developments, will need to be considered. As far as the progress of this study is concerned, the tenders of the bidding offices are being analysed and the award of this contract should take place before the end of this year in order to be able to start the study itself at the beginning of 2022. The second chapter presents projects of revitalization and urban development, such as support for the purchase of land or buildings deemed essential for the development of the Brussels Region. There is also support for certain urban renewal contracts and for the development by the Brussels-Capital Region of these priority areas. You know them: the Josaphat zone, the Reyers zone and the Biestebroeck zone. It still contains projects that are consistent with the commitments made in previous amendments for the finalization of existing neighbourhood contracts. It should also be noted that Beliris no longer supports existing neighbourhood contracts since 2015. This chapter finally contains substantial support for the renovation of social housing for an amount of more than €68 million. The third chapter brings together projects in the fields of culture, sport and heritage. We find renewed support for Bozar and the Royal Muntschouwburg, as well as additional resources for the continuation of the restoration of the Royal Conservatory of Brussels. These resources have allowed the project to be unblocked so that the urban permit can be submitted in the course of 2022. New projects are emerging with the restoration of the Laeken Royal Serres Winter Garden, the renovation of the Atomium, support for Molenbeek's cultural, artistic and creative production centre, and the acquisition of the Van Eetvelde Hotel, a jewel of art nouveau, which can then be opened to the public and which will be a new tourist attraction for Brussels. New funding has also been provided for new sports infrastructure projects in Koekelberg, Evere and Ukkel, in the latter case with a new national hockey stadium. We will also find the necessary resources to complete the renovations of the Neptunium pool in Schaerbeek and the Ixelles classified pool. The fourth chapter is devoted to public space and green space projects supported by the Fund. This chapter includes projects such as the Place Royale, Parc du Cinquantenaire, Parc de Forest, Parc du quai Béco, and Parcs Duden and Jupiter already present in previous amendments, but with complementary means for their continuation. The new projects include the construction of an ecoduct on the Terhulpensesteenweg, following the example of the ecoduct that Flanders built over the Brussels Ring in Groenendaal. There is also considerable support for the creation of a recreation centre in Neerpede and a project to reduce the quays along the canal. The fifth and final chapter covers the investment of the fund in economic and training infrastructure, such as the Knowledge Centre for Construction, Technicity.brussels and the Learning and Innovation Center shared by VUB and ULB. I am particularly proud that Beliris is funding these projects. These projects will enable Brusselsers to receive training for bottlenecks in the construction sector or in STEM directions. In addition to this programme, additional resources have been obtained under the European Recovery Plan. An important investment tool in the construction and related sectors, a major provider of jobs, Beliris is better able to be used for recovery. The EUR 50 million obtained will be used to finance the renovation of the Robert Schuman roundabout and part of the rue de la Loi, the construction site of a cyclopi astonishment along the railway line No 28 between Schaerbeek and Anderlecht, as well as part of the restoration work of the Stock Exchange. I would like to take this opportunity to answer an oral question from Mr Defossé concerning this request for additional resources and the choice of projects. First of all, these are many ways in which, as I have already said, the Beliris Fund has been allocated. The projects I have selected – from several others – that have been submitted to the government were obviously chosen by the government as a whole and then brought to the European level. They could be integrated because they were already well advanced, within the framework of urban and other permit plans, and it is known how much the projects we have presented at the level of the recovery plan must be carried out within an extremely short period of time for public space development projects. The selected funding projects are, first of all, mobility projects. This is particularly the case at the Schuman roundabout. The same is true of the cyclopi Surprise track along line 28 between Schaerbeek and Anderlecht. The "Bourse" project was chosen to develop a new tourist attraction in Brussels. We know how much this type of project works in cities renowned for their beers such as Amsterdam. I cannot tell you what the 50 million will go to; they have been dispatched in other projects as part of Addendum 14. There is no specific list of projects. With regard to the projects that were ultimately not retained, the money was maintained in the context of amendment 14. Non-registered projects include the Place Royale, because everything is done, the permit arrives and is in the public inquiry, and the redevelopment of the abbey of Forest as a cultural pole. The means, both for the Place Royale (six million) and for the Abbey of Forest (sixteen million) were entered in the framework of the Addendum 14. This €50 million frees up more resources. Some of you will certainly point out to me that it includes over 80 project lines, some of which have small budgets, and they will tell me that the funds are too fragmented. However, the smallness of the budgets does not automatically mean that they are small projects. These funds are often needed to complete or close projects, or to launch projects through studies that do not necessarily cost a lot of money, but which will lead to greater investment. In addition, there is an effect of small projects to put into perspective with the projects or plans of which they are part. For example, the project to lower the docks along the canal for a budget of €275,000 is a small project that could be assimilated to a sprinkler at the level of the means, but it must be seen as complementary to a larger development also managed by Beliris, namely the development of the Béco wharf up to €11 million and the construction of the Suzan Daniel bridge up to €9.5 million. It is, in fact, only an addition to large-scale projects. Beyond the five chapters described above, this amendment must be read in a cross-sectional manner in order to understand the coherence of the investments made. The latest projects mentioned – Quai Béco, Pont Suzan Daniel, the lowering of the docks or the subside to the redevelopment of Picard Street – show Beliris' support for the development of an area along the canal that really needs it in order to promote and sustain the installation of businesses, administrations and housing. It is therefore economic support in Brussels in a wider way. The Canal Plan, for example, represents 80 million euros. The same applies to mobility projects which appear to be scattered throughout the region, but which fit within the Good Move Regional Mobility Plan in which each of the projects takes place and is coherent. I will conclude this presentation by saying that this amendment 14 reflects for me the very essence of the Fund's objectives: to promote and promote the international role and the role of Brussels' capital through structuring projects, supporting active and inclusive regional mobility policies, an urban development with a human face, making the Region a city where it is good to live and work, to come as a tourist, but also where the Bruxellois, who remain the first ambassadors of our beautiful capital, feel good.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this presentation and for all these beautiful projects included in this and future projects. The Minister has already answered the two attached questions on the agenda. Each colleague may, if he wishes, reply or return to a particular point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u4	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your presentation. Like you, I'm a little disappointed that it's only coming now when the 22 amendment was presented to the press on the 26th of May, if I'm not mistaken. So almost five months ago. Similarly, my question, which was attached to this debate itself, dates back to April. She wasn't even on the extranet anymore, that is, how old she was! I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your answers to this question. Fortunately, I was able to find many answers to my questions in the regional press, as your colleague Thomas Dermine explained his work on the various issues in Beliris in connection with the recovery plan. It is still a bit frustrating, as a parliamentarian, when things take so long. I know it's normal, Mr. Chairman, that we don't have a meeting for a question. We're not going to get the minister to move around for that, and that's quite understandable. I hope, on the other hand, that this does not demonstrate a lack of interest on the part of our colleagues on this issue. Beliris is very important, and as Brusselsis, in particular, I feel it very strong. Let's close the parenthesis and get to the bottom! I welcome a number of projects listed in Addendum 14 such as, for example, the bridge that sets up the swimming pond and recreational facilities under the ring, and that installs noise-resistant walls, particularly at the level of Pede. I am also very pleased to see the budget extensions of projects already under way. I am in a hurry, like many Brusselsers, to finally see the achievements. I am thinking of the Cinquantenaire Park and the amenities on the outskirts of the Wiels Marsh, as well as the recreational park at the Béco wharf. Another emblematic project seems to me to be the maintenance of the railway service at the foreport to Schaerbeek Formation. The budget for this amendment is obviously limited; it covers only studies at this stage, if I understand correctly. But this is an opportunity to act via the port, in favor of mobility that is really multi-modal and sustainable for the transport of goods. This must be thought of in connection with the development of a future economic hub on Schaerbeek Training, oriented circular economy and transition economy, i.e. the economies of the future. I'm not a great athlete. However, the creation of a national hockey stadium in Uccle is important for the image of Brussels. This summer, thanks to our Red Lions, we were able to see the wonderful lighting that this discipline can bring to Belgian sport. It is the duty of the authorities to show their support and participation in this project, and therefore the international influence that this can generate for Brussels and Belgium. That is why I would like to know exactly what is going on with this project today. Moreover, the project of the Ecopont of the forest of Soignes, at the level of the road of La Hulpe, gives a very interesting signal that is part of a real policy of ecological meshing. Can you tell me exactly what the 800,000 euros in question cover? After study, is this project guaranteed? I also note that amounts are being spent on the renovation of social housing. This is, if I am not mistaken, about 38 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u5	In fact, it is about EUR 68 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u6	Please excuse my mistake, Madam Minister. The amount I quoted actually seemed to me to be low. An ambitious renovation policy is needed in Brussels, given the state of social housing and the difficulties of obtaining it. As a reminder, 49,000 households are waiting for social housing. It still represents one in ten Brusselsers, which is considerable. However, it seems to me that specific amounts are already foreseen for renovation in the regional budget. Of course, the federal government has no jurisdiction over housing. My question is whether, through the federal government, the goal is to accelerate regional housing policies. In this way, is this not likely to be done at the expense of more cross-cutting assignments? I am thinking here, for example, of parks and mobility. Again with regard to mobility, you have addressed the issue of metro 3 and its extension – I was talking about the north, you have spoken about the south – and I see that the amounts are the same as those previously planned, namely 50 million a year. However, we know that this type of infrastructure, partly oriented towards commuters, has a relatively small impact on modal reporting. There is therefore no significant contribution to improving public space, which leads me to question the relevance of this project. On the other hand - this is a general reflection - the federal involvement, together with Beliris as the contractor of the northern section, is not an opportunity to give guarantees of compliance with the deadlines for this project. We know what can happen to work of this magnitude. Can you give us these guarantees? With regard to the South extension, I hear your answer to Mr Scourneau. You also have a series of questions about this and I am reassured to hear you mention the priority of optimising existing and surface transport, because we know the difficulties of extending a metro, especially of this size, the lack of density of the South, the obvious desire to leave space for the car, the cost of course, the duration of the work, etc. Those who come to the south of Brussels, as I sometimes do, are familiar with the already important offer of transport, especially trams. There's six or seven tram lines in Uccle, I think. They are of course radial and therefore head towards the centre and penetrate it, which is a problem and may not always meet the needs. I believe, however, that the Region is focusing on the short-term improvements to the current STIB network, among other things, in order to release trams stuck in transport, particularly road transport. I therefore hope that the work to be carried out by Beliris will be complementary to that carried out by the Minister for Mobility of Brussels. I wanted to know what collaboration exists on this subject between Beliris, and so you, and her. One last point before stopping – excuse me but the subject of Beliris is exciting – is the lack of greenery. The pandemic has shown, if needed, that the greenness of our Brussels citizens is much lacking and that the health risks associated with promiscuity, density and insecurity are greater. So what is Beliris' contribution to strengthening the supply of green spaces in densely populated neighbourhoods? In my view, this should be a priority, especially since more green spaces and fewer thermal engines are also part of a global health policy in reality. It is known that there are more health problems in precarised neighbourhoods. One reason is that these neighbourhoods have been left without sustainable mobility and land-use policies, leading to severe respiratory problems and aggravated by the pandemic. That is for my reflections at this stage, Madam Minister. I would add that I fully agree with you: the Brussels are indeed the best ambassadors in our capital. We need to improve their living conditions to improve the image of Brussels outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u7	I assure you of the interest of this committee in Beliris. I said it in the preamble. At the beginning of the legislature, we had a good debate on the policy and policy note, which clearly showed the interest of each of the groups in these very concrete projects for everyone. As a non-sporting person, I thought I would compare you to Churchill, who answered when asked about his longevity: "Sport! Never sport!" So you have a future ahead of you!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u8	Fortunately, I don't have the same alcohol consumption as him!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u9	That's another point. It was for the end of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u10	Mr President, I was late, but I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u11	Okay, that's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u12	Madam Minister, first of all, thank you. I recall having participated in these discussions at the time of the presentation of the policy note. We can consider that we could have benefited from the presentation of this amendment. But I am delighted because the last amendment was presented in 2018, three years ago. Since 2018, we have not known much, unfortunately, at the level of Beliris. There have been blockages to the detriment of Brussels. It did indeed require political will to put everyone around the table, Brussels and members of the federal government, to succeed and continue to build, either what already existed or by bringing new projects. This is done since this amendment was renegotiated as soon as you took office. It was renegotiated with indexation as indicated. These are complementary means to the benefit of Brussels, its influence and the Brussels people. You have the same definition as I do for the Brussels people: everyone is welcome to Brussels, whether or not people are resident, from the moment they lay their feet, and want to have fun, work or live there. In this case these people are Brusselsish for us and they must feel good about it. It is through this that it is important to discuss these Beliris files, eighty lines, as you mentioned. You have to do it on lines of strength. Mobility takes a large part (39%) with necessary projects and at the forefront of which is the Brussels metro, with an additional contribution within the framework of the food 2022 of 50 million, to bring the total project to 170 million. But it's not just the subway. There is the cycling ring road, the famous line 28 which will intervene, and the entire network along the railway tracks, for 28 million registered. There is still the road improvements, which will make the part of multimodality to allow precisely to soothe the whole and to make a less part of the car. It will be necessary to say and consider that public transport is a priority and that an investment in it must be made. Then come the alternative or so-called active arrangements, each of which has its own definition, which will make it possible to enjoy the city even better and to move better in Brussels. Next to this and next to the phenomena of mobility, you have the environment of life. This living environment is important because, as you know, there are two priorities: public spaces and green spaces, but there is also everything about urban regeneration. When we combine the two, namely the 75 million public spaces and green spaces and the 224 million urban regeneration, we actually come to a budget of 300 million for the living environment, i.e. a budget almost as large as that allocated to mobility operations, i.e. 40% to develop the living environment of the Brussels people. In the context of living in Brussels, there are indeed public spaces and green spaces but, through urban regeneration, it is also lines of public spaces and green spaces that are contained in a whole series of programmes, including programmes to support urban renewal contracts, and I am passing by. And in that, an important aspect, and you did it: 25 million for social housing. Yes, 25 million more food, a total of 69 million for social housing. It is therefore a significant contribution to the rendition of 2022 and brings the interest in social housing to 69 million. Perhaps some people will say that they have already heard this in the past and that it does not contribute to the influence of Brussels, but we consider – and I think you consider – that housing policy and investment policy for the benefit of well-being and decent living must also go through a policy that invests in our housing, public housing, in order to enable all Brusselsers to have decent housing and to realize their right to housing, but also to realize our own environmental objectives. Indeed, through investments in social housing – and we know that in Brussels, the two main drivers of greenhouse gas emissions are mobility and housing – these are environmental investments, and this is the translation of the objectives that you set yourself within these environmental targets to ensure decent housing, but also isolated housing, so that all can contribute to these greenhouse reduction targets by 2035 and 2050. Through this there are also other and ambitious policies. I take the example of cultural policy. Brussels is a city that lives. Brussels is a city in which you like to walk and cultivate. These are endowments, amounts and supplementary supplies, especially for three important projects of food 2022 that I will quote: the Palace of Fine Arts, the Art Nouveau Interpretation Centre and the Mint Theatre. Our cultural infrastructure in Brussels will finally be adequately funded to enable them to live, to exist, to be maintained and to be able to radiate. When we talk about the Palace of Fine Arts or the Mint Theatre, it does not only benefit the Brussels, but it actually benefits everyone. These infrastructures will be able to radiate and offer to the people of Brussels and to all those who wish to do so this access to the culture that I know is very close to your heart. As you have indicated, there are also various projects with an economic purpose and a training purpose. It is this famous pole 5 of which we talk little, at the end of the day, but which concentrates almost 40 million euros. The projects indicated, the building skills centre, will contribute to the industrial renewal that Brussels also needs – it must not be denied. The Technicity Centre and the Tram's Ecuries will help train Brusselsers and contribute to the employment objectives in Brussels, and through this, to the fight against precariousness. For all this, together with the Socialist Group, we fully support you, Madam Minister, and we wish you every success in the future. I would add that I hope for such an ambitious agenda for the 15th.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u13	Mr Defossé, I find it remarkable that you say that Beliris is rightly supported to represent the Brussels people as better ambassadors of this city and by extending this region. Smells like segregation, to put it in South African terms. You speak in terms of Brussels citizens to the commuters, do I understand? I would also like to refer to Mr Scourneau's question, for whom I have a great deal of respect. He reveals some of the mobility problems. In particular, it concerns metro line 3 which is being extended. By means of Beliris, mobility in Brussels is being subsidised too much. Think of the Regional Expressnet and metro line 3. The Flemish Interest is a cool lover of the Beliris funds. During the long talks we had last week, Beliris didn't even come up. I find that remarkable, because money is sought everywhere, but apparently not at Beliris. We can discuss the Beliris principle, but we are highly doubtful about the ultimately funded objectives and the funds. When we see the political preferences and the financial tables, it becomes even more questionable. Apart from that, Madam Minister, we still find it strange that these funds are not being updated in the framework of the government negotiations. 'Cause what's the ultimate goal of Beliris? This objective, for which the taxpayer pays, is to polish the image of Brussels as the capital of Europe. Madam Minister, if there are three people in your government who can polish that image without Beliris funds, they are Minister of Home Affairs and Security Verlinden, Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne and Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Mahdi. They can polish the image of Brussels, Beliris funds will not change that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u14	Mr President, I thought I would speak later, but the minister was kind enough to answer a question that I asked in response to my colleague's question to the Minister of Transport in Brussels. The Commission had already replied some time ago on the subject. I wanted to be the bearer of this question on behalf of my colleague Aurélie Czekalski. Having said that, I am not Brussels, but I come here every day and, as a result, I thank my colleague who says "Bruxellois one day is Brussels always", even if you only walk there. This allows me to tell you that to come there from my municipality of Braine-l'Alleud, I would have much more facilities if the RER functioned. I saw that you were kind enough to invest 10 million euros for stops. Unfortunately, I have no clarification. But the RER is a file that keeps me busy and has been alive to me for more than 20 years. I have been a mayor of the municipality of Braine-l'Alleud for more than 20 years and it has been more than 20 years that we have been talking about the RER. It has also been more than 20 years since, each year, the RSP was postponed, even though this time, I believe, so-called virtuous budgets have been spent mainly on the preparation of line 124. But there are real problems, especially in the Community, on the RER line. In fact, at the level of the municipality of Linkebeek, there are no permits yet. I do not want to have a Community debate here; far from me this idea. But I would have liked to know, Madam Minister, whether you had any contact with all the municipalities which will be crossed by the RER in the context of the implementation of the four-lane scheme. In my municipality of Braine-l'Alleud, the most important for Line 124, the project which comprises 22 km has 11 or 12 only in my municipality. We're ready. All four tracks are made. Docks are already being built. We are waiting "more than" for the operation, but for many years already. I was wondering if a supra-municipal actor, perhaps regional, could put all the parties around the table so that an agreement could be reached that goes beyond the Walloon Region, the Flemish Region and arrives in Brussels so that we can have a date for the operation of this RER. Billions have already been made and are inoperative today. We cannot say that it is impetuous to wait for this RER for more than twenty years, but we can say that it would be pragmatic to finally see things come true. Minister, do you have any contact with Linkebeek? Do you know where we are in licensing? I don't think the investigations are even going on. This refers to this project in the medium term. What is the medium term for the RSP? If we have to get back on track in investigations, perhaps subject to appeal, which will further dilate the proceedings, can we ever expect this RSP to work? Budgets for the RPP date back to the 2000s. The administrations are working on the subject and are asking for quotes, but do we already know today, given that the prices of the materials have exploded, if we remain in envelopes of guarantee of execution? For the municipalities, the situation is dramatic with regard to the increase in the price of materials and the supply and budgets committed to carry out certain construction projects have become inoperative today because they no longer correspond to reality. Minister, do you have any margins? Did you consider this situation a few months ago? I guess at the time, we weren't talking about that explosion in the cost of materials. Is this not going to put a brake on this project, which seems to be quite ambitious? Are the 10 million committed to the RER realistic in terms of the time it will still take to build the stops you are planning?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I have a few questions and one general comment. To begin with, we are very pleased that many more projects are being launched in the mobility sector, as agreed in the government agreement. We are pleased that this is being done effectively. I have a question about the EUR 68 million for social housing. Is the money that will be used to build the public domain and parks around those homes, or is it rather a money transfer to the social housing companies themselves? Then I have a question about the ecoduct. I suppose this will be on the Terhulpensesteenweg in Watermaal-Bosvoorde. Can you confirm that? Finally, I have a suggestion, also about the territory of Watermaal-Bosvoorde. I am mayor of Hoeilaart and there the Flemish Region is currently building a bike highway. That bike highway stops at the border with the Brussels-Capital Region and I am very sorry about that. If you have a little money available, I would appreciate it if that bike highway would also be extended in Watermaal-Bosvoorde, so that the cyclists easily get into the Brussels-Capital Region. Now they will have to stop at the regional border.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u16	Madam Secretary, you stayed awake a few weeks ago until two o'clock in the morning to speak to me in plenary. I would like to apologize for being late, including Members. That's why I waited my turn humbly. However, Madam Minister, I will not surprise you entirely with my speech. Please remember my statement of 2020 during the discussion of the policy paper. At that time, I also questioned whether the Belirisants are being used to a very large extent improperly. Rather, these resources should be borne by the Brussels-Capital Region or even by local authorities. I even hear your colleague from the majority asking a critical question about social housing, for example. I also indicated last time that I have absolutely nothing against social housing. In this respect, the public authorities have a role to play. But does it have to do with this pot of money? I don't think so. Whether training or certain sports infrastructures, there are many questions to be asked about the allocation of funds which have little to do with the historic objective of the Beliri Fund. That's obvious. Your note also made it very clear that the historic objective is to contribute to the improvement of the appearance and image of Brussels as a capital and international city. In that story and in your table there are a number of points that I do not question at all. I will go into this in a little more detail. However, with all due respect, I am questioning a lot of things. The fear of improper use is confirmed here again. After all, a lot of resources do not have the purpose they should or should not be invested in the business in which they should be invested. So I am not talking about your first chapter on mobility. There will be many commuters working in Brussels. In addition, there are many tourists, expats and so on. The accessibility of Brussels is a problem. EUR 292 million is invested in a number of mobility projects. I still have the least of my problems with that. A number of things are justified. I would like to make the necessary nuance in the argument. The second chapter on urban renewal and development includes items 2.11.1 and 2.11.2 for the purchase of land and buildings in the Heyvaert district and elsewhere. In that district in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek one wants to build the Klein Zennepark, but that seems more like a neighborhood park. Sint-Jans-Molenbeek is a municipality where commuters, civil servants, expats and tourists stay relatively little. I don't go there every day, but it doesn't seem like the hotspot. However, EUR 4.3 million will be spent on this. What exactly does the more than EUR 37 million of item 2.11.2 serve? Item 2.23 for urban renewal contracts amounts to over EUR 19 million. What does that include in concrete terms? Items 2.24, 2.25 and 2.27 for the Josaphatsite amount to more than 24 million euros. For Biestebroek 10 million euros are provided. Then there's the West Station and all that. If you add up those sums, it's about a lot of money. A budget is provided for the conversion of an industrial neighborhood to a residential area with neighbourhood infrastructure and greenery. The question arises as to whether this does not fall within the competence of the Brussels-Capital Region or the municipalities. I am not talking about the change to a media district (Reyers) of heading 2.26, with a public and residential function. What is specifically covered by item 4.1 'The neighbourhood contracts' for 32 million euros? On point 4.4 on the renovation of social housing, Mr Vandenput has already asked a very fair question. It has also been answered when looking at the budget: over EUR 68 million. I do not think that amount only serves the greenery and the permanence of such a social housing area. Of this pot of about EUR 225 million, we are questioning EUR 196 million: are these sums being used correctly? The third chapter on culture, sport and heritage contains posts for churches (Saint Catherine Church, Laeken, Koekelberg, Trinity Church). In my own region there are also many beautiful churches that need to be renovated and maintained. In my region, the municipalities have to pay for this, and of course they cannot count on additional funding from the Belirispot. Together, this will cost some EUR 7.5 million. A lot of cultural heritage and heritage can be understood. Among other things, for the Abbey of Prince and the Abbey of Chambers. After all, they do have a public function. You will find that I am doing my best to keep the necessary nuance in the story, Madam Secretary. As far as sport infrastructure is concerned, you are talking about a national hockey stage of EUR 7.5 million. Whether I love it or not doesn't matter. It is about a national stage there, so I can put that in a little bit. But for the rest, 16 million euros for sports infrastructure? Other regions have to hurt themselves for their sports infrastructure, and make policy choices themselves. Of the pot under Chapter 3, more than 160 million euros, a large part, a thick 23 million euros, can be questioned. Chapter 4 deals with public space and green areas. I do not want to be too strict there, but there are also questions about the resources for neighbourhood greens and neighbourhood parks, EUR 4.5 million. This is different from investment in large city parks such as the Zoniënwoud and so on, which I can understand. It is also good that the Brussels-Capital Region wants to use an ecoduct. That has already been raised by Mr Vandenput. Other regions also use ecoducts, but they pay for them themselves. Here again we are talking about EUR 800,000 in funding from the Belirispot. In short, of the more than EUR 75 million in Chapter 4, 5 million can be questioned and, in our view, may be used improperly. Chapter 5 deals with economic infrastructure and training infrastructure. That is a purely regional competence. It shouldn't be funded through the Belirispot. Finally, Chapter 7, miscellaneous, concerns more than EUR 54 million. That's not nothing. Could you just point out where those resources are going? If one makes the sum, one can see that one third of the funds can be called into question. Of the EUR 281 million of EUR 845 million, we really do have questions. We believe that these are not used in the context of Beliris' historic objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u17	Madam Minister, you have heard all the concerns, comments and questions raised by my fellow Members. You will now have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u18	Colleagues, thank you for your comments and questions. I will respond in a comprehensive way and then more precisely. Compared to mobility as a whole, the government agreement provides for an increase in investment: 39 % in total and 55 % of new means are invested in mobility. As Mr Aouasti said, this is mobility in all its dimensions. Regarding metro line 3, Mr. Defossé, I am astonished at your question as to its relevance. Ecolo-Groen provided the Minister of Mobility within the Region. She was with me at all the press conferences and just confirmed the relevance of this line. This project will be guaranteed. Beliris will be the owner of the project. Are we going to guarantee today – because I will no longer be here – that the work will be done on time and on time? There will be a commissioning of small bits in small bits, but the overall end of metro 3 is scheduled for 2032. We're at the licensing stage. How do you expect me to guarantee that the work will be completed in 2032? I'm not used to guaranteeing things that are out of reach. However, I can tell you that we will do everything to arrive in time and also everything to respect the residents. Metro yards are complicated. Less than before, because construction and digging techniques are modernized. For Schaerbeek, for example, there will be a huge impact. It is for this reason that we are working hand in hand with the regional and also communal authorities. Within the framework of the metro stations there will be a particular interest in the layout of the places around the stations. It's fundamental. An Ombudsman from Beliris will also be permanently on the ground. For the extension of the south, of course, all the options will be considered. We will soon receive the study and so you will be able to ask me all the questions. What collaboration exists with the Minister of Mobility? This one is of course daily! As I have received various arrests, I remind everyone of the operation of Beliris. First of all, it is based on a cooperation agreement between the federal and the Region, whether we like it or not. The Beliris Committee has four federal ministers and four regional ministers. It is not the federal government that decides and imposes what it wants to do in Brussels. It is about cooperation and therefore dialogue. When agreement is reached on all projects, an amendment is signed. I can assure you that this project, this amendment 14 is supported by all members of the government. I am continuing on the subject of mobility to answer Mr Vandenput's question about Hœyeaart and the continuation of the cycle path, which crosses the whole Flemish Brabant before returning to Brussels. Within the framework of the implementation of the cyclo-pi surprise routes in Flanders – the fietssnelwegen as they are called in Flanders – close coordination is carried out for the implementation of the various projects and studies. So I heard your questioning about Watermael-Boitsfort. We intend to extend this cycle path along the Hulpe roadway. It is in this way that the cycle paths at the entrance to Brussels are managed in coordination with Flanders, within a stuurgroep which brings together the Flemish Brabant, Brussels Mobility and the Federal. This dialogue with the Brussels Region is important, but also with the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region. The length of the routes along the railways is estimated to be about 50 kilometres in Brussels. However, we do not leave Brussels! I am replying to this question, Mr Scourneau, in relation to mobility and the whole problem of the RER which I have been following well for 20 years as a parliamentarian here. Indeed, there is a line where stopovers are planned at the RER level, but these are intra-Brussels stops. Beliris invests only in the territory of Brussels, as it appears in the cooperation agreement and it is in this case in Uccle-Calevoet and Etterbeek that we will invest in particular. I have contacts with the Walloon Brabant and the Flemish Brabant about the cyclo-pi wonder tracks but, on the other hand, it is Mr Georges Gilkinet – whom you doubtless question here often in session – who is the ad hoc person with regard to the RER. External coordination in Brussels is therefore not part of my remit, but rather of that of my colleague Mr Gilkinet, who has the competence for the entire RER at the country level. On the other hand, I hope that the town of Linkebeek will end up being right even if we have been waiting for such a positive outcome for years. As for your question about the sharp rise in the prices of raw materials which has an impact on all the yards, there is already a price revision with a rate of between 10 and 19% for the eleven yards in progress, whereas it is usually expected to be 5%. This is a challenge that everyone is facing, especially the municipalities. So we're approaching an increase of almost 20%. However, the means to which Mr.Rasquin referred, mentioned in Chapter 7 – 54 million – will therefore be welcome for the price increase for all construction sites. However, this amount will also be used to pay the salaries of the 110 employees in Beliris, to which will have to be added those of the safety and health coordinators, the technical inspectors of the construction sites, experts in pollution and soil remediation, etc. That is why mobility is an important theme, in particular inter-mobility and modality, as has been mentioned in relation to freight and in relation to the development of the canal plan, and this will remain fundamental within the framework of Beliris. A series of questions were asked about social housing and the budget of 68 million. One of the ideas that I explained to you in my general policy note, which has not changed, is that a city cannot be welcoming if the inhabitants feel bad about it. That is why we are renovating social housing. We're not building new ones. By renovating them, we also participate in the climate transition, as these social housings are real energy passory. Tenants suffer the consequences of this on their bills, but this poses other problems due to CO2 emissions. Particular attention is therefore paid to the renovation and isolation of these social housing units. These millions are in addition to the budget of the Brussels renovation plan, which I will not mention here. Mr De Spiegeleer, Beliris is guaranteed and should therefore not be discussed further during the budgetary negotiations. Every year it is. So there is no problem with the dotation, nor with its indexation. As far as sports infrastructure is concerned, we will have our national hockey stadium. Last Saturday, international matches took place, since Belgium, both men's and women's teams, beat Germany in a remarkable way. That's very good, especially for women! It was a performance for them, being less well ranked than the German teams. The men being in the lead, they can't rank better. What is the status of this project? The study office will be designated. The project, which was to take place in 2026, was complicated, as the Uccle gym had to be moved. It's a first line for studies. Then the money will come. In this regard, we are working with the federation and the Brussels Region. With regard to other sports facilities, Mr Raskin, the examination of all the parks in Brussels (Forest, Duden, Brussels Park, the 50th anniversary) reveals that they are used by both Brusselsers (they are indispensable) and commuters. Not all the joggers that can be seen in the Brussels park during noon are especially Brusselsish. They are also workers we welcome here. And I hope they will benefit even more from our parks. But the swimming pools, if they were devolved to the Brussels first and to their children, were also intended for all the officials who came to swim there during noon time. Soon, they will find completely renovated swimming pools. I think well-being is important. Mr Defossé, compared to small parks, Beliris is no longer there to make small roundabouts or pocket parks. This is not the objective of Beliris. We've been out of neighbourhood contracts since 2015. This is clearly the objective of the Region and the municipalities. If you add another interlocutor, it really becomes very complex. However, Beliris continues its work, such as the Ninove Gate, located in the heart of a densely populated neighbourhood. We will buy the land in Anderlecht and Molenbeek for the Parc de la Petite Senne. These parks will be joined from one municipality to another and we will not create small public spaces within the communes. With regard to cultural policy, it is important to strengthen federal cultural institutions. You have quoted Bozar and you see that Bozar is radiating Brussels. Angela Merkel was there to attend a remarkable concert. It is important to invest in our cultural policy and in our federal cultural tools. Mr Raskin, I will be able to answer in writing your questions on specific projects. As far as urban renewal contracts are concerned, Beliris is concerned only with mobility. Beliris no longer invests in neighbourhood contracts. Nevertheless, there are still a few lines that relate to earlier projects. You quoted the Western Railway Station in Molenbeek. It is an area of important economic, cultural and housing development for Brussels. The purchase of land concerns a major project – perhaps a little less known at the federal level – in the Bistebroeck area, a priority area for economic development and housing for the Region. The other priority areas are Reyers and Josaphat. I will communicate exactly what the lines that are added will serve. Heritage, particularly Art Deco, is a key tool in Brussels. The Museum of the Cinquantenaire, the Royal Museums and the Mint contribute to the radiation, they are known throughout the world. That's philosophy. Of course, we'll answer you. If your employees want to give us all the lines, we'll tell you what exactly the ones you mentioned correspond to. Mr President, I think I have answered most of the questions. Otherwise, come back to me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u20	Minister, thank you for these answers. Indeed, it is the role of Beliris to improve and enhance the image of Brussels and its influence abroad, and it is a function that it generally assumes with brilliance. I think that should be stressed. These new projects, this new addition are exciting, for both Brusselsers and for all Belgians who regularly come to our capital for indoor tourism, cultural events or professional or personal reasons. These people are welcome, and we must be able to welcome them in the best conditions and offer them effective mobility solutions that do not penalize the inhabitants, it is important. The antithesis of Beliris is, of course, the discourse of some who, more or less measured by each other, are ingenious to dirtyness and trampling at Brussels feet as soon as the occasion is felt, sometimes to the point of absurdity. Some, for example, deplore the fact that resources are being allocated to unattractive neighbourhoods, while the objective is precisely to make them attractive or they use unworthy words such as "segregation". I'm sorry, but we can't let such words go, which are deplorable. I know that I am not the only one who finds this deplorable - I am thinking in particular of the minister - and I will always remain on the side of those who love Brussels, its inhabitants, its history, its folklore... To return to the questions I asked you, I thank you because I think I have received an answer to all my questions. You've been very complete, and I'm glad. Little precision, however, on the north extension. I am, of course, aware of the decisions taken and the debates held by the Brussels Parliament. That's why I wasn't really asking you a question, but I was making a general point. As far as housing is concerned, I agree with you on the importance of the renovation and isolation of these houses. We know that, unless I am mistaken, buildings account for 69% of greenhouse gas emissions in Brussels. I note that this is done in addition to the Brussels plan and that this may speed up this necessary policy. In any case, Madam Minister, I am still in such a hurry to see the achievements, not only as Brussels but also as a Belgian, because I think Brussels, Brussels, Belgium and Belgium are worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am of course aware that Minister Gilkinet is the competent minister to perhaps find the kind compromise between the three regions in order to move forward on the RER project. However, in relation to your initiative, it is not appropriate to make investments of 10 million if the RSP does not succeed. Of course, everyone plays in their skills. But if, in Linkebeek, things are getting stuck - and they've been getting stuck for a long time already - it's very little interest to upgrade before they unlocked this situation. The urgency, of course, is to unblock this situation. That is why I would like to ask if you could possibly join Minister Gilkinet's efforts, which I have already questioned on this issue. We can't do this if we watch each other without talking to each other. It's an ambitious project. My political group has always been present for ambitious projects. That is why we are defending the extension of the metro. That is why we believe that there is still a lot of work to be done on mobility in Brussels, which is perhaps one of the most crowded capitals in the world. We will be at your side for the necessary investments, which will always be insufficient, because the envelope is what it is, but which may make it possible to see a more mobile future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u22	Mr Scourneau, I am somewhat surprised. We're in a committee meeting about Beliris. The initial aim of the Fund was to highlight the city of Brussels. This has been extended to the Brussels-Capital Region. However, you repeated twice the problem of the GEN in the Flemish-Brabant Linkebeek. So what is the purpose of the committee meeting on Beliris? Mr Scourneau, how big do you think Beliris will be? How big do you want Beliris to be?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u23	When I look at the ambition of the budget proposed by the minister, I note that the most important item is on mobility. In this item, ten million is spent on the RER. I am therefore interested in the RER project which is not a Brussels-Bruxello project but a project which concerns the three regions and where everyone plays their part. I therefore ask whether we can imagine better cooperation between the regions. I said I didn't want to make it a community problem. Far from me! I do not see how that makes it difficult for the Walloon Region to access Brussels more easily via the RER or, conversely, for the Brussels people to access Wallonia more easily via the RER. Improving mobility contributes to the brand image of the Brussels Region and, as a result, it is not inappropriate but rather pragmatic to plan ambitious mobility projects. One of the most ambitious projects for better Brussels mobility is indeed to move forward on the RER project. It is already very far away in Flanders where it is almost completely realized. You can ask yourself why.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u24	Unfortunately?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u25	I don't know if it's happiness or misfortune, but in any case, it's a fact. Today, in relation to this fact, I ask how we can move forward. Billions have already been spent. A certain program at the time focused on unnecessary work. I do not imagine that tomorrow we should note that the billions committed have been unnecessarily committed to set up four tracks in order to reduce the congestion of Brussels mobility. I think it's time to move on. The envelope that had been set aside in 2000 - and it is sometimes good to recall this - was an envelope that was sufficient at the time but that was exhausted, given the dilation of the deadlines that caused the budgets to explode. We are going to find ourselves in a similar situation which will put us back in trouble and which is likely to require new envelopes to finalize this project. You will tell me that as long as it is not achieved, so much the better, it does not cost anything, but in any case the budgets that have been spent do not serve anything. If you come to visit my commune, more than ten kilometers have been realized with two additional tracks that are inoperative, with existing docks that could be used but that are inoperative. This is ridiculous! It is essential to move forward or find other solutions. It must be said that Linkebeek can possibly be bypassed, but unfortunately the railway is what it is and it is necessary to stay side by side with the existing tracks. Perhaps we could set up a switch to fall back on two tracks at this place? I don't know because I'm not a railway technician but a poor little provincial mayor...And again, if you reread my statements in the press dating back to the 2000s, you will find that my commune, Eigenbrakel, was not a plaintiff – because we have the station that is the best served from line 124 between Brussels and Charleroi with a lot of omnibuses and a service facilitated at peak times at this place – but it remains that if we want to play the game of the supramunicipal public interest, we had to fit into this project that was extremely harmful for a mayor. Indeed, hundreds of people had to be expropriated to realize the two additional routes. This has had to be explained to the population who have lived through large-scale construction projects that have lasted more than twenty years and are still in progress, and which have had the corollary of the neighbourhood disorders that characterize them. This involved permanent contacts with local residents who were indisposed by the construction site, who did not go to Brussels but had the end of their garden planed by twenty metres. Believe me, they had to be met, discussed with them and made clear to them that this was a supra-municipal project of public interest with respect to which a yes of principle had been applied even if, a priori, we were not applicants. Today, all those people who have seen things happen for nothing do not understand and, obviously, everything has been blocked because, I weigh my words, of a place on this line that obstructs its development. Whether you like it or not, it's Linkebeek, it's in the Flemish Region. This is an observation – I do not make it a Community principle – unless you explain this paralysis by the fact that it is unfortunate to have established the ER, whether in the North or in the South of the country. I do not explain this situation and I have been waiting for a train which is not on time and which is twenty years late for the last twenty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u26	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the offer to repeat the lines and then receive a second response. I appreciate that very much. I would also like to make a suggestion, because the debate that has taken place here proves the point I have already made. Everyone here beckons to the coffin full of Beliris money. Certain mayors, for example those of Eigenbrakel and Hoeilaart, to mention only two friendly mayors who come to me first, have very concrete ideas about what can happen to that money. Madam Minister, I suggest that you adhere strictly to the framework that includes the historic objective of Beliris. Then there will be no more discussion and the resources will end up where they are supposed to end up. I thought it was important to give you this suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic604x.u27	Minister, thank you very much for your presence and availability, as well as for the presentation, the answers and the clarifications you have given to colleagues on all these issues. We had, again, an exchange that I would call instructive. A big thank you to the colleagues, too.
