ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague Marc Goblet left us on June 16. The tireless activist was 64 years old. Born to a family of minors, he attached great importance to social values. Marc Goblet's diploma in heating installer in his pocket did not hesitate to set up his own business. In 1982, when he was only 25 years old, he became secretary of the General Centre of Liège-Huy-Waremme of the FGTB. In 1997, he became vice-president and in 2004 president of the General Centre of Liège. Always relying on his knowledge of the issues, Marc Goblet became involved with determination in all social struggles. We remember his hard efforts to save the crystallity of Val Saint-Lambert and the Haccourt cement factory. On 3 October 2014, Marc Goblet succeeded Anne Demelenne as General Secretary of the ABBV and as Chairman of the Walloon ABBV-Interwest. Marc Goblet then gained national fame as a principle-abiding trade union leader who called for action when needed, but also as a respectful interlocutor who attached great importance to consultation and negotiation. While Marc Goblet considered himself primarily a trade unionist, he nevertheless considered it important to translate his ideas into political action. He was a faithful PS activist for more than 40 years. From 1998 to 2003, he held the presidency of the Verviet Federation of the PS, and in his home town of Herve he never hesitated to assume political responsibilities: he was a communal councillor from 1991 to 2000 and alderman from 2001 to 2003. In May 2019, Marc Goblet was elected MP for the Liège constituency. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions, he has constantly defended the interests of workers and, as he has done all his life, has denounced injustices. Last year, he was on the front line to take concrete action in favour of nurses, who were under severe stress from the crisis. It has been one of the driving forces behind the sustainability of the White Blouse Fund, which will increase the volume of employment in the health care sector. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With Marc Goblet, we lost a colleague viscerally faithful to his convictions with humility, integrity and availability. His sense of listening, his commitment, his ultrasensitivity and his openness to others have been recognized by all. Those who have known will keep the image of a man of a strong but warm, modest and deeply generous character. This activist of heart and mind never deviated from his socialist convictions and fought with determination for the causes he believed with, in the foreground, the defense of the workers. His union engagement was for him as a second nature, a straight line drawn around which his life was organized. On behalf of the House, I extended our sincere condolences to his wife, Joëlle, his children Geoffrey and Cecilia, their companion and companion, and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the death of Marc Goblet is a triple tragedy, first of all for the members of his family to whom I, on behalf of the government, would like to express our compassion and wish them every courage in this extremely painful period. Mark was a husband and a father overflowing with love who left an immense lack among his loved ones. His disappearance is also a tragedy for our assembly, which loses a Member of Parliament who is full of coherence and fidelity to the social ideals that have accompanied his whole life. Beyond partisan logic, without concession but always in search of an ideal, Marc will leave a strong memory of these two years on these benches. Finally, its disappearance is a great loss for social consultation, this pillar of our model of society. Marc was, throughout his militant, trade union and political career, as a hero as well as a herald. Without false appearances or detours, Marc was always critical of our social relations, but rarely severe. In each of these three areas, private, in Parliament and in the trade union, Marc has given the best of himself, with a special sense of commitment in the service of society and in the service of a vision of society that gives everyone a dignified place, without leaving anyone on the side. His struggle was and is more relevant and necessary than ever in a society weakened by growing individualism. Even diminished by the disease in recent months, he has continued to fight for his ideals, step by step, without being turned away, sometimes even not staying in the ranks. In this regard, Marc will have been, as Achilles Chavée said, "a Red Skin who refuses to walk in the Indian queue". The confrontation of ideas, the debate – sometimes harsh – at the service of a vision of society, is indeed the very essence of our assembly. In this capacity, together with all my colleagues in the government, I would like to solemnly salute Marc Goblet's memory. He leaves a gap among us, which must remind us every day of our moral imperative in the service of society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u4	Madam President, I would like to begin by expressing my condolences to colleagues from the PS for the death of the colleague. I did so last week in a tweet because, fortunately, we rarely lose anyone in the fire of battle as a member of this assembly. The proper functioning of Parliament consists in a good relationship between majority and opposition, but also in a good and fair debate between Parliament and the government. The government is always welcome here in our home, the home of legislative power. Sometimes it is not only welcome, but also necessary for a good, serious and respectable debate. Yesterday, unfortunately, we really experienced a fausse queue. Last week I spoke to the Prime Minister in plenary about this relationship between Parliament and government. Yesterday there was a bill for discussion and no one from the government was present. That's what forced us to suspend the meeting. Equally, we take offense at the very unusual fact that we discussed two draft laws in which one minister was identified as a victim to defend it, although that was not his portfolio. Mr Van Quickenborne and Mr Mahdi were not present in defence of their own bill. That's very unusual. That did not happen under the Michel administration. Mr Francken told me this morning that the ministers were then called when they were not present when their own draft law was discussed. That is why I would like to put forward an order motion in which the Chamber asks the government, as the usual parliamentary decency demands, to always send the minister of the portfolio concerned in the debate when discussing draft laws. Yesterday we had to find out that questions asked by colleagues had to be answered by a minister who is not working on the subject and I really do not want to point the finger at him, because luckily he was still there who had to read the answers on a tablet as they were forwarded. That's disrespectful to this assembly. That is why I would like to submit the order of business, in which we, as a Chamber, ask the government that in future every time the relevant minister or secretary of state is present here and makes himself available for the parliamentary debate, subject to the normal rules of apology that we know, the cases of absence which the Conference of Presidents also determines every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u5	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank all the group leaders, the majority and the opposition, for agreeing to adjust this week's agenda to allow the members of the Socialist Group to attend the tribute paid yesterday to Marc Goblet. This gesture is quite appreciative and will not be forgotten in terms of democratic courtesy. I would therefore like to thank you formally for having agreed to proceed with the holding of the Conference of Presidents on Tuesday. For the rest, Mr De Roover, I think you are right. In fact, at the parliamentary level, it is not logical for a minister to be absent from a debate on a bill that concerns him; except, of course, cases of force majeure, imperative political or diplomatic obligation, scheduled foreign travel, in short, a whole series of circumstances that have already forced us to accept that such a minister be replaced by one of his colleagues. However, your request remains legitimate. Dear colleague De Roover, I am making a proposal. From the moment we share your point of view, we could include it in the next Conference of Presidents, so that we can all take a stand together in the presence of the government representative and remind the Prime Minister that the presence and representation of the government must be functionally assured, given the issues. In this way, the work can best be carried out in the future. Like you, we share this concern. That is why, Mr De Roover, I propose that you make a point of this at the next Conference of Presidents. We will not fail to support it, because what happened yesterday cannot happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u6	Is anyone asking for the floor? [[No]] I suggest that you distribute the motion to all members and give notice later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u7	Mr. Secretary, in your scarce spare time, I suppose you wouldn't like to be would-be-David Copperfield. So break through the illusion of general satisfaction that you have been perpetuating for several weeks now. The conclusion of the interprofessional agreement has dominated the political agenda since the beginning of this year. You have always maintained your faith in social dialogue. Of course, you were able to praise the final agreement within the Group of Ten a few weeks ago. After difficult negotiations, a compromise had been reached between workers' representatives and employers' representatives. It was a compromise à la belge, there were winners and losers, but that is a story of giving and taking. The most important thing was that there was still a prospect of social peace, in the run-up to the very difficult relance that announces itself after one and a half years of coronamism. The ink of this chord wasn't dry yet or there was already raffled on the war drum on the far left side. They called for this difficult agreement to be rejected and for the hegemony to be broken. On the Walloon side it was downright njet, the FGTB opposed this agreement and voted against it by no less than 84 %. The Flemish wing, the ABVV, voted massively for this agreement. As much as 72% of it supported it. In fact, according to good socialist tradition, there is still some discussion about counting the votes. The other trade unions also have similar distortions between Flanders and Wallonia. The so-called social dialogue, which you have been renowned for, can no longer come to agreements that are supported by the grassroots. We'll be back to square one after six months of negotiation. Minister, what do you think of the Community fault line that is clearly reflected in this story? Will you draw the interprofessional agreement to you? If so, what solutions do you see to maintain social peace or is there going to be another very expensive strike in Wallonia?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u8	Mr Verreyt, the interprofessional agreement is an important part of the Belgian social model. It is an opportunity for the social partners to negotiate employment measures, closing the gender pay gap and training. It is also the time when the wage margin is set. The interprofessional agreement is therefore important for all workers in the country, regardless of the region in which they live or work. It is negotiated by representatives of employers and employees at interprofessional and thus federal level. You can try, Mr Verreyt, but I will not take part in a communitarisation of the debate. For me, labour law is, and remains, federal, and this is certainly true of the wage formation of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u9	Minister, the labour market in Flanders and Wallonia is fundamentally different. I do not think it is possible to conclude agreements at Belgian level. Labour market policy and hence social dialogue must go to the regional level. Both regions can then pursue policies that reflect their situation and their political wishes, perfectly in line with the specific demands of their employees and employers, but also with the financial consequences and responsibility within the region. Everyone's happy like that. At present, the socialist trade union is being held hostage by its Walloon wing. Social peace is being put back on the line and the prosperity of Flanders is the hostage of one union, which apparently can afford anything. Let me make it clear once again: we are in favour of social dialogue, we are in favour of a more net wage for the employee, but the growing gap between Flanders and Wallonia is a catch 22, which neither Wallonia nor Flanders will benefit. So get out of the impasse and finally give that responsibility to the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u10	Mr Vice Prime Minister, more than one in ten companies in Belgium would be barely viable at the moment. According to the OECD, there are 40,000 zombie companies, as they are called. This problem is not new, but it has been reinforced by the Corona aid measures. Specifically, they are companies that were on the verge of bankruptcy just before the corona crisis and are currently artificially kept alive by the corona aid measures. I warned you about this at the start of the corona crisis, and I also noted the problem during the policy statement. Businesses are damaging productivity and creating unfair competition. They don't have a good impact on our economy. On the contrary, they can ensure that companies end up in a bankruptcy storm, in which healthy companies are dragged along and many jobs will be lost. However, my warnings remained unheard. You even ensured that companies could not go bankrupt temporarily. Don't get me wrong, I'm very glad that the government interventions couldn't bankrupt a number of companies, but let's not forget to take the abuse out and distinguish between the healthy companies that try to keep hard-working entrepreneurs out of the water day after day and the zombie companies that threaten to drag them into bankruptcy because they can't or even want to pay their invoices. Voka put this on today, too. Zombie companies will remove the plug when the aid measures are phased out. Minister, how do you intend to eliminate these zombie companies so that healthy companies can live again? When will you respond to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u11	Mrs Houtmeyers, as you know, I raised the issue of so-called zombie companies in the Committee on Economic Affairs last week. I have reminded you that this is an important subject. Eliminating zombie companies from corona support is a risky and even disastrous strategy, from a social and economic point of view. The zombie companies are a structural problem. The government's corona support is an emergency solution to a temporary problem. Those two things must not be mixed. The annual accounts can give some indication, but identifying zombie companies is an extremely difficult and delicate exercise. I can tell you today that a study of the Prize Observatory will be published in July on the issue of zombie companies. This study will give an overview of the sectors most vulnerable to this problem and help us rationalise the debate. I therefore urge you to await the results of this study before we discuss further what measures can be taken. I believe that we should be very careful in this matter and that we should not exclude zombie companies from aid. On the other hand, specific measures will have to be taken for them. We need to help zombie companies get out of the zombie category by tackling their liquidity and solvency problems instead of trying to bankrupt them at all costs. Finally, I would like to remind you that there are tens of thousands of employees behind the zombie companies. That is an important point of attention for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u12	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the fact that aid measures have been taken is absolutely good. That was absolutely necessary. I have certainly always supported and encouraged you in this. You say it's a difficult and delicate exercise. I certainly understand that, but Belgium scores very high internationally, if not the highest, in terms of the number of zombie companies. Why can our neighbouring countries do better, and can we not? The fact that there are zombie companies isn't new. I warned you in November 2020. You heard it thundering in Cologne. It has only got worse at the moment. Several actors, such as the Voka, the ECB and the OECD, are making the alarm. It's now five past twelve, so we can't really wait anymore. We risk the healthy companies being dragged along. In this way, a lot of healthy companies will be turned upside down and many jobs will be lost, not just among the zombie companies. Then we risk a lot of employees coming home, with no perspective and no job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the zero contribution measure is a strong measure, both for business support and, as you know, for job creation. This is also a measure included in the government agreement: "It will be extended beyond 2020. An evaluation will take place in 2021 which could lead to reform to avoid non-use and abuse." Today, however, we learn from a leak in the press that a royal decree would be in preparation to remove the measure. It is for us incomprehensible, if not unbearable, first of all on the merits. As I have just said, this is an achievement of the government agreement. In addition, this measure helps hundreds of thousands of self-employed people. More than 50,000 companies used this measure in the last quarter of 2020 and these are precisely the sectors most affected by the covid crisis (construction, horeca, small businesses). On form too, as I said, there was a leak in the press. Is this not a lack of respect for the partners of the majority? On the other hand, with regard to timing, as our SMEs slowly start to pull their heads out of the water and talk about recovery, we risk losing them an essential advantage. The UCM, which is not represented on the ONSS Management Committee, has responded strongly. The UCM points out the nonsense of a government message that would say: of course we are helping you and we are at your side but, at the same time, we are going to remove an essential measure. Minister, could you clarify and confirm to us that this royal decree in preparation is not a pure and simple removal of the "zero-conti" measure? What about the adaptations on the table of possible reform of the measure? Finally, have you measured the impact, in terms of employment, for both SMEs and TPEs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u14	Minister, today many independents and SMEs are particularly concerned about the government's willingness to go back to zero lifetime contributions on the first job. Fifty thousand entrepreneurs are involved and their incomprehension is total. I imagine you have read the words of the President of the Middle Class Union, Mr Nyst, who says he is outraged – and I understand that. This has allowed many entrepreneurs, particularly the self-employed and SMEs, to dare to take the step to hire an employee and to grow. I recall that they did so on the basis of the solemn promises of the Michel government. Does not a contract promised by the State have any value? I recall the economic tsunami linked to the covid epidemic. Is this the signal you want to send today to break the recovery for our SMEs and self-employed? Economic recovery is not just the 5.9 billion Europeans. Economic recovery is very concretely supporting our businesses and our self-employed. I would remind you that SMEs account for more than two thirds of employed people. Minister, what does your draft royal decree contain? I could ask Minister Dermagne the same question. Do you realize that returning to this zero contribution scheme means increasing the burden on employers, that is increasing the cost of work, when we need support, recovery, measures to maintain and create employment today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u15	Dear colleagues, in implementation of the government agreement, I have asked the management committee of ONSS to carry out an evaluation of the group-target reduction system "first commitments". On 28 May, the Management Committee unanimously approved the synthesis of the working group it had entrusted with the evaluation. In recent weeks, the ONSS and the Federal Public Service (FPS) Social Security have worked hard to develop regulations. There is no question of deleting this measure, but the ONSS Management Committee proposes a number of important adaptations to the target group reduction "first commitments". The most significant element of this opinion is the limitation of the currently unlimited exemption from ONSS contributions to the recruitment of a first employee. In this opinion, it is proposed to limit the amount of the reduction to EUR 3,100 per quarter, with a maximum of 26 quarters. Therefore, this means that substantial support would continue if such a proposal were accepted. During the first ten quarters, employers could apply an ONSS reduction of €3,100 per quarter, followed by eight quarters at €2,100 and finally eight quarters at €900, representing a cumulative total of €55,000 of ONSS reduction over a six-and-a-half-year period. This is therefore a very strong support, and I believe it is perfectly legitimate. Furthermore, the proposal contains several adaptations aimed at making the organisation of the system more logical. Adjustments will reduce the use of the system that is considered to be abusive, but will also remove certain barriers that are perceived to be unfair. I'm talking about management committee proposals. These proposals have been fully reflected in bills and royal decrees. I submitted them to the government for discussion. An intercabinets working group is currently examining this file. This is an evaluation and then proposals. I do not want to go ahead with the government's findings, but I would like to point out that strong support, intended to really help small self-employed people take the important step of hiring staff for the first time, remains absolutely our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u16	Minister, I am pleased to hear that there is no question of deletion - it is important to hear it and repeat it - and that these are only proposals on the table, not decisions that would precede the discussions that are still going to take place in the government. I would also like to point out that the UCM was not part of the discussions and the working group, and that it is also important to hear the Union of Middle Classes, which has spoken widely on this issue. That adaptations be implemented, of course, because a measure can always be evaluated. But once again, my group really strongly defends a system of support for the self-employed. As I said earlier, it would be the sectors most affected by the crisis, which are facing it in full swing, that would be subject to the removal of this measure. It is therefore important that the support remains intact, even if somewhat adapted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u17	Minister, what you are proposing is not simply to put an end to abuses. It's a lot more. What you are proposing is simply to unblock the "zero contribution for life" device. Since yesterday, I have received a lot of calls from independents and SMEs. I keep from what they tell me it's triple shocking. First of all, because it is a breach of contract. The Michel government had promised, slain sworn "zero lifetime contribution on the first job". That's a mistake! Secondly, it is shocking because today there is an urgent need to relaunch and especially to support our SMEs, our self-employed, existing jobs and to revive them to create new ones. Finally, what is also shocking is that you clearly set the course for increasing the cost of work, for increasing the employer's burden. It's the opposite of a smart recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u18	Madam President, Minister, I have not recognized my country of origin for eleven years. I'm even ashamed of it. For eleven years Viktor Orbán has been rampant and trampling on the fundamental values of the European Union with impunity. For eleven years he has openly attacked all those who deviate from – or even denounce – his project of retrograde and liberticide society: women, migrants, NGOs, journalists, magistrates, intellectuals, Roma, but also LGBTQI+. This Tuesday Orbán hit again. This law, which was originally aimed at combating paedophilia, now prohibits the promotion of homosexuality, but also of gender change, among minors of age. It is a combination, a call for hatred and absolutely unacceptable discrimination. As you know, this law is punctuated by several other homophobic and transphobic measures, since homosexual couples can no longer raise children, as well as persons who change their sex can no longer be recognized through the acts of civil status. Today, I am moved to see rainbow flags floating here and there throughout Europe, but also in Belgium, at the fronts of the municipal administrations, of our Parliament, but also of the Belgian Football Union. However, I wonder how to convince Hungary, but also all those states that still support the government, to put an end to this spiral of truly infernal liberticide. We have to hit where it hurts. First of all, we must do so at European level, by making the granting of European funds conditional on respect for the rule of law, but also by taking action for failure to fulfil obligations, by bringing the matter before the European Commission. And also, at the national level, why not suspend some of our bilateral agreements? Minister, are you going to use all these levers, but also – I insist – to support Hungarian youth and civil society who dare to stand up against the Orbán government and who need us more than ever?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u19	Madam President, Madam Minister, last night, in front of my TV, I had the impression that two games were going on, with the football game on the one hand and the Europe of Values game on the other; with Germany-Hungary on the one hand and the game on the other to ensure respect for fundamental rights on the other. There were many supporters of them who took out their rainbow flag, as the House of Representatives did, for example. The supporters of the freedom to love who we want have thus adorned themselves with the colors of the rainbow. The Bavarian minister-president, for his part, attended the game by wearing a mask with the same colours, which also illuminated the Grand Place in Brussels and the frontons of many communal buildings. A movement such as this amplified by a huge citizen's impetus warms the consciences of the Democrats. But it is not enough to ease the anxiety of seeing part of Europe sink into democratic recession, into obscurantism. Minister, I am proud of my country. I am proud of this government that has really initiated a movement that brings together 17 Member States today to stop homophobia, stop discriminatory laws in the European Union, stop hatred, and ask the Commission to refer these serious violations of fundamental freedoms in Hungary to the Court of Justice. Minister, we support you in your approach. However, Belgium alone or with the other 16 Member States may also refer the matter directly to the Court of Justice of the European Union. You can initiate a default procedure. If the Commission did not take up its responsibilities, could you refer the matter to the Court? Indeed, it would be wrong to pretend that we can't say anything, that we can't do anything. With such dangerous national laws, it is every European who sees his fundamental rights threatened. It is about our freedom of movement, about our freedom to settle, for example, in Budapest. Madam Minister, Belgium can go to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg and even to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg alone or with other States signatories to the appeal. Is this track under consideration within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u20	Madam President, I thank the parliamentarians who have asked these questions. Mrs Rohonyi, I understand your emotion and share it. It is heartwarming to see that the citizens, through Europe, have seized this fundamental issue, and support us, the politicians, in order to continue to lead this fight in the various international and European fora in which we are. I have already had the opportunity to say so in committee before, and I say it again here today: Belgium is strongly committed to the fight against all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. This is why the growing discrimination faced by LGBTQI people in Hungary is a major concern. Following the adoption by the Hungarian Parliament of this law, I worked, as President of Benelux, on a joint statement by the Ministers for European Affairs. Other countries have joined us and today we are seventeen. I say 'today', because we do not forbid other countries to join us. Portugal has told us, for example, that, after his presidency, he will add his signature to our statement. The item will be discussed today in the Council, at the European top. You understand that the Prime Minister will intervene strongly. This law is stigmatizing, discriminating against LGBTQI people. It also violates freedom of expression. In addition, the terminology used in the texts makes a deeply unacceptable mix between pornography and the LGBTQI community. I really encourage you to read this law. I note with satisfaction that the European Commission has already sent a letter to the Hungarian Minister of Justice asking the government to explain itself before 30 June. It must be explained before this law is finally adopted, which, I must tell you, is not yet the case. I don't have a lot of illusions, but we have to respect the procedures. The objective of our action cannot be limited to shouting, even very loudly, our disapproval. Our action must also combat Hungarian legislation at its core by all possible means and certainly, in our opinion, by bringing this matter before the Court of Justice of the European Union. And that is what we have asked the Commission. It is obvious that Belgium and the other like-minded countries want to go to the end of the road we have undertaken. We will not just say how much we disagree. We want to go further. Protests are not enough anymore. The procedures are set in motion. They must be able to succeed. Depending on their outcome, we will take an attitude in this understood way by means of additional procedures in the event that the law is finally adopted and if the Commission's current approaches are not sufficient. Let it be clear between us, this is not an action against the Hungarian population. This is not an action against Hungarians. This is an approach against a law and against processes that we consider unacceptable. European values are the cement of our Union. We will not allow fundamentals to be flouted. Europe and its values are not on the map. It is high time to demonstrate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u21	Minister, thank you very much for your answers, for your initiatives and for your determination. They make me particularly proud that Belgium has the courage that UEFA has not had. When fighting racism, we must also fight homophobia. When promoting sport, one must also defend its values of equality and respect, because showing solidarity with the LGBTQI community is not a political message, it is just a duty. Every year I go to Budapest where I have my friends and family. I feel good about it except that I know perfectly well that if I were a lesbian or a bisexual, I wouldn't have that chance. I should hide to be myself or to kiss the person I love. This is why the Orbán government has been crossing the red line for too long. It benefits from the complexity of the European sanctions mechanisms. That is why, more than ever before, we need guarantees that Belgium and the European Union will be able to go, as you rightly say, to the end, to sanction the Hungarian government and support the Hungarian people who are hostage to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u22	Minister, it is my turn to thank you for your response and determination. My Europe, our Europe, is an area of values. It's a space of freedom. One cannot be a member of the European Union by taking, on the one hand, economic benefits, aid for agricultural development, etc. and, on the other hand, frontally attack fundamental freedoms. That's not possible. We must move from speech to action. As you said, procedures are under way and must be followed. I heard the deadline of June 30, 2021. If we do not know how to find unanimity to sanction these serious violations of fundamental rights within the Twenty-seven, then let us go to justice! Take the initiative alone or with a few others! Let us demand reparation in the name of the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms! Belgium can once again be at the initiative of this movement for freedoms and, in this case, for the freedom to love anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u23	Minister, there is a growing demand for zero tolerance for crimes: vandalism: zero tolerance, violence against the police: zero tolerance and last week you also advocated zero tolerance in the event of excessive speed. But large-scale million-dollar fraud, one can still get away with it. Today we get the message that a well-known carpet family, which has been involved for years in a case of large-scale financial fraud, is getting away with a friendly settlement of 50 million. In return, they will not have to appear before the courts and will not be punished. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first time that such a large fraud case has ended not before the courts, but with a slap on the wrist. Cheaters with a thick wallet put a few million euros on the table to avoid being punished by the judge. That, colleagues, is pure class justice. In fact, in financial matters it seems that the greater the crime, the less one is punished. It is striking that such settlements are made in large, complex cases and that they are being prosecuted in small cases. That's the upside-down world. For the Group of the European People's Party, this is unfair and unacceptable. We also call for zero tolerance, but also for tax fraud, no matter how thick the wallet of the perpetrators is. Before that, Minister, I am looking at you. We have agreed to step up the fight against tax fraud. It has to be said, you have already announced that there are a lot more resources and people are coming to that. We have also agreed that we will thoroughly review and amend the bill of surrender, the law on the extended amicable settlement, if necessary. I would have liked to hear from you how far that is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u24	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke stood here in the hemisphere with a charge against the way in which some of our fellow countrymen were treated. He had a series of headlines with him before, and I will quote a few: 'Strike with delay for young people stealing pistachios'. "A month in jail for stealing two cans of Carapils." This contrasted sharply with another headline: "Proven CEO of state-owned companies buys prosecution for 107,000 euros." What do we read in the newspapers today, colleagues? "Parket signs agreement of 50 million euros with numbers of textile family." This is one of the biggest and longest-term fraud cases in the history of our country: it has been going on for 31 years. 31 years of money laundering, ensuring that profits are not subject to taxes and refusing to contribute to society. That is something that strikes people, Minister. What happens after 31 years? One is fighting, one cannot stand up to an army of lawyers and an inexhaustible source of resources. There is a threat of statute of limitations and so it is agreed that the government will be given some money, which will stop fighting in return. That's how fraudsters get off the hook. How many white-collar criminals are in Belgian prisons today? I'd love to know, but it won't be many. Minister, everything is about balancing: jail time for stealing a can of Cara; no jail time for robbing the government for tens of millions. The buy-back law that allows those offenders to go free every time deserves a thorough evaluation. That's what the coalition agreement says. What is your view and that of government on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u25	Madam President, Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Vanbesien, crime must not be rewarded. That is why we need a strong justice and police force to complete complex cases of organized financial and tax fraud within a reasonable period of time, without the statute of limitations lurking around the corner, because that is unacceptable. We therefore also need a system that ensures that the pronounced penalties are implemented effectively. Fines and confiscations pronounced by a judge must not remain a dead letter, because that too is unacceptable. Those are the ambitions that the government started to pursue, and that is exactly what I am doing minutely. Last week, I announced an ambitious investment plan for Justice. Our budget goes from 2 billion to 2 billion EUR 500 million. An important part of this is the fight against financial and fiscal fraud. Next year, we will appoint sixty additional specialized and well-educated people to the public prosecutor's office and the courts. There will be specialized criminal execution magistrates who will apply the principle of follow the money, which means that they will go behind the criminal profits hidden behind financial shady constructions. In addition, my colleague Vincent Van Peteghem has adopted an ambitious action plan in the fight against tax and social fraud. More tax officials will be employed for this purpose. Justice will contribute to this. This approach also fits in with the evaluation of the extended friendly solution. I have instructed the College of Attorney General, responsible for the prosecution policy in our country, to review those regulations. After all, I cannot accept that the friendly settlement is a patchwork for an undermanned Justice and Police, who would not be able to effectively tackle complex forms of fraud. More people for the Justice Department are one thing, but we must also dare to be critical of the classic way of investigating and prosecuting. There are alternatives to traditional research, an investigation that is only brought before a criminal court when all possible crimes and offenders have been investigated to the bone. Mr Vanbesien, these investigations are very time-consuming and do not produce the desired result. The citizens are counting on us to do more in the fight against financial and fiscal fraud. The Justice Department will take up the glove and better track, prosecute and punish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u26	Minister, you will already find a partner in Vooruit to strengthen Justice in order to tackle tax fraud. When I hear you like this, there will be no excuse, with all the additional resources and people, to prevent major fraudsters from appearing before the courts in order to get their deserved punishment. Colleagues, do not underestimate the indignation of the citizens. At a time when we have more than ever called for solidarity to keep our society right in times of crisis, some are undermining that solidarity by not doing their part. That is unacceptable, so we are giving all the support for zero tolerance for tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u27	Minister, this morning we had a lively debate here on the adjustment of the budget. There was also an interesting discussion about solidarity, solidarity between regions, solidarity between provinces and solidarity between people. People are absolutely willing to show solidarity, but they must feel that it is happening in a fair way and that everyone is doing their part. Together with Minister Van Peteghem, we are preparing a tax reform, which will result in everyone contributing in a spirit of solidarity. Minister, I am glad to hear that you will be working on a better way of dealing with those who deliberately avoid solidarity and that you will help to ensure that not the bad guys are rewarded, but all the good guys, who do show solidarity with our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u28	Minister, in 2019 140 migrants per month risked the dangerous crossing to the United Kingdom. This month alone, as many as 1,600 migrants have risked the same crossing. An action took place last night. You spoke extensively to the press and we were told that eight transit migrants were being arrested. Only 2 of them were transferred to a closed return center. I'm gonna ask my first questions about that right away. Then what happened to the other six transit migrants? Don't come up with the answer that should happen. It's a trick you and your colleagues like to use, but we're not gonna fall for it anymore. On the radio, you say that these people should be transferred to a closed return centre and then be returned to their country of origin on the basis of a readmission agreement. You and I both know that's not what really happened. Can you tell the people how many of the transit migrants who come into contact with the police are actually being arrested, taken to a closed return centre and then repatriated? Do you dare to say it, Mr. Van Quickenborne? I'm curious. In addition to stopping mass illegal migration to Europe, there is, of course, the real solution, namely in more capacity in closed return centres and much more readmission agreements. This way the police work becomes more than mopping with the tap open. I therefore ask you to call on the government to speed up the work of a master plan of closed return centres and thus to open up new return centres for this legislature. If you don't do that, you can still try to catch as many human smugglers as you want, then that won't do anything. As long as the borders are wide open and arrested illegal migrants will not be effectively deported, smugglers will continue to earn billions at the expense of those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u29	Colleague, the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is a complex international problem. These are criminal networks that use mercilessly people, who make big money, who have many lives on their consciences. That is precisely why politics must not look away. That is precisely why politics must make a difference in the field. Remember the situation of the tent camps in the north of France. Our country acted forcefully at that time, with the result that there are no camps here. Now we are faced with a new phenomenon: tramplers smuggling immigrants into the United Kingdom in small boats. We are also taking action against this. Yesterday with a first large-scale action in a whole series of actions. More than 500 vehicles were checked and 5 transmigrants were effectively detained and locked in a closed center. Their cell phones are being picked out to get a look at the smuggling networks. It is in this way that the police and the justice system are stepping up the fight against these criminals. By targeted control actions like last night's. By targeted detectives, in particular using the latest technology to map criminal smuggling networks. Through international cooperation with France, with Germany, with the Netherlands. Because of good agreements with colleagues Verlinden and Mahdi. Also by more places in the closed centers. And most importantly, by using our best magistrates and best policemen on this. Only yesterday, an important network of smugglers was sentenced to 12-year prison sentences by a judge in Bruges. That, ladies and gentlemen, makes a difference. We will not allow criminal networks to systematically choose our country as their base of operation. We will not allow illegal camps to be built here. We will not allow the criminals in our country to be given free rein.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u30	Minister, you said it on the radio this morning and you repeat it here this afternoon: you want to control the problem of transit migration. However, this problem must not be mastered, but it must be solved. This problem will not be solved by simply pursuing the lax policy of the previous governments, but by closing the borders and by apprehending all illegal migrants who come into contact with the police, placing them in a closed return centre, implying that you are speeding up the implementation of the closed return centre master plan and sending them back to their country of origin through readmission agreements. Only if you do, you will be able to solve the problem instead of controlling it. As long as the boats continue to come to Europe via the Mediterranean, the boats will continue to go to the United Kingdom via the North Sea. Finally tackle the problem at the root.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u31	Madam President, Minister, we are all struck by the EC fever and the Red Devils, which is a pleasure. Unfortunately, that also causes gambling fever. Those who look at the European Championships and especially at the sports sites cannot avoid the numerous gambling advertisements. There's a risk of a new gambling epidemic. Since the start of the corona crisis, we have found that the number of gambling addicts has increased by 25%. So the gambling industry becomes dormantly rich on the hood and the head of vulnerable people. It's not all innocent, although some suggest it that way. A guess would be innocent. However, one in five bettors runs the risk of gambling addiction, which is serious. That's gotta stop. Gambling advertising normalizes gambling. The example recently of Wesley Sonck, who acts in gambling advertising, is therefore not banal and innocent, especially for young people. Not only does CD&V have a bill on this matter. The High Health Council, the Family Association, Test Purchase and all kinds of organizations involved in addictions also advocate a ban on gambling advertising. Gambling advertising must disappear from the streets, from the televisions and from the websites. The municipalities are already starting to take initiatives themselves. Indeed, we must avoid people becoming addicted. After all, they drag whole families with them, both financially and psychologically. It'll just be your kids, your partner or your parents. An addiction drags families into the depths. Unfortunately, we also note that the sports sector, as well as the media sector, has become somewhat addicted to the money of the gambling industry. I am therefore pleased that you announced steps in your policy paper at the time to restrict advertising, which is a very good thing. It was also said twenty years ago that Formula 1 could not do without advertising and the infusion of Philip Morris. However, this has been achieved gradually. That is what we must strive for. What measures are you planning today and with what timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, stop in time, that is the name of the campaign that is now on television, before and after the European Championships. It's the first time we've made primetime the point that gambling can be addictive, you might have seen it. Let me be honest, gambling advertising is indeed more present than ever, everywhere. On television, online, via all kinds of channels and especially in the period of the big sports tournaments. We're literally getting beat up with advertising from the gambling companies. It is surprising, to say the least, that a public service broadcaster financed by public funds to fulfil a social mission is also fully involved in this. Even football analysts are used as a sign of the gambling world. I fully support Mr Dalle when he says that this cannot be repeated. But our government also wants to limit the excesses. Several restrictions have already been imposed during the previous legislature. For example, no gambling advertising may be broadcast during the live coverage of sports matches. We'll continue to intertwine those rules. The discussion with the Gaming Commission, with the aid sector and with the legal gambling sector is in full swing. Above all, we see that the longer the more young people are exposed to the temptation of gambling. Advertising has a lot of impact on them, especially when the messages are delivered by sports idols. Among other things, that's what we want to work on. At the same time, I also advocate nuance. There's nothing wrong with gambling as long as it happens in moderation and people stop on time. Gambling addiction exists, gambling addiction grows in our society. The consequences, as with alcohol, can indeed be devastating for families and families. The excesses need to get out, and that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear clearly that you are willing to take steps. However, I do not agree with the nuance. I believe that the objective should be a ban on gambling advertising. I am not the only one to say that, as many health organisations say. The World Health Organisation says that we need to work on attractiveness, on advertising bans, on availability by making gambling less available to young people and raising the age limit, and on affordability by ensuring that there is not too much profit and that there are limits. That is what you must work on as a whole. I understand that this has some economic impact, but that should not prevent us from moving gradually, realistically and ambitiously towards a ban on gambling. This must be done gradually, but the objective must be to ban advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u34	Minister, in 2010, ONSSAPL was given the task of launching a public procurement contract to provide a certified insurance body with group insurance for a supplementary pension in favour of local government contract staff wishing to join. The contract was awarded on 14 June 2010 to the consortium Belfius Insurance-Ethias Contrcurrents APL. Each local government was free to subscribe to the framework contract proposed by the consortium. Last week, you received a joint letter from the two institutions – one will recall that they are 100% owned by the federal state – telling you that they were denouncing the framework contract linking them to the local authorities for the supplementary pensions of their staff. More than 100,000 workers from more than 850 local authorities (municipals, CPAS, provinces, public hospitals, etc.) are directly affected by this decision. These local authorities as well as the contractual agents concerned are now in the greatest uncertainty. The deadline set by the consortium is 1 January 2022, i.e. tomorrow. Minister, how many local authorities and workers are affected by this consortium decision? What are the reasons why the consortium today denounces the framework contract? Is this because of the commitments made in 2010 when the contract was awarded? Can you clarify these commitments? Have you had contact with the consortium and the Unions of Cities and Municipalities to find a solution? Have FSMA and BNB, which are the competent supervisory authorities, been seized of the problem? What measures do you intend to take to guarantee the rights of the workers concerned? Have you informed your government partners of the situation, the contacts made and the possible solutions envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u35	Mr President, it was with dismay that I became aware of the unilateral decision of Belfius and Ethias to terminate their contract with more than 800 local authorities concerning the supplementary pension of some 100,000 contract workers. That two state-owned companies, as you said, act in this way, shocked me deeply. There is no prior consultation, either with my administration, with my cabinet, or with local and regional authorities, any. I do not, of course, have the contractual opportunity to withdraw, but I do not understand how such a cavalier approach can be made when we know the impact of such a decision on the right of nearly 100,000 workers. I also told the heads of the two institutions that I had online. Let us stop, as I read in the press this morning, mixing two things: on the one hand, the decision of two insurance companies to terminate contracts and on the other hand, the need to democratise the second pillar so that it is accessible to all, as provided for in the government agreement. It has nothing to do with it and it is misinformation. It is a desire to make it seem that it would be dangerous to make the second pillar socially more just and accessible to all. The danger is precisely to let the market dictate what it must do to society. My priority now is to make every effort to ensure that a solution is found quickly, that all the contractors concerned are constituted and continue to be able to form a second pillar after 1 July 2021. I would also point out that the decision has no impact on current pensions and the rights already created by workers. So here and now I want to reassure the workers: a solution will be found, the opposite is not an option, their pension is not in danger. My administration's been working hard since Friday. For my part, I have established contacts both with the associations of the cities and municipalities and with the Regions, which exercise control over the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, these still seem a little imprecise to me, and I see that there is still a lot of uncertainty. I also act as a mayor, and I do not hide from you that for local agents there is a great deal of concern, and that can be understood. It is not possible to question the existence of supplementary pensions. On the contrary, we must favour them. On January 1st, it's almost tomorrow. You have six months, six months to find a lasting and financially sustainable solution to this issue that could jeopardize the pension rights of local public service contractors. We can't wait any longer. I encourage you to quickly put all the forces around the table to find a solution and to inform the government partners of the initiatives taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u37	Madam Secretary, I brought you some headlines, because I do not know if you read the newspapers yesterday. "Humanity threatened by irreversible consequences of climate change." "Climate coalition calls for action." It is indeed five to twelve for the climate. With current policies, we will certainly not get there. We have to do everything we can to stay below that limit of 1.5 degree warming. Scientists and climate organisations are very much in agreement today. With the promises now being made, we are heading for even more extreme weather conditions, natural disasters and failed harvests. That 1.5 degree is certainly not a symbolic boundary, that is a matter of life or death. Meanwhile, the Vivaldi government mentions its policy as the greenest agreement ever, but the facts contradict that. This week, your own administration in the Committee on Climate Change has come to explain that around 40 to 50 billion investments are needed every year to make Belgian policy climate neutral. What your government is doing in the context of the relance is not yet a fraction of it. The Climate Coalition rightly speaks of a wake-up call. The policy must be radically different. Last week, the Belgian governments were found guilty of a faulty climate policy. It was clear: politics must take responsibility. Is this what the government is going to do to bring about an ambitious and socially just climate policy? According to your own administration, this will require at least EUR 40 billion of investment every year. Will the government also live up to that ambition?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u38	Madam Chair, Minister, yesterday was the first draft of the new IPCC report scheduled for 2022. In view of the situation, its conclusions must already be taken very seriously. What does this report tell us? That there is a significant risk that the 1.5°C threshold for global warming will be exceeded and that, in doing so, every day counts. He also says that the risks we face are dramatic: famines, lack of water, massive population displacements, collapse of entire sections of our economy, extinction of many species, etc. I do not hide from you, minister, that this new report is somewhat hopeless. After decades of fierce civil society struggle on climate issues, after years of citizen and citizen demonstrations with young people on the front lines to bring policies and economic sectors to action, each new report is a little more alarming. However, this report leaves a small door open. It states: "We need a radical transformation of processes and behaviour at all levels (individuals, communities, businesses, institutions and governments)." This report is, in other words, a new call to radically change the economic and cultural paradigm. Of course things are moving forward. Our government has clear targets in terms of greenhouse gas reduction by 2030 with a view to carbon neutrality in 2050. This week, our recovery plan was accepted by the European Commission. It should be noted here that Belgium has played the game since more than 50% of the projects are transition oriented, which is a success. That said, the road is long and requires political commitment at all times, but also from all political actors. Minister, my question is both very simple and very complicated. How does the government envisage being able to live up to the demands of scientists and citizens? How do you intend to go even further in the efforts made in terms of objectives and means to ensure, today and tomorrow, a desirable future for all on this planet?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u39	Madam President, we must pay attention to the so-called IPCC report published by the French pressbureu AFP and give rise to a lot of comments. This concerns the premature and partial version of part of the report from November 2020. I would also like to stress what I have always said: a science-based policy also means letting scientists do their job. IPCC reports owe their legitimacy and authority to the very rigorous process of verification and validation before being published. Until then, therefore, I will not make any statements on this report. Having said that, on the basis of the scientific reports that have already been published, I do not think that we will receive good news in February 2022. Indeed, after too many declarations that have not been implemented, carbon neutrality is today the framework within which all our policies must be considered. From this perspective and because I am convinced that success depends on a cross-cutting, effective and efficient management of our climate policy, this government's action on climate is based on two principles: to govern is to anticipate and more approach in silos. All of us are ministers of climate, environment and sustainable development. As I said, since carbon neutrality is now the framework within which all of our public levers and public policies must be considered, we have recently, as you mentioned in committee, an instrument to assist in strategic decision-making on climate governance. These are the trajectories for a climate neutral Belgium by 2050. This is a report that sheds new light on the possible directions to be followed and on the actions to be taken. It is based on a model that leaves nothing to chance, a model built on a series of levers. One of the main features of this model is that it describes all possible options for decarbonizing the economy, thus providing an overview of the challenges of transition, in particular some trade-offs between sectors and areas of activity. This report presents five scenarios. One focuses on business as usual that does not allow climate neutrality. The other four, taking different paths, lead us to this neutrality. One scenario focuses exclusively on behavioural changes, one scenario focuses exclusively on technology and another on a mix of the two. The latest scenario, which was intended to be available, assesses the impact of a higher energy need. If this report proposes scenarios, nothing is frozen. It is up to us, as politicians, to make informed choices and to assess the effect on our carbon trajectory. Moreover, as I have already announced, the steering of federal climate policy is based on a system of monitoring federal policies and measures. A roadmap with a detailed description and planning of the actions required, an implementation schedule including the intermediate steps, a proposal for monitoring indicators is thus being developed for each of the policies concerned (taxation, mobility, energy, economy, Régie des Bâtiments). Finally, you mentioned the recovery budget. Like my colleague, Thomas Dermine, I am one of those who believe that, alongside this stimulus budget, we must make the necessary investments for the transition. You mentioned it, too. It's a conviction I share. The discussions are about to begin. I think it is important that we bear in mind the budgetary impact, if any, that non-investment could have on future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u40	Madam Secretary, you say you do not expect good news when publishing the IPCC report. That's quite an understatement. I don't expect any good news either. However, you do not have to wait for that report to be published. The time of beautiful words and intentions has long passed. We now need concrete action. The resources released for the Vivaldi government's relance plans are peanuts compared to what is needed. Your own administration calculated that. You're just not ambitious enough. We cannot accept this, nor will the climate movement accept it. Climate policy must be socially equitable, as must the transition. This can only be done if you tackle the really big polluters. In our country, five multinationals are responsible for almost as much emissions as all households combined. It is time for binding standards on these large companies. The Climate Coalition calls for a massive mobilisation on October 10, ahead of COP 26. The PVDA will certainly be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u41	Madam Minister, I do not think I should remind you that last week the Belgian state was found guilty of climate inaction and lack of diligence in relation to the human rights impacts of climate change. And this week, a pre-report comes out and announces radical changes in our lifestyles. Minister, you have done very well to remind us that the context is changing, that it has changed. We have clear and relatively ambitious goals. I say "relatively ambitious" because we already know that scientists are asking us to cut our greenhouse gas emissions by 65%. However, we have resources, a recovery plan. But, as you said yourself, it is not enough to live up to the changes necessary to bring about a dignified and just life for everyone on this planet. It is of course policy to make these changes possible and desirable. Nor should we allow responsibility to rest solely on the shoulders of citizens. That wouldn't be fair. But today, many of us are ready to consent to very important changes. It's up to you to organize them and make them possible! We don't have time anymore. The emergency is here! You have our support to go as far as possible in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u42	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, there is good news from Europe. The light is green for the Belgian revival plan. Mr Secretary of State, you have been able to support six governments with nine different parties behind one plan. Congratulations. It was after a rematch, but perhaps it was necessary to function as a filter for too many questions and wishes from the old box. The important thing is that it can be done. Who dares claim that cooperation federalism is impossible? Let us be honest, a total of 85 projects is a lot. Nevertheless, I am pleased that there are a number of clear priorities, such as the hydrogen economy, which transcend the somewhat general framework on issues such as digitisation, climate and mobility. It is about EUR 6 billion, which is significant. The Planning Bureau forces us to do some realism, with 4,000 additional jobs and 0.2 percent increase in economic activity. I know that you aim at four times as much investment thanks to the other public authorities and the private sector. That is more, but that too will not fill the budgetary pit, nor will it secure the prosperity of the next generation. Europe is clearly in that. You wrote it in your plan, too. Structural labour market reforms are needed. I have read that Europe has not been too strict and has not been satisfied with very clear promises. The reforms have been encouraged, such as the greening of the fleet. The pension reform remains very vague. The crux is the reform of the labour market. My questions are as follows. Mr Secretary of State, what exactly are the agreements with the European Union? When can we expect results? What concrete results can we expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, you and the government received yesterday the approval and even the congratulations of the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. For my part, as a left-wing man, I would take some step back from the congratulations of the president of an institution that we know is very liberal. However, when I analyze your plan, I'm not so surprised. Thus, the majority of investments are of public inspiration, but intended for the private sector. I will take a characteristic example, namely this famous island that will be built in the North Sea to accommodate offshore wind turbines. Private people don't go on their own, because it's too expensive and too risky. As a result, you are injecting 100 million euros into this project with lost funds. Who will be the winners? It will be private companies that will produce electricity and sell it for years to profit. In committee, you confirmed that this was your design, since you said you wanted to work with private partners concerned with profitability. The other problem is the reforms that are imposed by the European Union. In this project, it pays a small down payment, but the balance will only be paid if we develop the reforms as required. I'm thinking about pensions. In this case, it is the double jackpot for employers: not only does this plan offer them profit, but it can also impose employer reforms. Mr Secretary of State, why not provide for real public investments that could enhance the state's assets, instead of financing the profits of large private companies? What is this pension reform? Will the length of careers be extended, the corresponding periods decoupled, and the pre-pensions be further addressed? Finally, how is it that these $5.9 billion will ultimately create only 2,300 jobs, according to the Planning Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u44	Mr Secretary of State, yesterday you obtained the green light from the European Commission for Belgium's Recovery and Resilience Plan. This amounts to 5.9 billion structural investments over the next few years in key projects, including climate adaptation, digitisation of schools and administrations, electric buses, charging stations, cycle paths, training, etc. I have just heard the usual bitter minds of the PTB, but as a socialist, I firmly believe in this revival through public investment. In fact, we have been calling for this for years. Despite the immense difficulties associated with this crisis, today we are experiencing a momentum, a break from a dominant discourse, since organisations such as the European Commission have completely changed their paradigm and now allow this policy of revival. We had to seize this opportunity and you managed to do it. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you and congratulate you. But my message is not just that one, Secretary of State. If this plan is a success, it is also a beginning. As discussed earlier, the IPCC pre-report on climate change was released yesterday. He is alarmist for the future of our children and calls for a radical transformation. At the same time, reducing inequality is an equally important issue. Since public investment is the answer, I invite you to continue your proactive policy of ambitious recovery. So how will you continue to increase public investment in accordance with the government agreement? How do you intend to respond to the social and climate challenge in the recovery policy? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u45	Madam President, I do think we should be very proud. The Recovery and Resilience Fund process is also proof that we can still work together in Belgium on the major challenges of tomorrow. We have an ambitious plan, a plan that is necessary for tomorrow. The issue is related to the previous question about the environmental consequences and the alarmist predictions of the IPCC. I think the European Commission has learned from previous crises. It is not by squeezing the belt in the aftermath of a crisis that we can get out of it faster, it is by investing decisively in the future by building a quality public infrastructure that will allow us to combine actions with words and decarbonize our economy. What are the next agreements with the Commission? The Commission gave it a positive assessment. It is now up to the European Council to validate it, at the latest within four weeks. A first tranche of funding will then be paid out to the tune of approximately 13% of the total amount, or EUR 700 million. The projects will then be carried out according to a defined schedule for each project, with a follow-up of the implementation of the various projects, which will be carried out every six months by the government with the assistance of the federal administration and of all the administrations of the Regions and Communities involved. With respect to the evaluation of the Federal Planning Office, this is a partial evaluation. The figures given on employment relate to the labour force which will be mobilised to carry out the various construction sites. Moreover, if you look at the profile, you will find that there is a peak in 2023, because it is in 2023 that there will be the most construction sites linked to the implementation of the recovery plan. It's kind of like building a youth training centre or a lab to increase the potential for innovation. There will then be job creation, because we will get people to work in the building, and that is one of the effects of the recovery plan, which is to put people back into employment and relaunch the machine in the period following the health crisis. Of course, a training centre is not being built to create a few dozen temporary jobs on a construction site. A project is being set up, in this case a training centre, for the tens, hundreds or thousands of young people who will gain access to employment through this infrastructure. This effect, which is ultimately an indirect effect, is not measured by the Federal Planning Office at this stage, and I will refer you to the analysis carried out by the Federal Planning Office and to the comments made by the Commissioner. With regard to the relationship between private investment and public investment, I would have liked to have this discussion with the PTB group on 21 April. In fact, Mr Van Hees, you have repeatedly asked me to organise a large session to discuss the report and the 720 pages of the recovery plan. At this very important session, which lasted more than four hours in committee and during which major investment projects were discussed, you could have made remarks before the document was submitted to the committee. I would have been pleased to discuss this with you, but unfortunately I found that there were no actual members and no alternates, even though the document had been sent. Obviously, reading 717 pages is more complicated than making videos and coming in 30 seconds in plenary a posteriori... Puis-your terminer? I think, gentlemen, that the two issues are linked: the environment and the recovery plan. This recovery plan is a very positive gesture for our country, which marks a collaboration between the different regions and the federal level to resolutely engage in the transition. We have one of the greenest plans, with 50% of the projects contributing to this transition, which your colleague, Mr Van Hees, called for in a previous speech. We can be happy about that. We will be able to work concretely over the next few years on these investment projects for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u46	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The European relaunch money is only phase 1 of the recovery policy. It must be a lever to free our labour market and our economy from a pile of rules and to give those who want and can work the chance to help secure our global prosperity, because those who are ruined today are slaves to their future. It is also important that we work on a mentality shift. It must be clear to everyone that we need everyone, that working must pay and that working is healthy. I will end by saying, "A revival without reform is like a bike without pedals."
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u47	Mr Secretary of State, I will reply first of all to your attack on our absence in committee. We were actually absent once. You know that unfortunately we are in a period of pandemic covid-19 and my colleague D'Amico could not be present for understandable reasons. I think that's a little bit small of you. We've always been the first to ask you questions. I have quoted in committee your answers as regards the link between public and private. So you had already answered that question before, which you did not do today. I understand that it was easier to talk about our absence during your speaking time than to answer the substance of the question. I see the enthusiasm of both the PS colleague and the Open Vld. It is the great socialist-liberal front on a plan that is ultimately strongly focused on the private sector, which will benefit the private sector. Nor do I have any answers to the question of the reforms imposed by Europe. This is frightening, especially when we see the status of pension reforms in our country, when the European Commission believes that this is not enough and we still need to continue to tackle pensions. I am referring here to the reforms that will be imposed by Europe to give money. You didn't answer that. It's really a problem. I would also like to point out that your plan is insufficient to achieve your own objectives. You want to reach 3.5% investment in 2024. Now, as you yourself have agreed, you can't do it. So you're not achieving your own goals!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you first of all for taking a snapshot of the situation, for reminding you of the timetable and the breakdown of the amounts of this ambitious plan, as you pointed out. Don't mind the PTB, you had to be able to pull this plan out. The green light you received yesterday from the European Commission is obviously an excellent signal for our country. As you said, the European Commission has finally understood the message. She learned from her mistakes. Even though it took time, she understood that the belt should not be tightened after a crisis. Since we have been advocating for public investment for many years, this recovery plan is obviously positive, but, Mr Secretary of State, we are counting on you, on your will to amplify these public investments but also to respond to the indispensable social and climate issue that awaits us tomorrow and in which I know that you will put all your energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, everyone has home insurance. It takes a big bite out of the budget, but one gets security and peace of mind for it. If the roof flies away in a storm, the insurance will intervene. If there is a landslide and there is damage, no panic, the insurance provides certainty. However, that certainty is now under pressure. When a house sinks due to structural drought and the shrinking of soil layers, then suddenly there is a problem. Insurance companies then dispute that they must intervene. The phenomenon of shrinking soil layers is emerging in several places, for example in South-West Flanders. In addition, climate change is expected to increase this phenomenon in the coming years. The position of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is very clear. Firstly, anyone affected by this damage, now or in the future, must always be compensated. Secondly, we want a solution quickly, but it must be put together well. The arrangement that will be made must be robust and sustainable. It must be reviewed by the Council of State and established in consultation with Parliament and the insurance sector. Madam Secretary of State, the message is therefore very clear, we must and will find a solution for the people who are now affected by this phenomenon and for the people who will be confronted with it in the future. A solution is currently being worked very hard. There are also discussions within the government to arrive at a fair and legally certain solution. What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u50	Madam Secretary of State, if the insurance logic is followed, we can leave the insurance of natural disasters perfectly to the private sector. With these words, the then VLD 16 years ago embraced with great enthusiasm the new law to ensure that a natural disaster is guaranteed, for example drought causing cracks in the home. That seems obvious, but for 2005 it was not, not all over the country. That law was passed at the time. That was not a symbolic policy, but a concrete law to protect those concerned. It also gave a clear mandate to the insurance sector to ensure that those involved do not pay for the rising costs. Unfortunately, the insurance logic, brought up at the time by Pierre Lano from Harelbeke, did not go along, because instead of doing their job, the insurance companies found a loophole in the law for 16 years, which meant that they did not have to pay for those tens of thousands of euros. On such an amount or even more, it sometimes turns out. Now it appears that 16 years ago they successfully ensured that the law was not followed, which was not the intention. Sixteen years ago, Socialists, Liberals and many others in Parliament agreed that these people would be insured and reimbursed in such a situation. However, that agreement is not being kept and then there are two things that can be done: either we help the people affected, or I think that the objective of all of us is to take the side of the insurers and reward their bad behavior. Our choice is clear, Madam Secretary of State. That is why we have also proposed an interpretative law to close that loophole. The insurers are of course opposed to this, because they do not want to pay compensation. We also know that you are working on a solution, but it is important for us to find a solution for all those who have been affected for the past 16 years. The summer has begun, the drought is not solved. Our solution is ready, but we would like to hear from you how you see the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u51	Madam Secretary of State, it is no coincidence that a number of Members of Parliament from the heavy clay soil region, which is the subject of today's debate, are asking questions. There was recently an information meeting where more than 70 families from South-West Flanders and many families from Hainaut were affected by cracks in their homes due to the shrinking and expansion of the clay layer due to the drought. The problem has already been well outlined by colleagues. Everyone will think they have insurance for that. Since 2005, damage caused by natural disasters has been included in fire insurance. People often pay a few hundred euros a year for their fire insurance and think that the insurer will act. Unfortunately, however, we come very quickly to the cliché that insurers find conditions rather quickly that they do not have to pay anything, and that is also the case here. The insurers say that the cause is the shrinking and expansion of the clay layer and not the drought, which is included under the conditions of fire insurance in the event of damage caused by natural disasters. But that doesn't send a message to those 70 families. Adjusting the foundations alone costs 25 to 30,000 euros. Then the cracks in the apartment still have to be repaired. For many families this amounts to a burden of tens of thousands of euros. The problem was on the table in the Flemish Parliament. They wanted to see if a solution could be found through broad weather insurance. It then shifted to the federal level and that's how it ended up with you, Madam Secretary of State. I understand you're consulting with the consumer organisations and with Assuralia. So I would have liked to know a state of affairs on this matter. Let me be clear: we want a right-wing solution for these dozens of affected families, today and in the future. We just had a little bit of climate debate, so it's not gonna stop. I hope that today you will bring good news to the families who are already in harm's way and who may be damaged in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u52	Madam Secretary of State, groundwater is historically low and there are more and more periods of persistent drought. We are now facing the summer, and unfortunately we will have to re-establish that not only in South-West Flanders but also in our region houses are going to show more and more cracks and cracks. For the victims, for the residents, invoices can be effective up to the tens of thousands of euros. What are these people doing? They address their insurer, because they pay their fire insurance every year. There'll be an insurance expert coming by. If they're lucky, he'll stay for five minutes. He takes a picture and leaves. A while later, these people get a message that the insurance does not intervene because it is not about a soil degradation but about a reduction in the soil. Sorry, they say, draw your plan. I don't think that's normal. This is not normal because the legislation on insurance was amended in 2005. At that time it was stipulated that natural disasters are also covered by fire insurance, and thus also damage resulting from a slow and invisible process. This reduction in soil is clearly such a "slow and invisible process." The preparatory work of that legislation also shows very clearly that it was the legislator's intention to provide very broad coverage. How come these people don't get the damages? There must finally be legal certainty for these people. I read today that you have been working on a proposal for months. Then I have good news for you, because there is also a concrete proposal on the table in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to ensure, by means of interpretative law, that these people are finally paid the compensation they are entitled to. Madam Secretary of State, what are you waiting for? What are you preventing these people from finally giving compensation for the damage they've suffered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u53	Madam President, I am well aware of the problem of securing ground reduction. I have been working for a long time to find a lasting and valid solution for the victims. Anyone who has suffered damage must be compensated, but must then also be able to live in a safer house, not in a house filled with cracks. I want to move on, by the way. I want to prevent anyone who suffers from legal uncertainty and costly court cases from being exposed. The solution I'm working on is solid and waterproof. I am aware that a bill for interpretative law was discussed in the Chamber, based on the proposal of Test Purchase, while I myself am working on a proposal. I am glad that my colleagues understand the need for a solution across party boundaries. However, I would prefer to continue working on the proposal that we are currently working on within the government. After all, there are a number of problems with such an interpretive law. According to the opinion of the Council of State of 13 March 2017, there are two legal problems. Firstly, the interpretative law can mainly be used in exceptional cases, such as an unforeseen reversal of the case law. The case law and the doctrine of justice clearly indicate that this seven-year law has been unclear for a very long time. So there is no unforeseen turnaround. Secondly, in its judgment in No 102 of 21 June 2006, the Constitutional Court ruled that an interpretative law cannot reverse a judicial decision and there will therefore be discrimination between the cases which already had a judicial decision and those which still need to be decided. Furthermore, non-compliance with the requirements regarding the admissibility of retroactive effect is a reason for the Constitutional Court's annulment or unconstitutionality. You understand that, bearing in mind the consumer, I prefer a legal solution that will not be destroyed or declared unconstitutional, let alone that I want to cause expensive court cases for consumers. In addition to the formal legal problems with the interpretative law, I am not convinced that this will provide a sound solution to the problem. This law will be able to compensate for the damage to the wall, but not to ensure the stability of the house. I would therefore ask the insurers to help with the further stabilisation of drought-stricken houses. By means of thorough and thorough consultation, therefore, I would like to come up with insurance benefits which will lead to more stability of the home. The government's current approach must therefore ensure more stable houses, avoid costly court cases, create more legal certainty and lead to a negotiated agreement, including for the cases of the past. On Monday we will be back together with the insurance sector, together with the cabinet of my colleague Dermagne and with the Regions, to discuss further a solution to this issue. My message to the insurance sector is quite clear: it will have to accept its responsibility. Rather that, than having to experience within six months that there are victims who have to appear before a court, even under this interpretative law, in order to claim and reclaim their rights. Legal certainty is a very good thing for me. Giving people false hope and risk saddled them with cracks and expensive lawsuits, I really don't like it. Finally, I would like to say that the insurance aspect of this dossier is indeed a federal competence, but the prevention of the phenomenon is indeed in regional hands. These include water policy, tree cutting, building regulations in dry-sensitive areas and land-use planning. The regions must therefore also assume their responsibility to reduce the number of cases of land shrinkage. The federal government is already taking on the commitment to protect the consumer as effectively as possible with a solid and sustainable solution to these distressing situations, both in the past and in the future. You can count on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u54	Madam Secretary of State, you were clear to everyone in this House. We are working hard on this necessary solution, a solution for all the families that have now been affected and a solution for those who will still be faced with this problem in the future. Everyone wants a quick solution, as we clearly heard earlier. The Open Vld wants that, too. The insurance sector must want that, too. The solution must be sustainable and legally certain. If a house fails and is full of cracks, the owner does not want a legal swamp, then he wants clarity and a clear legal framework that is there to help him. It is the responsibility of the government and of this Parliament to achieve this. We are therefore awaiting the government's decisive response.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u55	The question is very simple. What do we want? Do we want those families that are confronted with this and already pay a high policy, because they are already expensive, protected, or do we just want the insurers to be able to do what they want? The answer is clear. Everyone's said that, too. The insurance companies just have to comply with the law. It's as simple as that. Actually, we're not asking for anything new. It's already in the law. Families pay an average of 1.716 euros in Belgium for their insurance. Of course, that's not just for fire insurance. An average package is already quite a lot. We can expect something for that in return, especially if it is already provided for in the law. That is, in fact, only obvious. Madam Secretary of State, you say that we must be careful that it is certainly legally watertight. We want that, of course, but in the few cases that have been there in the past, the victim has always been right, as far as I have been able to see. That law, or at least what the intention of that law was, is therefore quite clear. It is not fair that an owner should be both in cracks and in court in order to be right on the basis of the existing law. At least we're in that situation now. For 16 years, bypassing a law and actually getting away with it until now cannot be passed by the Vooruit Group. I am pleased that you also confirm that previous cases or families affected should be included in the past. That's very important. We need a quick solution. We are at the beginning of the summer and the drought problem will only come back in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u56	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I believe that you have started very well by saying that those who have damage must be compensated. That's right. I sincerely hope so, too. In the rest of your answer, I have heard the conditional wisdom a few times. I understand that you still have to speak conditionally today, but at the end I have also heard a clear commitment from you. I really hope, Madam Secretary of State, that you place them on their responsibilities. I believe that colleagues are right. There's damage. Those people didn't ask for that. Those people paid contributions. Those dozens of families with many thousands of euros of damage must be compensated. You must provide a legal certainty framework. I really hope that you will take responsibility for this within reasonable time. You say that colleagues' legislative proposals may not be perfect. Well, I hope you will come up with your own alternative very quickly, which is supported by the sector and by everyone, so that a solution can be found quickly for those many families.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u57	Madam Secretary of State, I brought my magazine, because you have raised a number of legal arguments. I expected that, so in my head I went right through my course again. Firstly, with regard to the use or non-use of an interpretative law, I think it is quite clear that the intention of the legislator is being ignored here. An interpretive law is the best way to do that. Moreover, if you make a proposal now, it can only affect future damages. One can never compensate for the damage that was already there. This can only be done if one works with an interpretive law. That is a second reason why this interpretative law is needed. A third element you mentioned was that there might be discrimination. But that discrimination is just as well now, because now what is now is sometimes interpreted in one way and sometimes in another. That argument therefore does not apply. I think it's very clear. Everyone pays more than enough for their fire insurance. It is high time for insurers to fulfil their obligations. That is why our proposal is on the table. It was explained yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs. It is high time we got to work fast, because summer is coming and people need to be compensated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u58	That brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u59	I think we had to move on to the lines. I give the floor to Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u60	Madam President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we had a good budget debate this morning. It just didn't get rounded up on the drop, so we're taking it back now. I'd like to take the opportunity to give you a few comments. I promise I won't make it too long. I think Mr Depraetere has said the most important thing. There will be budgetary debates here in this House and they will promise to produce some fireworks once the government really gets going and makes some socio-economic decisions. I would like to reply on a number of issues, including to the Secretary of State. In general, it was nice and interesting to be able to follow how you respond from the first line, in terms of style and approach. It's my analysis, and you'll do whatever you want with it. You've already found a good technique. With allure, you have managed to include a lot of political issues in your seemingly technical answer. If you continue on that slope, there might be some music in it. You have made a lot of political statements. Some of them struck me, I would like to go over them quickly and test them against the suggestions I made during my first speech. What did I ask you? I have advocated that the budget should not be seen as a direct object, but as an active part of it. You have made a number of very interesting remarks, for which I thank you. Firstly, you say that you want to follow the situation very systematically. Reports are also coming from the Planning Bureau and the Monitoring Committee. That brings me straight to the question of sharing them with Parliament as soon as they are available. Secondly, you are replying to this positive point: it is not yet possible to assess the budgetary impact of the past social dialogue, but that the services of both the Budget and the Finance Department are working on it. In this respect too, I repeat my request to share the information with Parliament as soon as it is available, even if the status of the decision is not quite clear, since we do not know whether or not FGTB and ABBV will split up and if so, when or not. That's basically what it's all about. In any case, it is interesting to note that the trade union is putting the Community debate back at the centre. On the other hand, your answer was politically spiced. Politically, first of all, I noticed that in response to a question which the opposition would ask to update the photograph, you said that the government had no choice but to close at any given time and that you could not give updated macroeconomic figures. That's a convenient way of answering a question that hasn't been asked. At least I didn't ask them. At no time have I asked you to update all or some of the basic parameters. What we have asked for is to update what is feasible. One concrete example I gave was that of exceeding the central index, which is a very specific dossier. That is not the whole growth parameter, which needs to be determined and on which there may be some uncertainty. On the other hand, it is about something very concrete, namely the central index. By giving a political answer, you avoided a technical reply, which was cleverly done. Secondly, I made the suggestion that you should be clearer to your colleagues, that they should be slightly called to order and, in any case, that they should not communicate when they do not have sufficient budgetary coverage. For that point, too, you have come up with a number of figures in different areas, but in fact you have turned your colleagues away again. You have not faced any fellow Member with the fact that he or she makes statements and communicates without sufficient or full budgetary coverage. Let me give you a few brief examples. You just leave the figures on the payback effects for the activation policy. You say this is a policy ambition. Those were your words. So you keep the figures, even though there is no dossier on this issue. In any case, I did not hear you call your fellow Minister Dermagne to order. Mrs. Dedonder of Defense is also protecting you. After all, in 2021, less money will go to the Defense Department, but you are suggesting that this is not about saving, but a shift. Indeed, it is very specific about the resources for the headquarters in Evere and for the infrastructure for the A400M, which will be spent not in 2021 but in 2022. You say that the government will do the spending and not actually save; it will only pay today, but in 2022, which makes you decide that there will be no savings on Defence. With all due respect, Madam Secretary of State, our military have no message. We are talking about EUR 163 million. If you can move EUR 163 million to next year, you can certainly find with some goodwill investment projects that would normally happen next year to push them forward to this year. In this way, we would already be sending the signal to the Defense Department today that we are not saving and that we are even achieving a number of things that need to be done more quickly. There are plenty of files available, especially in the area of infrastructure. It is not even a recurring cost, but real investment files that would allow the Defense Department, if you or the government give the go-ahead, to move faster. In this respect, you are actually protecting your colleague, the Minister of Defence. The same applies to the Minister of Justice. You have been more correct, you have actually given the answer that Minister Van Quickenborne apparently did not want or could not give. So thank you. Mr De Wit noted the budgetary allocations very well and you also indicated that you would deliver them in writing. In the meantime, I even hear that you have already delivered them to the services. Technically that was a good answer, although at the same time there was quite a bit of politics in it. The political message, at least I have heard, is that a number of things have already been decided and are in KB's, that a KB will be arriving very soon or that it has been discussed in the government, but that a number of things will have to be done by the end of the year. In fact, you said to Van Quickenborne in an elegant way that his files are not all ready and we will see at the end of the year whether he will actually get all those cents. This was, of course, Mr De Wit's point, namely that there are several tens of millions of euros, of which there is still no 100% budgetary clarity or and how exactly they will be allocated and spent. I come to the last and, of course, the most fundamental point. I also asked you to look forward. Where are we going with the budget and will the government achieve its ambition? Even then, you will give technically good answers, with again quite a bit of politics. What I have remembered from your political message is that you are literally saying this, neither of the two routes of the Supreme Court of Finance, but have followed his philosophy. In fact, you say that you have agreed on your own dynamics to save in a certain way, referring to the government agreement, in relation to fixed and variable costs, and you put the story of the Supreme Court of Finance next to you. Again, you put it nicely, but your message is politically very clear. In particular, you say that the government does not follow the advice of the experts of the Supreme Court of Finance, and you simply continue to follow your own budget path stubbornly and steadfastly. Let me rephrase. I have questioned you on this matter several times in committee. In response to that, I have already heard you say in a more punitive way that the government wants to move towards a deficit of 3%. The verdict in that regard was not very punitive today. So far my replies to your answers, Madam Secretary of State, for which I would like to thank you once again. In my opinion, the real news was not in the debates and your answers, but it was in Michael Freilich's question about the financing of the security infrastructure in Antwerp, where a very concrete proposal was on the table for cooperation. That's not about huge budgets. It is about sites of communities that are really under threat. Mr Leysen's answer was that it was not up to the federal level to pay for it. The city has to do everything. Madam Secretary of State, I sincerely hope that is not your answer. I hope that the government, which today takes responsibility for guaranteeing security through the federal budgets through the defence sector, will continue to do so in the future, albeit through the budgets of the federal police, so that citizens can sleep safely and with peace of mind. In any case, the hand to work together in this area remains outstretched. We call on everyone to approve our amendment. But even if that does not happen, we remain willing to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u61	Madam President, I can only say that Mr Flahaut was right this afternoon when he doubted that Mr Loones could conclude his reply within two minutes. Mr Loones, would you have just thanked us and now you have taken the opportunity to entertain us? I always love listening to you, but this afternoon we really didn't have time for that anymore. I also note that Mr Loones is very surprised at the fact that Mrs De Bleeker is doing politics. Mrs De Bleeker is a member of a political party and Secretary of State in the government, there is the definition of a politician.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u62	Madam President, I would like to make three more comments on the statement made by the Secretary of State. In the context of controlling finances, she said literally, I quote: "I assume that every minister takes responsibility." I do not know if you have listened carefully to Mrs Marghem, who said: "Mme Dedonder n'est pas mon amie." We found here yesterday in plenary that ministers coming out of a committee meeting are not prepared to take their seats here in order to break down their colleagues. We have also seen in previous sessions that ministers are not prepared to replace each other in the event of illness. Madam Secretary of State, I wish you every success in assuming that ministers in this government will act as one team of 11 million and will assume their responsibilities. You also used the imagery that the budget is a photo. Mr Piedboeuf already mentioned l'art du possible, the art of the possible. Mrs Marghem added a little to that when she said that one should look at l'esprit or the spirit of the photograph. She also called the picture flou. Madam Secretary of State, in that regard too, you will still have work to do to vote the violins with your government partners. However, the last thing I noticed, Madam Secretary of State, is that the government is committed to the stability programme. I have already mentioned in my speech that, on the basis of answers from Flemish Minister Diependaele, it is quite clear that the stability programme is indicative and non-binding and that it was not approved by the Länder. So the government is actually committing itself to nothing, and that is the problem with budgetary adjustment. For us, it is the adjustment of the missed opportunity, a missed opportunity to give an initial impetus to the adjustment of expenditure and to start making the country's finances healthier. The budgetary adjustment does not create any confidence in us that the government, with seven parties and four ideologies, will manage to control the situation by 2022. The Michel Government has never really succeeded in doing so. We have to be honest about this and we are concerned that, in view of what we have been presented and heard today, the Croo Government will not be able to achieve the budgetary objectives either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u63	Madam President, I do not wish to reply to the reply of the Secretary of State. However, I would like to address Mr Vermeersch by telling him, first of all, that I choose my friends, which is quite legitimate. On the other hand, this has nothing to do with the federal operation. Our colleague Theo Francken referred to the locality from which Mrs Dedonder and I came. Having said that, it is clear that with you, you must avoid finesse. Indeed, when you try to explain a situation with finesse, you jump on the occasion to try to transpose to your sauce what you are told. I spoke earlier about a blurred image simply to explain that taking a picture of a reality that changes all the time is extremely difficult, that adjustment was precisely an exercise that tended to make the same blurred picture that one takes, at a given moment, as close as possible to reality, and that this reality showed, at present, elements of recovery in our economic life that could really lead us to believe that revenues could offset all the expenses that had to be made to help all sectors in need both in the North and in the South of the country. I think it was useful to repeat this to make it clear in your mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u64	Mrs. Marghem, you say we should be careful with finesses. Well, I do, too. The essence is that when one speaks of the majority, it is not so much a question of listening to the words, but of reading between the lines what is said. Between the rules you have given a very clear signal, a political finesse which I have understood very well and which I would like to mention here. The risk is not so much that you would share finesses, the risk is that we read the finesses between the lines in your answers and your replies here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, with regard to structural reforms, you have still not given us an employment rate target, at least until the end of the legislature. I hope that the lines will move in this respect. Earlier, we talked about the end of the zero lifetime contribution measure on the first commitment, and that suggests to me that the government sees the recovery in a particular way. European budgets are being used, but we forget to support existing jobs, to support self-employed people and SMEs. As far as the victims of terrorism are concerned, you tell us that we are cutting budgets because it is a volume effect. This response is inaudible to victims given the difficulties they continue to face and the reasonable and legitimate demands they make. I am not at all the government's position on this matter. If the budget is too large compared to the measures as they exist, then open the door to allow further progress for the victims of terrorism. On health and pensions, progress could be made. This is our duty following the attacks in Brussels. About long covid patients, I will pass on your response to the many people involved. I can already tell you that they won't particularly appreciate it. This is the least we can say given the initial refusal, then the promises, with nothing concrete on arrival. I will, of course, continue with your colleague, Minister of Health. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u66	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u67	We move on to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the Ways and Means budget for the fiscal year 2021. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1920/1+8) We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the Budget for the financial year 2021. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1920/1+8) The bill has 13 articles, as well as tables in the annex. The draft law contains 13 articles as well as tables in annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u68	• 16 • Björn Anseuw cs (1920/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u69	• 18 Marco Van Hees cs (1920/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u70	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles reserved as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. We turn to the sections of the bill containing the third adjustment to the General Estimates for the fiscal year 2021. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt. 85) (1921/1+27) We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the third adjustment of the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2021. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1921/1+27) The bill has 36 articles, as well as tables in the annex. The draft law contains 36 articles as well as tables in annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u71	• 30.. Sander Loones cs (1921/28)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u72	• 37 Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs (1921/28)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u73	• 32 – Joy Donné cs (1921/28) • 28................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u74	Reserved: the amendments and Article 1.01.2 and the tables in the Annex. Sustained: the amendments and Article 1.01.2 as well as the tables in annex. Articles 1.01.1, 1.01.3 to 1.11.5, 2.02.1, 2.02.2, 2.06.1, 2.06.2, 2.12.1, 2.13.1 to 2.13.3, 2.14.1, 2.16.1, 2.16.2, 2.17.1, 2.17.2, 2.11.8, 2.23.1, 2.23.2, 2.24.1 as adopted by the Committee, 2.25.1, 2.32.1, 2.32.2, 2.33.2, 2.33.1, 2.33.2, 2.44.1, 2.44.2, 2.46.1, 2.46.2, 3-01-1, 4.01.1, 5.01.1, 6.01.1 and 7.01.1 were adopted article by article. Articles 1.01.1, 1.01.3 to 1.01.5, 2.02.1, 2.02.2, 2.06.1, 2.06.2, 2.12.1, 2.13.1 to 2.13.3, 2.14.1 to 2.16.2, 2.17.1, 2.17.2, 2.18.1, 2.23.1, 2.23.2, 2.24.1 as adopted by the Commission, 2.25.1, 2.32.1, 2.32.2, 2.33.2, 2.44.2, 2.44.2, 2.46.1, 2.46.2, 3-01-1, 4.01.1, 6.01.1 and 7.01.1 are adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u76	As part of the renewal of half of the terms of office of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat, the Chamber must proceed with the appointment of the alternate members. In the context of the renewal of half of the mandates of the Notarial Appointment Committees, the Chamber should appoint the alternate members. Nominations were announced during the plenary meetings of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. Candidates were announced at the plenary sessions of 28 January 2021, 25 March 2021 and 12 May 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2021, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary meeting on 8 July 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 June 2021, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 8 July 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 25 June 2021 until Thursday 8 July 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and the parliamentary document are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 25 June 2021 until Thursday 8 July 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot paper will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday 8 July 2021 in Room 3. - The urn with the ballots will be opened during the plenary session of Thursday 8 July 2021 in Room 3. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u77	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u78	Mrs De Block, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal which contains urgent provisions on justice, item No. 2084.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u79	Madam President, it is a proposal from Mrs Gabriels to be discussed in the Committee on Justice. This proposal contains a number of urgent provisions which have been taken out of the preliminary draft law passed by the Council of Ministers on 21 May and for which the opinion of the Council of State is expected today or tomorrow. Since some of these measures are in force on 1 September, Mrs Gabriels calls for urgency so that this bill can be dealt with before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u80	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u81	The government called for urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on temporary support measures was introduced in response to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 2070/1. The Government has requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, No 2070/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u82	Madam President, the government is calling for the urgency of this draft law, which aims to extend the aid measures on the covid pandemic until the end of September. It concerns the extension of temporary unemployment, the double right of bridging and so on. In view of the circumstances, it is necessary to provide for such aid in certain sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u83	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u84	Then there remains the question of the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u85	Madam President, I heard what Mr Laaouej said earlier in reply to my question of order. In the meantime, I have understood in the corridors that there is a broad consensus on my question. What happened yesterday was across a line that perhaps everyone knows should not be crossed. I will retable this motion if necessary next week if the solution offered by the Conference of Presidents, and for which I am very open, does not respond to our question. I'm sure I'd like to give all the odds to that attempt. If, in future, the government wishes to defend another urgency, I am prepared to do so on its behalf. Maybe that could fill a hole once in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u86	Thank you, Mr De Roover. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u87	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 16 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 16 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 138/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 138/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried twice to open the eyes of Minister Dermagne and the government, but it was apparently not to benefit. I note that people appear to be blind to social reality. In the past, it has often been shown that my proposals said that there was no social relevance, but that a few months later I was told that I was right. The fact that the economy is getting back on track is certainly a good thing. However, this brings with it a number of things as a steep increase in transport costs. In the meantime, the container ships have increased more than tenfold. On a global scale, we are faced with a particularly severe resource scarcity caused by rising demand as a result of economic recovery. This means that the more and more companies start charging rising prices in the value chain, which will ultimately result in a higher price level for consumers. We're on a hinge moment, because it'll never be the way it has been. It is now beginning to see that price increases that are passed on to consumers will in general not be withdrawn. This will thus also lead to an increase in the inflation basket. Because there is often simplistic work or thought in this House, I will give you a simplistic example. I hope you understand. In a bad potato season the price of the fries increases, but when the year after there is a good harvest, the price of those fries does not fall. If the Minister has listened carefully, he may have understood by now. Colleagues, this means that inflation would imply that people's savings would be reduced in value, purchasing power would be reduced and wages would need to be increased. It will then be passed on to the consumer again in order to get a new inflation in the end. So you smell from afar that life will become more expensive for people. If a Minister of Economy doesn't know how an economy works, he must be given at least decent assistance instead of continuing to claim that inflation will be only 1.6 %. Madam President, with this motion, we are asking very clearly for maximum protection of consumers' purchasing power, for everything to be done, and not to leave behind to limit inflation as much as possible, and for measures to ultimately reduce our import dependence through incentives to reshor certain important sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u89	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u90	Yes 96 Yes No. 33 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u91	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 16 June 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 16 June 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 142/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jan Briers. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 142/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Katleen Bury; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jan Briers. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 January 2021, Europol announced that the world's most dangerous ransomware network had been wound up. It is malicious software that blocks computers, after which users have to pay ransom to unlock the encryption of their computer and get back their data. The great defeat of cybercriminals would be due to Europol and Eurojust. Following research by Mr Lode Goukens, professor of European and World Institutions at the Thomas More Hogeschool, it is now clear that the victims are still in the cold because of a bunch of umbrellas opening up national ministries of justice, police, Europol, Eurojust and other institutions. I quote: "Justitie and police, including in Belgium and the Netherlands, do nothing with the stolen data about the victims or with the seized amounts of money and crypto coins. The victims who didn't appear to be part of the government were never contacted. However, they have completely deciphered the central server of the Emotet network and claim that it was the greatest victory against the creators of ransomware in history. The latter is more and more like gratuite eloquence." In addition, the police claim to have no time to inform all victims and so they transferred the hot potato to CERT.be. CERT.be then skilfully transferred responsibility to the Internet providers. The government therefore leaves citizens, associations and businesses in the cold. The latter must check for their e-mail address in the list of victims. That is the world upside down, all the more so because the European GDPR Regulation provides a clear basis for data sharing. Neither the federal police, nor the FCCU, nor CERT.be, nor SCSC, nor the Justice, nor Eurojust, nor Europol wanted to serve ready wine after specific questions. That is why I put it in the Committee on the Interior and in the Committee on Justice. The answer of both ministers was so woolly and unclear that I fear that a lack of knowledge in this matter and incompetence could be a factor. There was also no cooperation between the various ministers and one clearly structured response. The police are with Minister Verlinden. The legal basis for sharing victim data and the agreements with CERT.be in non-European countries were with the Prime Minister. The GDPR story was with Secretary of State Michel. The only thing Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne knew how to say is that neither the police nor the Justice Department in Belgium were involved in the operation. Hence, colleagues, this motion. Firstly, to ensure that Europol is not only at the service of the public authorities. Secondly, to notify and inform all victims. Thirdly, to initiate the necessary procedures so that the victims can exhaust the necessary remedies to be compensated in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u93	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u94	Yes 102 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u95	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u96	Yes 98 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2003/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2003/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u98	Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2045/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2045/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u99	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Nabil Boukili cs to insert a recital D/1. (1842/5) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Nabil Boukili cs inserting recital D/1. (1842/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u100	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u101	Vote on Amendment No 17 by Nabil Boukili cs to insert a recital H/1. (1842/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Nabil Boukili cs inserting recital H/1. (1842/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u102	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No. 18 by Nabil Boukili cs to insert a point II/1(n). ( 1842/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 from Nabil Boukili cs to insert a point II/1(n). (1842/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u103	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u104	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u105	Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1842/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1842/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u107	Yes 81 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1993/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1993/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u109	Yes 108 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2000/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2000/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u111	Yes 110 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2001/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2001/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u113	Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1943/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1943/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u114	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 2/1(n). (2071/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 2/1(n). (2071/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u115	Yes 59 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (2071/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (2071/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u116	Yes 59 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u117	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u118	Yes [[109]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2071/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2071/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u119	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u120	Yes 104 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1979/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1979/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u121	Vote on Amendment No 12 by Dries Van Langenhove on article 10. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Dries Van Langenhove to Article 10. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u122	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Theo Francken cs on article 10. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Theo Francken cs to Article 10. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u123	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Dries Van Langenhove on article 10. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Dries Van Langenhove to Article 10. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u124	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Theo Francken cs on article 11. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Theo Francken cs to Article 11. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u125	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Theo Francken cs on Article 16. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Theo Francken cs to Article 16. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u126	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Theo Francken cs on Article 20. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Theo Francken cs to Article 20. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u127	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 97 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 20 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Theo Francken cs on article 27. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Theo Francken cs to Article 27. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u128	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Theo Francken cs on article 28. (1980/6) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Theo Francken cs to Article 28. (1980/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u129	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u131	Yes 95 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1980/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1980/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u132	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz on Article 2. (1981/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz to Article 2. (1981/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u133	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Vanessa Matz on the inscription. (1981/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Vanessa Matz on the title. (1981/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u134	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u136	Yes 105 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. H It will be sent to the Senate. (1981/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (1981/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u137	Vote on Amendment No 1 to Article 7 by Vanessa Matz. (2034/6) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Vanessa Matz to Article 7. (2034/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u138	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 to Article 11 by Vanessa Matz. (2034/6) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz on Article 11. (2034/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u139	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 11 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u141	Yes 121 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2034/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2034/7) Reason abstinence? [[No.]] Reason for abstention? [[(Non]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u143	Yes 121 Yes Non 18 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1415/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1415/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u145	In 2017, soldiers opened deadly fire twice when they were attacked in Brussels. In both cases, there was no problem after examination. The question is, however, where should the military draw the line? When can he use his own power and when can he use his firearm? Or can the military, whom we sent out of the barracks, just watch and hope that the police arrive soon? The so-called rule of engagement in the use of force is unfortunately unknown in domestic contracts. So we send heavily armed military forces out on the streets on behalf of the government without establishing a legal framework on their rights and duties. That's what Tim Vandenput and Jasper Pills put in Knack. They advocate a good initiative, which I fully embrace. It is also for this reason that I have drawn up a motion for a resolution. After all, I think it is important that we do our work here in Parliament and not just in the press, with which I did not say that this would not be good. In this country we are actually very good at naming and tackling problems only after they arise; we do not prevent them, and I regret that. Let's look forward. We learned from the pandemic that we need to be prepared for the worst. Well, today there are soldiers in our streets and they will not all leave. For example Operation Spring Guardian (OSG), the safety plan to secure our country's nuclear installations, does not stop on September 1st and continues. Who knows, maybe we should send soldiers out again after an attack; let's hope not. Two weeks ago, we had to do that in search of Jürgen Conings. How many soldiers did we send out for that? We must give these soldiers a proper legal framework so that they know what they are and what they are not allowed to do. Let me give you a concrete example. A few weeks ago, a day after the attack on the synagogue in Vienna, I see a suspicious person, not because he had a beard and prone skin, but because he wore a large backpack on his belly. The military stopped that man from doing so I took a picture and asked if they could look into his backpack, because it is weird to walk around one hot day with a backpack on the belly. What those soldiers have done is illegal, as they are not allowed to stop someone from searching. Our proposal for a resolution calls for the rules of engagement to be clearly defined. We want our troops to know what may or may not happen. During the discussion at the committee meeting, the reaction on the proposal was, in fact, clearly positive. That is why I find it particularly regrettable that the committee voted against it. Is that merely because the proposal comes from the opposition? Well, I'm sorry about that. Anyone who writes in an opinion piece that these rules must be implemented, I say:put your money where your mouth is and vote for it. I conclude with a quote from colleagues Tim Vandenput and Jasper Pillen: "This cannot be repeated. A legislative initiative must be taken by the Minister in this regard." That is exactly what I am asking for with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u146	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u147	Yes 93 Yes Non 37 No. Abstensions 5 Abstentions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1784/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1784/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u148	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Björn Anseew cs to Article 2. (1920/9) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Björn Anseuw cs on Article 2. (1920/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u149	Yes [[47]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (1920/9) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (1920/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u150	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (1920/9) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (1920/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u151	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 2, as amended by the committee, was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 as amended by the committee was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an Article 12/1(n). (1920/9) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an article 12/1(n). (1920/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u152	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marco Van Hees cs to Article 13. (1920/9) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Marco Van Hees cs on article 13. (1920/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u153	Yes [[11]] Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. The annexed tables, as amended by the Committee, were adopted. The attached tables shall be adopted as amended by the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u155	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1920/10) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1920/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u156	Vote on Amendment No 30 by Sander Loones cs to Rule 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Sander Loones cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u157	Yes 53 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 27 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u158	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u159	Vote on Amendment No 29 by Theo Francken cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Theo Francken cs to article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u160	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Michael Freilich cs to Rule 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Michael Freilich cs on Article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u161	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 37 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u162	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u163	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Anneleen Van Bossuyt cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u164	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u165	Vote on amendment No 26 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u166	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Kathleen Depoter cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u167	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Joy Donné cs to Rule 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Joy Donné cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u168	Yes [[46]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Björn Anseew cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Björn Anseuw cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u169	Yes [[45]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Kathleen Depoter cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u170	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 25 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1.01.2. (1921/28) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1.1.02. (1921/28) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u171	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1.01.2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1.01.2 was adopted. The annexed tables, as amended by the Committee, were adopted. The attached tables shall be adopted as amended by the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u173	Yes [[80]] Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1921/29) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1921/29)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-24-definitief-55-plenair-ip114x.u174	We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 30 June 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, June 30, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
