ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u1	I would like to welcome everyone. Last Wednesday we had our last regular committee meeting. I concluded by saying that we would see each other again in the month of September in normal circumstances. That was outside a decision of the Minister who communicated on Friday that there was a resignation of Mr Boucké as top man of ADIV. We received and questioned Mr Boucké here last Wednesday during a hearing. He then gave a warrior and expert impression. There have been a lot of questions over the last few days, including in the media. The N-VA Group has asked for the meeting of this committee, but many other colleagues have also tabled oral questions on this matter. I suggest that the Minister should first take the floor for an introduction and that there should then be the possibility of taking a stand and asking a supplementary question. Mrs Ponthier is referred to as a reporter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, as at each of your sessions at which my presence has been requested since 17 May, I wanted to come back to you to explain to you and to explain what I have done following the Conings case. For this session, I will return to the background and substantive elements of the decision to replace Major-General Philippe Boucké with Vice-Admiral Wim Robberecht as Head of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS). The SGRS has been facing many challenges for several years, as reflected in the reports of the R Committee and the work of the Monitoring Committee on Attacks. The pressure on this service was very strong before I arrived. In addition to the challenges of means, infrastructure and priorities, the personnel challenge is first and foremost. First, it is difficult to recruit sufficient civilian and military personnel. Secondly, it struggles to retain this staff, whether because of internal changes or the conditions proposed by other public or private actors. I identified this problem as soon as I took office and chose to make it one of my priorities. This is the reason for the existence of the POP – People Our Priority plan. That is why I also believe that a re-evaluation of the conditions of Defence personnel is necessary. Unfortunately, in the circumstances you know, mistakes have been made. In February 2021, General Boucké gave several notable interviews during which he referred, in particular, to the presence of far-right soldiers in the army. As a result of these interviews, some reassuring explanations were given to me by General Boucké, who explained to me that the risk was under control. The subsequent events unfortunately revealed another reality. When the case at hand broke out, I had to find that General Boucké had no knowledge of the Conings case. I'll come back. In this context and when Conings' disappearance was confirmed, I immediately reacted. I put Defence at the service of the investigation: - sharing of information of the SGRS with other security services and judicial authorities; - taking preventive measures with regard to certain military personnel previously identified by the services; - objectivation of breaches through the investigations of the Inspector General and the R Committee; - initiation of a review of the disciplinary action to be taken in relation to the behaviours identified in the reports; - setting up, in consultation with trade unions, a working group on human resources components; - establishment of an action plan for the SGRS. It was in the context of the implementation of this action plan that the decision to replace the head of the SGRS arose. First of all, I would like to say that someone's departure, especially in such circumstances, is always a pity. I understand that this is painful in human terms for General Philippe Boucké. I also understand that this raises questions within ADIV and Defense. For the sake of clarity, I am not pleased that this has happened. Philippe Boucké's task from the beginning was complex, with the necessary pressure to make adjustments to make ADIV a performance intelligence service and to complete the reform, which began in January 2020. So there was a certain amount of stress from the beginning of his assignment. The underinvestment of recent years in Defence in general, and ADIV in particular, is an important reason for this. However, it must not blind me to other reasons that explain why things are going badly, such as the constant rotation of soldiers within ADIV, an overly complex organizational chart or a lack of internal information flow, things that also needed to be dealt with without additional people and resources to improve the functioning of the service. In addition to this already difficult situation, Jürgen Conings disappeared in mid-May 2021. This caused an unprecedented security crisis with continuous press coverage and the deployment of hundreds of police officers and military for several weeks. Given the role played by the service in this file, think of the many dysfunctions identified in the reports of the Secretary-General of Defence and in the report of the Standing Committee, everyone will understand that it was not obvious to operate in such circumstances and in a serene atmosphere. I would like to stress, however, that both myself and my cabinet have always done their utmost to ensure maximum availability for the management of ADIV. Here I would like to make some important clarifications on how things have happened. In the many exchanges I have had with General Boucké since 17 May, I have seen on several occasions shortcomings in terms of communication concerning the management of the Conings case by the SGRS. In such circumstances, however, this fluidity was essential given the ongoing investigation as well as the many questions related to the follow-up carried out by the SGRS. Thus, the information that General Boucké was not aware of the follow-up of Jürgen Conings by his services was communicated to my office only on Friday, 21 May, four days after the disappearance of Conings, while in the meantime meetings had been held at my office in his presence. Throughout the crisis, I personally met with General Boucké to encourage him in the face of the many criticisms faced by the service, but also to take an attitude to prevent this kind of situation from happening again. My exchanges have always been cordial and were meant to be constructive. Even before the Conings case broke out, we encouraged General Boucké to strengthen his entourage to help him in his mission because I realized the pressure on the Chief of the SGRS. In practice, this has never been done despite various reminders. Over the weeks and following the conclusions of the reports, it became clear that the scope of the work to be carried out was significant. During this period, I met with the Chief of Defence (CHOD) on a number of occasions on the future of the SGRS and more specifically on the reform to be carried out. It was clear that in order to carry out this reform and meet this challenge, it was necessary to have a determined and capable person to cope with the pressure. I did not, at that time, have my appeasements on the resumption of the situation. In the course of these exchanges, I also discussed with the Chief of Defence the procedures to be initiated as a result of the shortcomings identified by the various reports. It was clear that the actions to be taken should be directed to those who could be held accountable on the basis of the reports of the General Inspectorate of Defence and Committee R. These discussions with the Chief of Defence were intended to provide a basis for reflection on the future of the service. In no way has a decision been made. It has always been agreed between us to let the hearings take place and then to take an attitude. From my office, I followed with great attention the subsequent hearings and exchanges of views. General Boucké has explained to you how he has managed the SGRS since taking up his duties, and the follow-up of the Jürgen Conings case. He confirmed to you that he was not aware of Mr.Conings' follow-up or of the various deficiencies of the SGRS in an extremely tense context. I heard General Boucké speak about the facts and the future, with a determination that I had not felt since the beginning of the case. I was positively surprised. There was therefore a marked difference between the attitude shown by General Boucké in Parliament and that given to me in our discussions. Messages about the willingness and ability to continue the transformation of the SRMS were also very different, even though the Chief of Defence had decided to strengthen the SRMS into human resources as early as June. I had also supported this reinforcement myself, while providing for an ambitious action plan with an important human resources component, including a reduction in rotation cycles. So what was not my surprise when, that very evening, the CHOD contacted me to inform me of his exchange with General Boucké at the end of the commission. He informed me that Philippe Boucké did not wish to continue his collaboration at the head of this service, and suggested that I discuss it with him. The next morning, I received General Boucké for a long discussion, and told him of my astonishment. I also informed him that no decision had been taken before, but that I had legitimately asked myself questions to prepare for the future. The issues of the pressure on this case, the pressure on the future in the active implementation of the reform, the need to work in confidence on a sound and serene basis, and the need to strengthen staff were discussed at length. The continued pressure and the need to improve the operation of the ADIV in the short term proved to be heavy and made it difficult for the general to make the necessary changes to the operation of the ADIV in serene circumstances. Once this exchange was over, I spoke to the CHOD in the same way. Thus, in common agreement, with respect for everyone and for the good of the service and its future, we have decided to replace General Boucké at the head of this service. The Chief of Defence sent a message of clarification to all Defence personnel on 19 July. This is not a dismissal, as some have said. General Boucké has not been dismissed and will continue to work on other Defence projects. General Boucké and I left that evening on good terms, with a legitimate feeling in his head – and of which he told me – of a taste of too little and of not having been able to meet this challenge to the end, but also a kind of relief for his family and himself. We agreed together on a communiqué to which General Boucké was able to make the amendments he wanted. The way in which General Boucké was finally replaced is therefore more nuanced than some suggested. It wasn't a question of using the blunt axe to roll a head. Nor was it intended to pass on the responsibility of what has happened to someone else, nor to accuse anyone of a mistake made. However, it was a question of three parties who, by mutual agreement, understand at a certain point and conclude that there is no basis for further cooperation and that change is necessary in order to make the immense adjustments to the service, while it must also remain operational. The decision was agreed on by three parties. The communication of this decision was also coordinated by three parties. In recent days, I have been able to read various reactions to this decision. I regret that the perceptions of this decision are so far removed from reality. This decision was made in the interests of the proper functioning of Defence and the SMS and to avoid such errors in the future as far as possible. It was necessary because the SGRS must be able to fulfil its role in mutual trust with other Belgian and foreign services, but also for the safety of our citizens. This service fulfils essential security tasks and new mistakes should be avoided as far as possible. Above all, this service needs to continue its transformation started in 2020 and implement the action plan developed in recent weeks. This is the priority. In order to replace General Boucké, I, together with Admiral Hofman, have chosen Vice Admiral, Mr Robberecht. He has a rich operational experience and was commander of the Navy component. Currently he is working as assistant chief of staff operations and training. In addition, Vice Admiral Robberecht has held several positions within DG HR, giving him a great deal of experience in human resources management and human resources management. This is an experience that will be important in the roll-out of the action plan, which was drawn up for ADIV, including in the context of the problem of the too frequent rotation of military personnel within ADIV mentioned above. Vice-Admiral Wim Robberecht has my confidence in starting the implementation of the action plan. I hope that he will be supported in this task by a group of people who will be responsible for making a concrete contribution to the transition of the service. It is still premature to talk about the composition of such a team. It will be composed with him and will have the mission of ensuring the transformation so much necessary for this service. The appointment of deputy chiefs of staff, as well as the appointment of any general officer, is a decision that must take the form of a royal order. It is therefore the Minister of Defence who proposes the signature of this order to the Head of State. This is not the case when the law requires the Council of Ministers to deliberate, as is the case with the appointment of the Head of Defence. Before concluding, I would like to end with a word to the attention of the Defence staff, those 25,000 women and men who work daily for the security of our country, abroad but also in Belgium, or who are now helping those affected by the recent floods. Before that, they had an exceptional commitment to support hospitals, nursing homes and rest homes as part of the coronavirus. For their commitment, I would like to reiterate my support and they need to know that I am here to accompany Defence in this transition phase. They and they can count on my determination. Since taking office, I have been aware of the challenges ahead. Over the past few months, the department has been under constant pressure. This pressure is heavy for our staff, who are confronted every day with the challenges of an organization that has not been able to anticipate and replace the many retirements and thus ensure the transmission of expertise and experience. In view of this situation, as soon as I took office, I identified the staff as my priority. Recent events have shown that this is a major challenge for our army. I remain determined to complete the projects that I initiated, and I know that Defence personnel are just as much as I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation and availability to the Chamber. We certainly appreciate your presence, as it allows us to carry out our parliamentary audit function properly. I'm a little shocked by your explanation. As I understand it, it was actually the CHOD who informed you that Mr. Boucké could no longer be head of the ADIV because of too much stress. It wasn't supposed to be a discharge. However, that completely contradicts what Mr Boucké himself communicated a few days ago. I would like to quote this: "On 8 July I received the only message that they wanted to replace me and even launch a disciplinary sanction against me. On 14 July I was questioned for four hours at the Parliamentary Committee on Defence, the result was known the day itself, most of them supported me. On July 15th, the day it was decided to replace me, there were two options on the table. I myself indicated that I would like to continue on the condition that ADIV was reinforced with staff. The second option was to replace me. The choice is known." The communication of the CHOD itself in the internal letter to the staff is also contrary to what you say. That is where he says very clearly: 'The Minister himself has informed General Boucké of his decision'. So both the words of the general concerned and the claims of the CHOD contradict what you came here to say. Of course, I wasn't there, but I've never seen anything like it. The two top generals of the Belgian army say quite the opposite of what the minister says. That's unseen. I don't know who to believe here. I know, however, that there has been a hearing with Mr Boucké at our question. I asked the President more than a month ago and the agreement was that we would organise the hearing after the two reports. I agreed to wait for that. We've been able to look through everything and discuss it thoroughly. Mr Boucké was very wary of this at the time, and you were shocked because you did not know him that way. I don't know him personally, but I thought he gave a very good explanation here. He has partly taken on the mistakes that have been made within the Defense Department, something that is always adorned by ministers as well as politicians and military. I didn't know how to put General Boucké's resignation on the table. In that sense, it was a big surprise when it was suddenly announced. What happened after that was hallucinating. The army leadership turned against you. People of the Strategic Committee openly turned against you. I've never seen that before. I've heard the word cowardice, a very heavy term. This is a very special situation in which you have absolutely no control over the problems. After it was announced that Mr. Boucké was dismissed, the title was in Het Nieuwsblad: "The dismissal that was not there." So he chose it himself. You confirm that it was his choice. I read that this would be because he would be on the brink of a burn-out and have psychological problems. I was completely shocked, which is not only a discharge, but also a character murder on a general who has been widely respected for many years. That's way out of line for me. I do not know where that information came from, allegedly from within the minister's circle, but when such matters are spread over a general, I think that is crapulous. I don't have another word for that. Madam Secretary, is that correct? Do you have any proof of that? You claim that, but can you make that hard? We do know that the general was taken away after a long meeting in the heat of the battle in the Jürgen Conings case. Maybe what that is due to the fact that he hadn't slept days and nights, I don't know, but to conclude that he would have psychological problems and would be on the verge of breakdown, goes far too far. That's a whole different order of things. Madam Secretary, have there been any conflicts with Mr Boucké in the Jürgen Conings case? Yes or no? Have there been any incidents, conflicts or serious discussions with the general? If so, when and about what? What was that like in the fall of last year? Can you give us a timeline of these serious points of discussion and clarify exactly what it was about? In connection with the decision, you have also said that you will come up with a KB. We have all read the interpretation of Professor Mattelaer of the Royal Decree of 2 December 2018. That can't just happen, the person concerned is the deputy chief of staff of the Belgian army. You can't force someone to resign and only then tell them you're going to consult with the government. So my question is what the members of the government knew about it? Who knew about that and who didn't? We read on the one hand that Mr De Croo knew, but on the other hand that is denied again. How's the fork on the handle? Who knew about this? Was the nuclear cabinet aware of the dismissal? I think what you're doing here is legally, at least, highly dubious. The appointment of General Boucké's successor must also be discussed. Moreover, the replacement by Mr Robberecht must be discussed within the government or the nuclear cabinet. I don't think any of that happened. You are now saying that you are going to come up with something on this subject, but I believe that you are already legally on very slippery ground at the moment. So I would like to have some explanation on this too. I had a lot to say, but we only have five minutes, so I shall confine myself to two comments. First of all, we've been on this committee with the government for nine months to make it stronger and better. We try to achieve many things in broad consensus and fight for a better Defence, a stronger Defence that can carry out its tasks better. However, all this also stands or falls with more resources for Defence. In the meantime, we have already gone a long way, which means that both the left and the right now say that these resources must also be put in place effectively. I think this is already positive in itself. In that sense, I do not understand why you kept saying j'y suis, j'y rest throughout the Jürgen Conings crisis. You said you weren't responsible and you couldn't do anything about it. You inherited that mess and tried to make the best of it. I have every respect for that because making a mess of something beautiful is not obvious. However, if a general who has been appointed for you for a few days has to pay for that, then I have zero point zero understanding for that. I really blame you for that. After all, you cannot say that you did not know and that you do not resign because it is not your responsibility and you cannot do anything about it because you are only sitting there, so that at the same time the general who just happened to be brought in because his predecessor went to NATO is responsible. If you say he did it, you just can't. That is why I ask you to mediate, if necessary through the Prime Minister, and to restore honour as soon as possible. This is unacceptable and it also puts a heavy strain on your own position. I think you have a lot of work to do there. I have one final comment to make. A number of things have disturbed me enormously, but the next thing is most of all. It is about saying that you are upset because you are French speaking, you belong to the PS and you are a woman. That is the pose of the great evil wolf, the military world, against the victim, the minister and her entourage. That doesn't seem right. I know that a victim role is always very successful, because one can easily exploit it and play Calimero. However, it is extremely insulting to the top of the army and to all the military that you are insinuated that you have something against being a woman, of the PS and French speaking, because that is not how I know Defence. On the contrary, when I make a Community-style remark, I often get the whole defence community over me. So it's often the other way around. I think it is inappropriate to always try to be a victim, which may be interesting electoral, but I do not know whether it will be sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u4	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her introductory statement. Last week, I wished him a good holiday by saying that the end of the year had been a little agitated and hoping that everything would be better. And now we find ourselves a little faster than I thought as a result of General Boucké's eviction! On the other hand, Minister, you had to deal with the floods. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the Defence personnel who worked hard for the rescue and clean-up operations. I know you'll do everything you can to help the victims. To go back to the agitation that is taking place this morning, I must say that I was very surprised, of course, when I learned this information, and I am very pleased that we can clarify in committee the circumstances and the causes of this decision. It is a question of transparency and it is important that we are all present. I would like to thank the Commissioners present today and the Minister for her availability. After hearing your explanations about your decision, I understand that the general was neither able nor able to continue his mission. We take note of that. Last week, several of us stressed the need for stability in the SMS to carry out the reform. And as you said yourself, the hearing of General Bouké was quite convincing as to his motivation to reform the service but also as to his willingness to be kept in his post, even if - it must be admitted, it grinned teeth rightly - he had nevertheless tried to relativize certain findings and reports. The situation was somewhat special. Clearly, it was not possible to retain him to his position. There was, however, considerable internal support, including within his department. The problem is that today the versions diverge, generating blur and confusion, which only adds to anger and frustration. But you explained your reasons. We hear them. As I understand it, contrary to what Mr Franken has said, there is no question here of designating a culprit. The idea is not to dismiss General Boucké because he is guilty, because he has committed a fault. He himself was not aware that he was at the level of the threat. The idea was not to roll heads here, but to evoke his attitude during and after the outbreak of the crisis. It is not a question of having a responsibility that the policy does not want to assume, but rather of managing the next. Is he capable of managing it or not? You seem to think that's not the case. I regret that this did not happen before the hearing. Things would have been clearer if we had known, during the hearing, that the general was on the way out. You are now faced not with one, but with two priorities. The first is still to continue the reform of 2020 and to take adaptive measures as recommended in the reports of the General Inspectorate of Defence and the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence Services (Committee R). There is then the launch of the action plan. What is the status of this plan today? What immediate steps will be taken? Can we guarantee that it is not a question of turning around the 2020 reform, but rather of continuing it and maintaining it by explaining it better and adapting it? Otherwise, we would have an additional stability problem. The first emergency is therefore to have an effective and soothing service. Some members of the service would fear sanctions today and the atmosphere there would be strange since the departure of the boss. Is Vice-Admiral Wim Robberecht on the same wavelength? In what state of mind is it given the particular circumstances of this somewhat chaotic resignation? The second priority is to restore confidence. It is quite unusual for generals to speak publicly, in this case on Twitter, against a decision of the Minister, the Head of Defence (CHOD) and, apparently, also of General Boucké. But the exits were pretty violent! Philippe Boucké's own statements have added to the confusion, making the situation quite incomprehensible. This case will leave traces. We therefore expect you to remain confident, because the challenges facing Defence are immense. You won't be able to face them alone. So both the rows and the elbows must remain tight. You have spoken to the 25,000 soldiers, who are now at work for some, and that is important. In order to avoid situations of floating or doubt, the entire staff must be involved with you. What have you put in place to restore confidence? I am curious to hear your answers to these questions and those of the other Commissioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u5	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. Since you took the lead in this difficult department, which has been mistreated for many years – the responsibilities are collective and I do not blame one party or the other, even if some have more – you have taken seriously the reins. You decided that the priority was staff because it was urgent to recruit. You have announced a plan of 10,000 civilian and military people to combat the phenomenon of attrition and the phenomenon of non-recruitment. You have also decided to upgrade careers and align salaries with those of the police, because it is true that our military and civilian personnel did not enjoy sufficiently attractive conditions. This explains the numerous malfunctions – apart from communication malfunctions – found within the SSRS, which is certainly one of the cornerstones of Defence since it is used for intelligence purposes and is used in military operations. The malfunctions are not new and have been denounced on several occasions and examined by the Committee R. Those who, in their lyricism or indignation – feigned or sincere – tell you that you should have done this or that, should have shown some humility and thought that they too should have spent the necessary time and budgets on this staff before you and to ensure that the malfunctions we are seeing today are not behind us but partly on the way to the resolution. This has not been the case so far. For me, you're the only one who has resolutely taken this direction. A change of structure in a ministry like Defence, with services as capital as those in question, is not without harm, takes time and generates resistance. But political responsibility and political pride must be to resist the winds and tides of those who could put sticks in your wheels. That being said, I have heard the colleague from the N-VA say that we can have a consensus in this committee to help you in this task, to help you go further and thus to translate the announcements that are more than announcements, since decisions have already been made, both for Defence and the SGRS. I extend a pole to all those who have a spirit of construction rather than destruction, because this is a department that is most essential for our nation and our people. As the mayor of a municipality affected by the floods, I was able to see how many of those who made up the army came with empathy, benevolence, seriousness and competence to help the affected residents, despite the fact that they were fewer than before. Aid to the nation has been set aside for some time or for some time – since my colleague André Flahaut, who had made it a priority, is no longer present in this department – and it has perhaps been considered a cost-saving measure to do. On the other hand, I would like to go back to the hearing of General Boucké, who surprised me. Of course, it was one of the first times I met him, but he seemed to be able to live up to the situation. No doubt it must be in an abstract way. However, when he presented the measures that he was going to take, he had taken up a whole series of measures that you yourself had announced. I was surprised that some questions were not answered. I said it. I said that I was not asking for a head but that I would go back to some of the elements of my questioning, to the shortcomings in the control of arms and ammunition, to the rocket launchers made available to military personnel when the training programme for the people they are supposed to train did not provide for this, to the absence of the people present at the meeting of the task force that were fundamental, on the withdrawal of authorization. In this regard, when he stated that he was not aware of the withdrawal of authorization, a member of the Commission replied that he should be aware of all clearance withdrawals. He then replied that he could not be aware of all the empowerments – which I understand – and that it was from a certain rank, but that he no longer remembered which one. These elements hit me. Irrespective of the case of Major General Boucké, for my group and for me, what matters is that we can definitely turn the page of this unfortunate story of Conings which has radicalised to the far right and which has become an extreme right-wing terrorist, and that we agree to be next to you, next to the generals, next to the CHOD, next to all those who want to ensure that the army is respected and considered and that the men and women who make it are revalued in the spectrum that you have defined and recalled on several occasions. I have a more specific question about the replacement of Major General Boucké. Minister, what are the consequences for the current and/or urgent activities of the SMS? You have explained how well the person who replaces him is a competent person. Despite this expertise, regarding urgent and routine activities, what steps have you taken to enable this service to function? Mr President, I should like to close my speech here. I have exhausted my group's speaking time. If there is a second round, my colleague André Flahaut will speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately not on the banks here or online, such as last week, who will say whether this is a statement, first of all about the timing of the communication. This far-reaching decision was taken and communicated in the midst of the chaos of the national disaster that struck many municipalities and citizens in this country and to which, once again, Defence made a very valuable contribution. You also informed them just before the parliamentary recess, day after the last Defence Commission, just before the summer. At that time, it was very likely that the parliamentary debate would be smothered by your will. Would you really have thought that we, as representatives of the people, would not do so? Of course not. That is why it is a good thing that we are here today to interview you as a minister. Secondly, a number of serious questions arise as to whether this decision is sensible and timely at the moment and is good for ADIV, for Defence and for security. My group, the Flemish Interest, has great doubts about this. After all, Major General Boucké had worked in the ADIV, a difficult department, had just rolled out a transition plan as well, to reform that completely hollowed-out, flawed intelligence service. In the middle of that exercise, it's decided that Barbertje should hang, he'll be fired and replaced. This move will undoubtedly hamper the efficiency of the much-needed reforms. By decapitating the ADIV, you have ensured that the security of our intelligence service and of our country is at stake, because there was a need for a head in the Conings case. Of course that should not be yours, that is clear at the moment. The way in which Major General Boucké was dismissed and the injustice of this decision stirred up a lot of dust. The general inherited a broken-up and undermanned organ, which already had three ADIV chiefs bit their teeth on. He was employed for nine months, almost as long as you, Madam Secretary. He was appointed on December 18th and you on October 1st. When you were talked about the chronology of the defense and the security services that led to the Conings case, you thought you were very well placed: I am fine here, j'y suis et j'y reste. You were needed to correct that inherited chaos in the department, which was distorted by, among other things, your party. You didn't take your final political responsibility as Minister. We believe that this is a scandal. It turns out that you are also inconsistent and hypocritical about the concept of responsibility, because General Boucké is, if possible, even less responsible for everything that has gone wrong with ADIV, among others. Turns out you're dealing with two sizes and two weights with your top military. Major General Boucké has been widely respected by his current and also by his former colleagues in the Defense Department. That's obvious. One responsibility, that of politics, is apparently not the other, that of the military. However, it is just that PS policy, which Defence once saw as a gray department to take money away from financing other departments, which has led to the current situation. This has led to an unprecedented protest, it has already been said here, not only in the Flemish interest, which is particularly acute for what is happening in your department and by your cabinet, Mrs Dedonder. A very large part of the defence staff has also turned against you. That's one of the most important items here today. By the way, the body language of you and the CHOD yesterday at the defile really spoke volumes. The storm of criticism of social media by both the military top and defence specialists, such as Mr Holslag and Mr Mattelaer, members of your strategic committee on Defence, to name but a few, did so. They all denounce that double morale, which your cabinet uses in terms of the concept of responsibility in the Conings case, which, as we know now, was only a symptom of that saving sickness of your party, among other things. You reiterated once again that this was a decision taken by three people. The CHOD and Maj. Gen. Boucké both say that this is not the case. So someone's lying, and I suspect they're not the two soldiers mentioned before. You don't have your reputation in that regard, Madam Secretary. Remember the C-130 file, which you've thoroughly misbehaved. You keep going on and on. General Boucké wanted to get back to work. That's what he said during and after the hearing. He asked for more staff and resources, which makes sense. The CHOD also apparently did not support the decision to resign, no matter how many times you may repeat it here. He puts the ball completely in your camp. There is therefore no consultation and consensus. Some say that this consultation never even took place. As if all this were not enough, it is not enough to give the impression that General Boucké was no longer able to do the job or dared to do it. In one breath they say that he would suffer from psychological problems. A Kaltstellung, also human, to say "you." This is particularly painful, not only for the person in question but also for all the military in your department. So he's been pushed aside by some brutal PS-power politics. So bold that your head of your cabinet would have personally made sure that the general was unwell during a high-level discussion and had to be taken to the hospital. There are quatons that claim that this would have to do with a reckoning or a revenge exercise by your head of your cabinet, who was once active within ADIV. What unfresh practices are happening under your authority? It is also necessary to clarify the legal issue that has already been raised. You have explained that you disagree with Professor Mattelaer's view, among others. Can you clarify that? Have you had any backup from this government to carry out your decision? If that is the case, the crocodile tears of parties such as Open Vld, Green and CD&V are hypocritical. Either they were not aware of what is being said in the media today, and so you played soloslim. That's illegal. Either way, it's problematic. What is more important in this discussion: what does all this bring for the defence and security of our citizens? Nothing. How should we proceed within ADIV? What about continuity? What's going to happen in the next few months, in the interbellum? Are we gonna start with a white leaf again? The successor, Admiral Robberecht, will face the same problems. He too will ask for additional resources and staff. How can you still ensure that you have the people on the ground, when you have demonstrated with this whole story that you no longer have any authority worthy of that name? Not to mention the breach of trust between you and the staff, which has now been aggravated if possible. And to blame you for being a woman, a socialist and a French speaker:il faut le faire, how dare your party claim such a thing. What bias and arrogance from you. None of the military are aware of that. What defence personnel do, and rightly so, are often literally awakened to is the policy being pursued and the structural underinvestment within Defence that ensures that the military have to perform their jobs in particularly difficult circumstances. The POP plan, which, in practice, is in danger of becoming a failure, I hope I am wrong: that wakes them up, Madam Secretary. You have tried to force Defense into a PS-choice body throughout this entire file, and that creates enormous friction between your cabinet and the military leadership. Not for the first time, you're going directly against the advice of the military summit. In true Soviet style, press your ukazes. But your position, Madam Secretary, has become really untenable at the moment. You're putting your own people in the D.O.D.'s armor against you. You create rebellion within your policy domain, highly counterproductive for a security device like Defense. We, as Flemish Interest, were the only ones and the first in the aftermath of this whole affair, already at the end of May your resignation as a political finalist. 'Cause if someone has to leave today, that's you. I therefore call on you once again today not to completely undermine your own credibility and to resign today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u7	Madam Secretary, if you had to resign in the Conings case, your party and certain journalists would undoubtedly have defended you. There are three arguments for this: firstly, that you have just taken office and, secondly, that you are diligently cleaning up debris, which requires a great deal of work. Thirdly, you could say that you need additional resources. I do not need to point out that it is obvious that General Boucké too can put forward all these arguments. After all, he was only in office and he was also hard at work, with a clear plan. He also needed resources, because otherwise he could not do his job. Everyone here, both from the majority and from the opposition, will undoubtedly feel that a particularly narrow decision has been taken. You also point out that the previous government was that of the means, then they bought equipment. In this legislature, you want to be the Minister of Human Resources or Human Resources. You rightly want to ensure that these people earn a little more money and you want to ensure good policies in this area. This decision is also close because it clashes with the values that many soldiers have built up over the years. Why is there such a violent reaction from certain top generals that you've never seen before? These people, of course, feel compromised in their value. I think this is about the meritocracy, which says that someone who does well will be rewarded while someone who does less well will not be rewarded. We must take account of this rightful reaction. Furthermore, I think this is a very narrow decision because it will have to be regularised. You may or may not have taken them in consultation with the Prime Minister, but she was not widely discussed, to put it that way. You can regularize that afterwards, but from the point of view of human resources that is obviously problematic. If someone is fired in front of the whole country, then the coalition partners are, of course, in a difficult situation afterwards. It is difficult for them to say that they are going to reverse the resignation, to turn the whole government upside down. I apologise for expressing myself quite freely, but there was majority consultation on Tuesday and none of our party was present because there was no government at the time. As your party had at that time put aside the coalition agreement, it was difficult to hold majority consultations. The last argument I would like to make about the narrowness of this decision is that as a monolingual person - and that is not a reproach - you fired a Fleming. I'm gonna transfer it to the private sector. You are a monolingual and you fire a Fleming there. So you force that person to speak French at that moment, in that power ratio, in the event of a dismissal. This is very problematic in terms of human resources policy everywhere. But that happens here, he is perfectly bilingual and he adapts, so there is no problem. I believe that this is a problem. As an attorney to a person who gets fired like that, it could be said that this isn't okay. I have put forward four arguments which show why people feel uncomfortable, both top generals and opposition people, and also those from the majority, although they will not all express that. This is about the authenticity of personnel policy. Which values do you want to put forward exactly? What's important there? Is it a meritocracy or does the Department of Defense work in a different way? I have argued several times here for much more resources for the defense. In addition to what you rightly say in terms of a good staff policy and more money for the people, the important question is what values Defence will drive in the future. In that respect, I believe that we are having a difficult day here. Whether one belongs to the majority or not, this is a very difficult decision. Kattrin Jadin(MR): Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. My colleagues will, I think, have enough understanding of the situation we are living in Eupen because of the weather. Last week, Madam Minister, we conducted hearings on those responsible for the SGRS following the report made available by the R Committee.My colleague Denis Ducrame and I had already reported on the many deficiencies within the SGRS. We also pointed out that some reforms were struggling to take place, although they should have been effective at the end of the previous legislature. Of course, there was the health crisis, etc. However, there is a lack of a road map that would allow us to see where we are going with this reform that comes from the imperatives called for by the Attentats Committee. It's still a little bit across our throat. The answers given at the hearing were evasive at times. I understand this in the light of your remarks today: this is not an eviction but a discussion about the continuation of important reforms within the SGRS, and even more so following the Conings case. I conclude that this is a calm discussion, and that Major General Boucké has been displaced and not degraded, both in terms of his responsibilities and his rank. Neutrality is certainly a recurring subject of the MR group, but in the army, the duty of neutrality – and even more so when it comes to the decision of a tutelage minister – should not be allowed to speak on Twitter. In view of the position held by some in a regal power such as the Defence, some restraint and neutrality must be exercised. Mr President, thank you for your understanding. I'm kind of upset right now, but I hope you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u8	I think everyone can understand that, Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u9	Mr President, after Mrs Jadin's intermezzo, I will resume my speech. What has appeared in recent days and weeks in the newspapers, on social media and on TV news does not look nice. However, certainly in the context of the greatest flood disaster that has ever hit our country, it could become more prominent as an organisation that is more focused than ever on helping the nation. For the PVDA-PTB, less resources and operational priorities must be given to foreign operations in the NATO context and more military forces must be deployed on the ground to help people effectively in the affected areas of our country. As is the case in the Netherlands, operational preparedness must be pursued within two hours to provide assistance to the affected. However, that debate transcends the subject of this exchange of views. In my turn, I would like to thank the emergency services and the soldiers who have now been deployed on the ground for the help they are providing. This aid can be greater if we focus more on Defence in the real sense of the word and on helping the nation. DOD regularly gets into the news, often in a negative way. Now the Jürgen Conings case is about to get another tail, even within the Defense Department itself. Despite the Minister's explanation I have followed carefully, I cannot get the impression that a symbolic head had to roll, something that some part of the army leadership is not satisfied with at all. Madam Secretary, you started on 1 October 2020 12 days after Major General Boucké was appointed Head of ADIV on 18 September. You have always repeated that your resignation as a minister was not the result of the Conings case and that you wanted to continue the much work you have inherited. For the record, my group has never demanded your resignation. We are not talking about the person holding the post, but about the structural deficiencies, such as the lack of staff, the inadequate flow of information that has led to the debacle, as well as a minimalisation and underestimation of the extreme right-wing threat and infiltration in Defense. As far as we are concerned, you could stay on if the problems were to be dealt with. That was also a bit the impression and consensus that seemed to grow with General Boucké. Following the latest hearing, it appeared that General Boucké could continue to pursue the reforms, the transition within the ADIV, provided that the service would have more staff than before. We were all a little stunned when you announced that General Boucké's resignation as head of the ADIV last Friday. You have stated, and you have just confirmed, in your explanation, that the dismissal came after mutual agreement. Since that declaration, however, we have seen that many people within the military summit themselves question that, even deny it or dispute it. It is unseen, apparently, that this displeasure is also expressed publicly. There is, of course, something to be said about the substance of General Boucké's stay as head of the ADIV. It is, of course, very easy to find a scapegoat and put all responsibility in someone's shoes. In view of the explanation given by Mr Boucké at the latest hearing, I believe that this would be unjustified. But of course it is also too easy to judge that Mr Boucké would not bear any responsibility. He's admitted certain things, too, equestrian. He may not have been personally aware of this, which in itself is still striking and which I still cannot get explained to the population, especially since Jürgen Conings was labeled "Three Level 3." But in the end, he was responsible for his duties. He was ultimately responsible for the good and effective functioning within the ADIV. What is even more problematic, in our view, is that you at least gave the impression of acting on your own initiative and of having passed a personal decision, contrary to your statement afterwards and also contrary to the explanation you have just given again. You said, just now, that the dismissal was done by mutual agreement, but that is really disputed, and even refuted and contradicted, inter alia, by the statements made by the Chief of Staff, and also by Mr Boucké himself. I believe there are at least two options in this story. Or, as you say yourself, in consultation with the Chief of Staff and Mr Boucké, you have reached a consensus that Mr Boucké could no longer stay on, and perhaps Mr Boucké himself has taken a step aside, which can certainly be legitimate, given the circumstances. Either you took the decision yourself, and in fact, having regard to the explanations given by the specialists in this matter, you may have acted unlawfully, in violation of the royal decree according to which such dismissal must be carried out by the entire government, or at least by the Council of Ministers. So it could be said that you actually lied. Madam Minister, my questions are therefore very logical and very simple and clear. Why was that decision finally taken to remove Major General Boucké from his position at the ADIV? In the end, what are the real substantive arguments behind this and have actually made the difference? Who took the initiative to resign? Was that effective after mutual consultation or was that mainly at your direction? If it was a unilateral decision of yours, why didn't you inform the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u10	Mr President, Minister, yesterday, 21 July, there was a serene moment, because of the terrible floods and after another hellish covid year. These are two disasters where Defence has once again shown and given the best of itself, despite the very limited resources. We must be grateful to the military for that. Today, a day later, the contrast cannot be greater. We are back together in relation to the Conings case and that after the umpteenth episode in that story. The flight of Conings was clearly analysed, perhaps already overanalyzed. The reports by the Inspector-General and the Committee I were very good, we have discussed them several times, we have had hearings on them, we have seen a clear minister. I thought you were very good last time, and I told you so. You immediately came up with a firm action plan. There was another hearing last week. At that time, on my way to Brussels, I felt that this was going to be too much for the hearing. That hearing might not have been necessary anymore. The action plan was there and everyone was behind it. We have seen that too. Major General Boucké has clearly and strongly supported this. The CHOD sat next to him and said he had every confidence in the general. And then, boom kettle punch, Friday followed that discharge. I have an important question on that. So what actually happened between Wednesday afternoon, after which we all went home feeling satisfied, and Friday morning, with the resignation from office? Madam Secretary, it is important to talk about dismissal from office. However, this still remains a painful story. What happened between Wednesday and Friday remains a painful story. I think that the understanding of a possible dismissal would have been greater after the publication of the inspector-general's report or immediately after Mr Conings' flight. We'd be in a different situation. It happens that there is a request for political or administrative dismissal, in connection with a certain responsibility. That didn't happen here. We left the person concerned to the floor on 14 July and gave him confidence in his plan. Still, he got fired afterwards. You have given your opinion on this matter. I myself was asking for this committee to meet earlier, before 21 July. I thought it was very important to hear your views on the facts. We have taken note of your vision, but still believe that it contradicts those who announced General Boucké on Twitter and to the Belga press agency. This is very unfortunate both for the image of General Boucké and for yourself. A number of colleagues have already indicated that making the decision also caused them to frown the eyebrows. Some question the legality of the decision. I myself am a lawyer and know that the opinions between lawyers sometimes differ, but this lingering lack of clarity is detrimental. I think that the General's tweets should also be read in this context, as a violation of the normal procedures to be followed. That is why the generals have expressed their opinion so loudly and clearly. One can continue to analyse and interpret the situation, but it remains problematic that a Secretary of Defense and her staff stand in direct opposition to each other. This needs to be cleared up and resolved as soon as possible. We must also remember that the ADIV action plan, announced by the Minister and confirmed by General Boucké, must be on the right track as soon as possible. The Minister said that there should be an end to staff turnover, ICT shortages and financial and regulatory problems. The recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into terrorist attacks, which has written a great deal about the ADIV, must finally be implemented. The chairman of that committee of inquiry, Patrick Dewael, I believe is also present at this sitting, will be able to confirm that. That implementation is really essential. Of course, the hatch information is essential. Madam Secretary, I think you have a very busy summer ahead of you. After the summer recess, you promised us that you would present the update of the strategic plan. I also look forward to the implementation and results of the POP plan. I am also looking forward to the plans for the integration of the new material. I look forward to the update of the strategic plan and the new programme law that you will submit. So you've got a lot of work ahead of you. That is why I think it is essential that you sit down with the staff at the table after today to sort this out. The trust between the MOD and the staff must return. These discussions need to be brought to an end, and there must be clarity. There is a great deal of work to be done for you in the coming weeks and months, so that Parliament can work with you in September in a restored climate of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u11	Mr Pillen, I can confirm that Mr Dewael is indeed present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u12	Mr President, I think it was a good initiative to bring this committee together, because the negative noises surrounding this dossier deserved a little more explanation. I must say, however, that I have been disturbed by the criticism of our boys about their commitment to the climate disaster while they were at work in that area at the time. That criticism touched me more than the discussion we are having right now. A week ago, we held a hearing in this committee on the ADIV, in particular on the operation of ADIV and not on the functioning of General Boucké. The question was what went wrong in that service and what could be improved. Many bad things have already been said today about the ADIV and it is true that things have gone wrong in the Conings case. However, when it comes to our missions in Iraq and Syria, I regularly hear behind the scenes that the ADIV is doing a good job. In the hearing, I heard some conclusions on what needs to be done. There is no policy plan to set priorities within the ADIV today. This is important, however, if it is to be combined with commitment and resources. So that's a problem. Secondly, I have also heard that there is a very high turnover within the ADIV, which means that a lot of expertise is lost. The Minister also mentioned this problem. A third point is that the flow of information is not going well, which became very clear in the case. Those three elements are the priorities for me, which are the most important ones. It will then be possible to examine with whom all this needs to be addressed. General Boucké runs that service. Is he the right man to continue that work? That question can be compelling, and I don't think there's anything wrong with asking them. However, I cannot answer them. In the hearing I heard General Boucké's statement and he sounded very combative. Based on that explanation alone, I cannot estimate whether he had the impact and has to do so. I can't answer that, and maybe that's not my role either. I certainly determined that at the time. At that time, I intended that I would not participate in a sainthood. Mr Francken says today that he does not know the man, but on the radio I heard him say that he is an excellent general. Last week, however, he told the general on the same committee that it was painful that he had given an interview to Le Soir about those thirty extreme right-wing soldiers, after which two weeks later the Conings case appeared. He also said that he found it incomprehensible that the general, as head of ADIV, was not aware of who those soldiers were. That was his criticism last week, and today it is an excellent general. I do not participate in this sanctification, but I do not think that there would be only one person responsible for this crisis. That can't be the intention. General Boucké has, of course, his responsibility and of course has made an effort to improve ADIV. I'm sure of it. He certainly doesn't have any responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u13	I don't do holiness myself. I'm not very good at that myself. People who have a record year and day in a top position will always do so with the broke and the bump. Sanctuary statements are not dealt with in the Belgian Defence Department. However, it is undeniable that everyone will say that Mr Boucké has a very good reputation. I'm sure you've heard that yourself. He's a very honest man who's used to always performing at a very high level. He's done that for years. That's what I hear from friends and enemies, and I'm sure you've heard the same thing. That doesn't mean that General Boucké has never made a mistake in his entire life. There's no such thing. That doesn't exist in politics. There is no such thing in business. There is no such thing in the defence world. Last week I asked myself why he had never heard of that name. That question is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u14	I have also heard the reactions, and that is indeed true. Above all, I would like to say that giving one man responsibility would not be justified either. I heard the Minister say that clearly today. The General is not considered responsible for this crisis. I even understood that there was no intention of replacing him until he himself expressed his doubts. I have heard today a minister who, in consultation with the General and the CHOD, has heard about his doubts and vulnerability. That was put on the table, and who is she, then, to doubt it? The perception afterwards was very different, as we have all been able to read. The statements of support to the general, who undoubtedly enjoys a very good reputation, were extended, as I have seen. The explanation today has made clear what the time span has been. Otherwise, after the hearing, I'd find that kind of bizarre. For me, that has made some things clear. It is possible that the perception was different and difficult for all concerned. A general may be vulnerable, I can see that. However, I do not want to have a discussion here on the basis of newspaper articles, newspaper titles or the sprinkling of a journalist who does not mention a source and talks about the minister as a socialist and a woman. I've never heard the Minister say that, but we're already discussing that. That has nothing to do with the debate. That is no good to the defence industry, it is no good to Mr Boucké, it is no good to anyone. I do not think it is right to debate this issue. The most important thing I remember from this is this. We have read and seen the recommendations, we have heard at the hearings what goes wrong with ADIV and what needs to be improved. They need to ensure security within the Defense Department and our society. First of all, that's important to me. Secondly, there must be no hint of one man. From all the statements of support I have understood that the man has his qualities and I hope that his services will continue to be used within the Defense Department. It is clear that, in the meantime, there is a need to build confidence within the Defence Summit and the military in general. The Minister can do this only by further work on her plans for, among other things, staff revaluation and the strengthening of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your presence because I know that you are very busy today on the flood front. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Defence's work in this context. But we are here because we have the feeling, in any case for me, that you have added to the crisis facing Defence and the SGRS of the additional instability and a little more fragility. You just told us a "joli fairy tale." This is not the first time that we have a fairy tale about the crisis at the SGRS and especially in the context of the fight against extremism - the extreme right in this case. As we have seen, different versions have circulated over a series of stages of this crisis. But today, in this case, you are telling us that, by common accord, General Boucké and you have decided to leave his post. As we know, trust has been broken with you for a long time and he knew that the guillotine was being mounted, that the scaffold was under construction. He therefore preferred to find a way out in accordance with his dignity, his honour, which had been brutally challenged by you and your firm. And this morning, in fact, you fired him a second time. If you are heard correctly, we understand that he was not up to the task and that the complexity of the problems prevented him from succeeding in his mission. He was therefore not up to the task, did not communicate enough and did not anticipate enough. I repeat, you fired him a second time today. I find this very serious, very disturbing because it is not at all the feeling he had given in committee but above all - we did not know him and we still do not know him very much - it is not at all the feeling he gave in the staff. In fact, within the staff, we are talking about an exemplary officer. The words are very hard, whether on the part of Lieutenant General Marc Thys, on the part of Major General Pierre Gérard or the boss of the Medical Component, very hard on the way you have proceeded, this extremely brutal way, this brutal management that does not at all correspond to this philosophy that you seem to want to promote:People, our priority. In this case, this has not been the case. The manner in which this general has been dealt with is absolutely not consistent with what I think should be the way in which senior officers, moreover, are to be treated, the officer who has just arrived, who had little means and who has tried to assume responsibility for systemic and long-standing failure within the army and the SMS. I think we should stop giving us such contradictory versions that we can no longer know the truth. It must be the time that wants that. There is no more truth or reality, there are only stories, opinions, ways in which this truth is told. I find this very unpleasant because, in this case, there is also the impression that Parliament is not respected throughout this history. We've been working on this case for weeks. We're given the General Inspectorate's report. We are given the report of the R Committee and, in reality, it is a theatre of shadows because behind the scenes, things are going quite differently from what is happening in Parliament. Behind the scenes, we are preparing General Boucké's dismissal. This decision is brutal and comes at a very special time when the country is experiencing sufficiently large crises, whether they are political or linked to natural disasters. I think we could spare ourselves this crisis today. I don't understand the timing of this decision just before the holidays. It's like we wanted to get rid of parliamentary control! But we are here today despite the parliamentary holidays! You have to stop with this kind of management because you're going to face serious problems. If we start with this type of management, we will face problems that are likely to be more and more serious. Minister, who made this decision? In what way? What level of information has been provided to the various members of the government in relation to this decision? Did you make the decision alone? If you took it alone, it is a very special responsibility! This is one of the most serious political crises we have faced in recent weeks. I would not understand that you made such a decision without referring it to the other members of the government. I think it would be wise not to make this decision alone. Who made this decision? When? On the basis of what? What are the consequences of this decision for our security? We know we have a series of threats. We're talking today about the Pegasus case, but there are others. What are the consequences for our security? How was this decision received in the SMS? Much has been said about the staff, but trust is probably also shaken in the SMS. What is our ability to cope with the challenges we face?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for being available here; the seriousness of the situation justifies that. I have noticed that several colleagues have limited themselves to why in the questions they have put. I think that is understandable, because there are very few signs of dismissal and the surprise is very great for many Members of both the majority and the opposition. So Mr Boucké is no longer the ADIV boss. He was active for only 11 months and made a very motivated and motivated impression in the Chamber, as well as in the rare interviews he gave during the short term of his term of office. However, since the eruption of the Conings affair, one party has always asked for Boucké's resignation, quite remarkable, namely the MR, but it was never followed by other parties who were always a little surprised by it. In the meantime, the resignation of Boucké is of course a fact. You say that this change of function was done in consultation. This has been contradicted by numerous statements made by members of the general staff, Mr Boucké himself and the Chief of Defence, which only increased the confusion. I have been a member of the Defence Committee for 14 years, and I have never experienced that kind of internal unrest, that kind of public statements and discussions. I deeply regret that from the point of view of defence. No matter how one spins it or turns it, the damage is immense. To what extent can Mr Boucké be held responsible for the Conings case? That is a crucial question, and I would like to go on with you. Has Mr Boucké ever seen the name Jürgen Conings pass? We know the answer; that was not the case. So there is no personal responsibility. What about his responsibility as chief? In your introduction, you also referred today to a lack of information flow from Mr Boucké to the cabinet in the aftermath of the threat by Jürgen Conings. At the same time, we know that the first audit report on ADIV from 2011 dates back. Then, politically, nothing was done about it for years, not even by the opposition parties that are now blowing the hell out of it, but which have had policy responsibility over the department for a very long period of time. Then who is responsible if the ulcer erupts with the Jürgen Conings case, when the continuous malaise with the Conings case is exposed? Is that the random chief of ADIV of that moment, who then spends 11 months in that position? Are these individual employees who may have made very clear personal mistakes in a decision? Or is it politics? Or is it a mix of the three? In any case, it seems to me that it is difficult to speak of full responsibility of the ADIV boss, under whose authority a certain malaise at ADIV would have grown but not addressed. That is clearly not the case. Is Mr. Boucké a scapegoat? Or are there other elements that led to his dismissal as ADIV boss? You point out a lack of motivation and talk about some personal elements. We are actually discussing a personnel file from a member of the defence organisation in a public meeting. That's not obvious. As an employer, you have elements that the general public logically does not have. That is normal, but it is important that you respect the privacy of the data subject in your statement. I would like to stress that. Please don't let it turn into a mud fight. The elements at your disposal, as an employer, are very difficult to verify for us Members of Parliament. The only thing we MEPs can observe is the impact and impact on the policy of the matter over the coming months and years, unfortunately. Colleagues, in any case, the mistakes in the Conings case lie not only with ADIV, but also with other services of Defence. I really want to remind you of that. This has been demonstrated by the reports of the Defence Inspectorate and the reports of the Committee I. At a number of times, however, there was not only a lack of information about Jürgen Conings available to the Defence Department, but also to ADIV, which was insufficiently shared in the Defence Department, and no appropriate action was taken. I would like very briefly to quote three examples. In 2019, a criminal record was prepared on the occasion of racism on social media. That came on the radar of DG HR of Defense, but they didn't know how to react properly. When Jürgen Conings switched to the post where he had access to those weapons depots and ammunition, that information was not disclosed. Then there was a renewal of his security clearance between August 2019 and August 2020. ADIV decided to refuse it. It was reported to the land component, but with the land component, the alarm bells didn't go off. On 10 November 2020, there was a conversation between ADIV and the direct managers of Jürgen Conings, but that apparently was no reason to question the access he had to the weapons depots and ammunition. Are sanctions also being imposed in those other services of the Defense Department? Are you gonna get fired there, too? The fact that only the chief of ADIV quits feels agitated and unfair in that sense. That is also for a piece a normal reaction for someone who has followed and observed the file. I will not repeat the legal question, but I am also curious about the answer. Shouldn't such a decision be supported, wider than by you as a minister? Of course, it's not a discharge, that's an important fact. He's being replaced and transferred to another position in the Defense Department. I want to end with a look ahead to the years to come. The government has very concrete reform plans to finally turn ADIV into a performing organisation. The pain points, which have been raging for a decade, would now be addressed, challenges in terms of digitisation, information needs, rotations, the frequency of which should be reduced, and the stability of command, in short, the known problems. Then I am concerned because I see a clear breach of confidence between you and a number of top generals. If you don't get that sorted out, you won't get anything done in the Defense Department, while the government has a lot of reform plans. How do you intend to restore that trust, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanations that have been given. In my view, it is not only necessary to avoid underestimating the problem, but above all to avoid forgetting the primary objective, which some of us have undertaken long before the incidents, namely to look more particularly at the elements of the R Committee's reports on the fight against the far right, in Belgium in various places, and also elsewhere in Europe. It is no coincidence that this day coincides with the tenth anniversary of a dramatic incident in Norway. Why do I say that? Simply because the SGRS is an important tool, among a set of tools, to effectively fight against this extreme right, to identify it and to try to eradicate it This tool must continue to work, in coherence with other tools. This has begun to be a concern and hearings have taken place, including with the State Security Service. Secondly, the Conings dossier, which served as a revealing document, was concluded that there were other speakers, other actors, who would still deserve special attention. We are thinking of the Security of the State, the OCAM, etc., services which sometimes overlap and where communication is lacking from both a vertical and a transversal point of view. As far as Defence is concerned, I would like to say "attention"! I'm always wary of headcutters. There are always people who ask to drop heads. One of them was famous. It's Robespierre! He's not done well! So we should not set ourselves up as headcutters, absolutely! However, as far as Defence is concerned, we have had one last, very long meeting, with a series of analyses, acknowledgements of responsibility and also a set of measures, a plan to effectively correct the malfunctions, because there have been. This plan is within the overall framework of the policy defined, in particular in the Minister's general policy note and as presented here, in terms of personnel, of means, in terms of combating new phenomena, such as cybercrime. Following the meetings, decisions were taken. We heard each other. There were no redundancies. Thus, there is a problem with the management of Defence personnel that needs to be managed internally by both the political and military leaders at the highest level. It is up to them to make decisions, in accordance with the procedures. That's what's been done. There are not necessarily royal decrees since there is no dismissal. There's just a move. Humanly, it's always very difficult. But the decision on the reorganization that was taken on the basis of the finding that had been made is a joint responsibility. Parliament does not have to interfere in this kind of management of a ministerial department. Parliament has a supervisory role. It's up to him to ask questions. But it does not have to act in place of ministers and administrative officials. I think I can say that many of those present in this Chamber are insisting, above all, today, that the real effort be made, with energy, to implement all the provisions that have been announced for the SGRS and, in a comprehensive way, for the Defence, perhaps by giving it additional means, since it has been the victim of sustained austerity for a number of years. But the first thing to do is to restore a form of trust so that calm and serenity return. Indeed, it is only in such a context that useful work can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u18	Madam Minister, much has already been said about it, but there is virtually all agreement within the Defence Department that General Boucké, who is reform-minded and knows how to tackle it, is the right man in the right place. That is in stark contrast to the image you shamelessly portray of him here. He wouldn't be stress-resistant and burn-out camps. With words like that, you're going on slippery ice. You also claim that he gave a good impression only once, last week, here in committee. Medical records are confidential, so if your claims are correct, that is a breach of the medical records of the person concerned. If not, it's a flagrant character murder. Someone with a clear opinion, who dares to take statements and is not a yakker, may just not fit so well with the image you have of the organization. You have a very hierarchical image of Defence, where at the top of the hierarchy are the minister or her head of the cabinet, and among them the others who have to listen. I myself do not like that structure, which, in my view, mainly evokes images of an old political culture. I have a specific question to ask, in order to clarify what has preceded the disappearance of Jürgen Conings in recent months. What has gone wrong with your relationship with General Boucké? Have there been any conflicts? Is it true that the appointment committee decided in March during the appointment round that General Boucké could not make a promotion? I've seen a list of them. General Boucké does not stand there as someone who could be appointed, promoted. Why not? Why wasn't General Boucké appointed then? What advice did you receive on the appointment of the Defense Department? If he was on that list to get a promotion and you didn't fill it out, what was your reason for that? Is it true that maybe one of the reasons he could stay in office for longer? The higher the degree, the longer someone can remain in office. So you wanted to get rid of General Boucké earlier this year. Madam Secretary, every bird sings as it is beaked. You yourself conduct politics in a very aggressive way. That's your right. You still blamed me for being a hater. Mr Verduyckt, I can assure you that we have heard the Minister's line of defence, namely 'I am a woman, I am a socialist', also with regard to our party. So that's not new. Now she's using it for the defense summit. Madam Secretary, in Flanders people say "with vinegar you don't catch flies." Maybe that's the worst part. This committee agrees that more money should go to Defence, that more investment and staff are needed to meet the different national and international challenges. The saga of the past few weeks does not strengthen your position at all. Are you still convinced, as you yourself say, that you are the best woman in the best place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u19	Mr President, there are a lot of questions. I have already given you a presentation and explained to you the facts as they took place, in full transparency and honesty. Some people will believe me, others won't. It helps some and not others, but it's the facts as they happened. As far as communication is concerned, I am surprised because I have never communicated anything other than this joint communiqué, which was reread by CHOD and General Boucké. Until now, I have not expressed myself in any way, either on social media or in the press. Some say I've talked about the general's health problems, but I've never done it! I would have also said that I was being tried because I am a socialist francophone woman. I never said that! You'll have to show me where I said that in the press or on social media since this Friday announcement! I didn't say anything! Why? Out of respect! As I said, we talked at length and, out of respect for everyone, we agreed on as simple a communication as possible, without going into details that do not have to be disclosed in the public square. At the regulatory level, it is the Minister of Defence who proposes this royal order. In the past, a previous royal decree indicated the designation of General Boucké as head of the SGRS in place of another. That is what has been done before. I'm going back to the communication. Everyone went there from their interpretation – more or less happy. I can also understand the manifestations of sentimentality. However, I repeat: exchanges have been difficult for everyone, and it is certainly not I who have imposed my vision, contrary to what some have insinuated. It was normal and legitimate for me to question the follow-up to be given to the Conings case and the possibility that it would happen again – as well as you as Members of Parliament, and the general population. You yourself, in this House, have asked to be able to make a reform, to act quickly and to identify and react to any error or failure. It was therefore legitimate for me to ask myself the question of the future of the SMS, and of the person able to carry out this reform. However, no decision has been taken. At the time of the hearings, I was positively surprised at the way General Boucké presented things. Hence my inverse astonishment when I was told that he no longer wished to remain at the head of this service. We had a very long exchange. Moreover – since you mention General Boucké's communication – he later stated that there had indeed been constructive exchanges. It is as a result of this, and in a joint decision as indicated, that we did not dismiss General Boucké – as he will hold other positions in the Defence – but we replaced him with another person, always in the respect of everyone. The statements made by generals who are concerned about you are indeed regrettable. I can, however, add these two elements: they show a great deal of sentimentality and a significant lack of knowledge of the facts. When the Conings case started, I wanted to meet with the staff and the generals on the first day, so that some malfunctions could be admitted and we could work together to ensure that it didn't happen again. Yesterday, on our National Day, I spoke with some of these generals; they acknowledged that there was a bit of an impact in what was indicated, but they also said that they were expressing themselves in general, that they reiterated their support to me and that they were not attacks on me but on the policy of disinvestment that had been carried out throughout these many years. Personally, I did not feel animosity on the part of the people and generals with whom I spoke or on the part of CHOD. I don't know where that interpretation came from because I spent my day with him very cordially. At the rostrum, at the parade, I can't see myself turning around all the time to make a little chat. We've seen each other all day and the relationship is unchanged and very good. You can ask the interested parties if you wish. I'm going to follow up on the service. At present, General Boucké is replaced by his deputy, in the interests of continuity of service. This was planned since General Boucké had planned to take his leave. Wim Robberecht took office in mid-August. I would also like to refer to services. I understand that all this has been disturbing since the beginning of this crisis. You say you've never seen this in the Defence. I don't think you've ever known a Conings case either. At some point, it is a matter of taking substantial reforms, taking responsibility, which you asked me to do on the first day, some constructively, some less. Today, I believe that reaching this decision, with the various protagonists, is to be constructive and to act for the good of the service. You mustn't throw the child away with the bath water. This service works well and is recognized. I recently travelled abroad, where Defence is conducting operations. I had the opportunity to speak with many representatives of other nations who reaffirmed the quality of our intelligence service. The operations we conduct abroad are successes and I know, as I said earlier, that there are extraordinary people. For the sake of this service, it is necessary to work on a serene basis. It is in this spirit that I have carried out these reflections which have led to what we know today. It is certainly not, as I could hear, a matter of sticking to someone. I heard the word "decapitating" was used. That is not the case at all! When General Boucké left my office, he thanked me. We left on good terms. We'll have to see each other again. Is replacing this person going to undermine the security of the country? You found that it was fine – I am thinking in particular of the Conings case – and that nothing had to be done? In view of some reactions, I have been wondering for several days whether to do anything to be quiet and not to be put on the bench of the accused? Know that this is not my way of doing things. So I am clearly taking on my responsibilities. I'm not going to say I'm not going to do anything to avoid any trouble. I'll try to do the best I can, depending on what I think is best, by listening. Indeed, as has already been proven at various times, consultation is essential to me. The decision that was taken was therefore not anticipated. It is the consequence of all the elements I have explained to you. I hope we can get back on a good footing. I've heard of personnel reinforcements, of defence reconstruction. That's what I've been advocating since I took office, and that's what I want to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u20	Mr President, I would like to respond briefly. Madam Minister, I asked the specific question whether there have been incidents with the cabinet since Mr Boucké was appointed, and if so, about what? I have also heard that Peter Buysrogge has asked a number of specific questions about the appointment round. There's no answer to that. I take note of that. I'll tell you why I asked. I believe that the problematic relationship between the cabinet on the one hand and General Boucké on the other hand has been going on for a long time, and that this is now being used as the stick to bat the dog to death. I'll stick with that. I have enough information on that. You refuse to give information. My question is very specific: have there been incidents? Have there been any meetings with high-pitched quarrels? Have there been certain e-mails or other exchanges between the cabinet on the one hand and the ADIV top man on the other? What about the appointment round? If you cannot answer that, we will, of course, be able to think of them ourselves. The fact that he had to be taken away because it was so high at some point shows that there is a little more to it than just that he himself decided to give it up; that it is not a discharge and that you simply replaced it. I want to, but I don't believe that, do I? Anyway, I don't believe it. I have seen too much of this department, this cabinet in recent months, so that I do not believe in it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, something about the budgets. If it really is the case that people are priority becomes the point and I can believe that there will be a raise, I can only hope that this does not mean that there will be internal savings in defence and, more specifically, in operations and training. It is said in the corridors that internal savings will have to be made if we are to be able to raise wages in the defence apparatus. This is not only heard in the corridors, but also confirmed by the Secretary of State for the Budget, Mrs Eva De Bleeker. She said that if the top plan is implemented, that budget will have to be sought internally. Which means it's taken away elsewhere. I'd like to warn you about that. If that is the case, it will be a serious blow to the morale of our troops, because the barrel is simply finished, there can be no saving again. Secondly, it would be very bizarre to recruit thousands of new recruits on the one hand and to save on operations and exercises on the other. The young boys and girls who are now fully recruited naturally want to do useful work, not to lie on a british in a barracks looking at the ceiling. They want action and for that extra money is needed, so certainly no savings on operations and trainings. I call on all colleagues to bear this in mind when drawing up the 2022 budget. Perhaps we should make it very clear that additional internal savings in the defence sector are really not an option for us. At least I'd like to argue that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u21	Madam Minister, we would all have done well, and you would have done the first of this new agitation. Today, we have been paying for under-investment in staff and infrastructure for many years, and General Boucké has also had to deal with this situation as he could. Of course, it is a collective political responsibility of all those who have been in control for twenty years. Besides, they are present among us and they will recognize each other. However, I hear your explanations and justifications that clarify this decision. And if it turns out that the general was no longer able to keep the head of the service, I take note of it, even if I regret it and even if General Boucké, who seems to have a reputation for competence and integrity, seems to regret it himself by giving other explanations or another perception of reality. On the other hand, I hear colleagues talking here about scaffolds and guillotines – I still call them to restraint in their remarks. When the same complain that there is no truth in our time, but only tales and stories, it is good to remind them that verbal outrages are fully constitutive of this post-truth world. Today, it will be more than time to regain some stability around Defence and to invest all our energy in the project we have for it, because the heading has been set in the government agreement, but in this case, we see the swell more often than the lighthouse. I hope for everyone that the re-entry will restore a calm sea and a welded crew. Indeed, we have a high ambition for Defence with the revision of the strategic plan, which is under way. And we are going to need everyone, especially the staff, who must be a top priority, and who must feel confident. For staff to be confident, the staff must be self-confident, loyal and united. Today, this is not quite the case, although, as you said, he renewed his support to you yesterday, which I take note of. As I said, there are two major urgent projects, namely, the continuation of the reform of the SMS and the implementation of the recommendations and action plan – it is essential and everyone is aware of this – and the restoration of trust – an aspect that depends on you and the government, Minister. We will follow the sequence of events while remaining, as always, constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u22	Madam Secretary, I would like to respond to some of the things you said before and after the discussion. Your answers do not in any way reflect a new, fresh political culture, on the contrary. We also see this in other cases, not to mention WHI. Pure, flat power policy, which you abuse within an area as important as Defense. That is particularly regrettable. You say that you have never spoken in the entire file, out of respect for those involved and for the situation. Of course, you didn't do that directly, but you did it via-via. It seems clear to me that within your cabinet and within your party, others have been communicating with you. What are we doing with the semantic discussion that a person hasn't been fired, but has just been replaced? What does ADIV buy for that? What does the DOD buy for that? You say that some will believe you and others will not. That's right. We do not believe you, and we stand by our position just now. I don't believe you when you say you're hoping to continue working within the Defense Department on a sound basis. I don't think you can do that anymore in the given situation. You've thrown all your authority overboard and questioned all your authority by your way of doing things. You also deny the friction between your cabinet and the army leadership, but a blind man can see that reality is different. The open reactions and the public rebellion within the Defense Department are a sign of the situation you are in. That is extremely counterproductive for a security device such as Defence, and it is likely to become dangerous in the foreseeable future. Frankly, I think that the military and the staff have remained very polite in their reactions. Yesterday, we heard Admiral Hofman say what it was all about. I quote him literally: "Defension must stop doing things she can't do anymore. One of the lessons we learned from the Jürgen Conings case is that the DOD has to stop doing business if she can't do it anymore. It must dare to say openly and transparently that we will no longer do certain things." From that, I understand that from now on, the can do mentality within the Defense Department will be over. The means first! And if we still hear them say in that same breath that there are still savings to come, then we have to conclude that the pressure is going to be very, very high. I can only conclude that we hope that there will be better times for the defence, for the security of all of us. We will certainly follow up on this further, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u23	Madam Secretary, there's an important moment for the Defense Department. There are now two ways to go. You can go down the road saying that there are not enough resources for defence and that the budget needs to be increased in order to carry out the work normally. The opposition will support this budget expansion. Mr Francken will have no choice, one does not need to be a great politician to see it. The majority groups cannot do anything other than support this. So we simply need to insist on doing so. We are not yet giving you a blank cheque to put the project on the table, the funds will follow. You must work on this with all your competences, which you absolutely have, and submit them. That's the consensus path. I apologize for being so harsh earlier, but you have followed a different path, partly destroying that growing consensus. After all, you are following the path of saying that someone has made a mistake. Again, if that one person made a mistake, then a lot of politicians, including my party, have made a mistake. I believe that you must choose between these two paths and I urge you to follow that first path. I have never heard Wouter De Vriendt, who is always very loyal to the majority, as in his intervention today. The majority parties don't know what to do anymore. The path you need to follow is to tell us how much billion dollars you need for Defense. You must demand that you be given that money so that you can do the job. In that case, you will have every confidence in me and my group to roll this out. However, you must do so very quickly. You must now make a budget increase very quickly in order to raise the military's wages seriously, to buy enough equipment and so on. If you couldn't find enough people to support you within the majority, I'd like to be the rebel once, along with a number of people here. We must then support an amendment from this committee, regardless of the majority or opposition, and submit it in plenary, with the message that there must be money to be able to do the job properly. So my appeal is to keep the front closed and make sure there is no crushing. Keep the front closed, ask for more resources. They will come, you will shine, and you will reap the best of them personally. That's my call, in good faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u24	As a neutral chairman, perhaps I should take the initiative to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u25	Mr President, I have received an answer to my questions. The Minister remains with her story about how things actually turned out. In itself, we should not go further about that, because no one will benefit from a wells-nothing game. If the challenges for which Defence stands are clear, whoever is effectively at the head of the ADIV, and if the recommendations of the Committee I are addressed, then in principle it is irrelevant who is the competent minister or who is the top member of the ADIV. However, if the position of the minister is compromised and there is a breach of confidence between her and the military summit, there is a long-term risk that the yards that are to be tackled will not always run smoothly. I hope that the breach of confidence can be undone as quickly as possible and that clear communication and transparency on this dossier will be pursued. I can only repeat what I said in my first speech, namely that the debacle in the Conings dossier is mainly due to three factors: firstly, the inadequate flow of information; secondly, the shortage of staff; two problems which have been dragging on for a long time; and thirdly, the infiltration by the far right, which has often been minimized. If we take an approach in this area, regardless of who is in charge, we are, I think, on the right track. If, in the long term, you face the challenge of strengthening Defence and making it more attractive for recruitment, including with better wage conditions, we will certainly support you in this, insofar as Defence continues to focus on its core tasks. The situation today shows that Defence can offer even more help on the ground and support local authorities even better. I therefore believe that future defence policy should focus more on the interior and that less money should be spent on the purchase of expensive military equipment and the latest gadgets to help achieve the NATO agenda. I'm afraid it'll be one or the other. We cannot continue to invent resources and seek priorities everywhere, both operational preparedness for foreign interventions, NATO's obligation, and the recruitment of more staff through more attractive wage conditions and investment in infrastructure. If you take everything together, choices will have to be made. It is no surprise that if it depends on the Labour Party, the priorities must of course lie primarily in helping the nation and the defence of the country in the strict sense of the word.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u26	Mr. Chair, Minister, I thank you for your answers and your comments, which unfortunately do not satisfy me. The story you told us is quite surprising: your surprise when General Boucké comes to see you to be ruled out, it doesn't hold the road for a minute! Again this morning, you made a long plea that the general no longer had your confidence. You talked about failures, malfunctions, communication problems. He knew it and that's why he came to you, trying to keep his head high in this whole story. Again, it is not for me to judge the quality of this general. I believe in a collective responsibility about the malfunctions within the SGRS and, above all, a political responsibility. It must be stressed and this is what the staff is also reporting. I hear this morning that you have succeeded, not only in creating a breach of trust with your staff, but that you have also managed to upset your majority. I hear my colleague Hendrik Bogaert, I hear my colleague Wouter De Vriendt, but I also heard Mr Flahaut. You need to be careful about how you handle this kind of case. We need an intelligence service that meets our expectations. I do not think it is by acting in such a way that confidence can be restored. Compared to General Boucké who was weakened, if you really wanted to keep him as you suggested this morning, saying "positively surprised" by his performance in front of the House, it was enough to take a little time and check on the best possible scenario for the SGRS. I regret that this did not happen in this way because it was the whole chain of command that was involved in these dysfunctions, including at the political level. You now have an important political responsibility as you alone take on this gap, without referring to your majority. We will look forward to the restoration of serene management and less chaotic political decisions than you presented this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u27	Mr President, I believe that Mr Dallemagne has heard me but has not listened to me well!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your additional answers and clarification. General Boucké has spoken out publicly at some point. He won't do that now. He still works at the Department of Defense, in a high position, a visibly sensitive post, also politically loaded. You say in your story that you have a number of valid elements to make that decision. I have just said that for the sake of privacy, for the sake of the employer-employee relationship, it is logical that all the elements you have at your disposal cannot and should not necessarily be brought into the public sphere. As Members of Parliament, we are faced with this situation. Very much remains word and reply, with the understanding that Boucké will not speak now. He is silent and you come to Parliament with your statement and your explanation. Should it prove that this dismissal does not take place by mutual agreement, I assume that someone of that rank can challenge this decision internally, in the defense, within the military, as in any normal organization? I suppose it's up to General Boucké to move on with this if he wanted to, but then we're really in the employer-employee relationship. Then I have another remark regarding the breach of trust between you and some members of the general staff, The well-being of Defence as an organization must of course be paramount. Jürgen Conings was already a hit. The resonance of this Boucké affair also sounds loud. At the same time, as a minister, you have a lot of plans for this government. We support that. This year, an additional EUR 500 million will be allocated to the Defense Department. That's not nothing. That's a good decision. The fact that you want to focus on human resources is very good after many years of investing in material. Strengthening the update of the strategic vision and an important challenge such as cyber are the right angles to continue working on Defense. Of course, defence needs peace and stability, especially with a new government and new plans. The noses will have to stand in the same direction, otherwise none of that will come into the house. You have work as a minister after this affair, but also the Defense Department will have to close ranks. Defence will also have to show the flexibility to be a reliable partner for the politics and for the many reform plans we are developing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u29	Madam Minister, I did not receive any answers to my specific questions about the appointment committee. I also take note of your answer about the rumor of the burn-out. You have formally said that this rumor cannot come from either you or your cabinet. I therefore assume that this rumor is not correct and that the person concerned does not have a burn-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u30	Mr. Chair, as far as the committee is concerned, there are a limited number of generals to whom we can give stars. A choice was made according to different criteria but that did not mean that it was a sanction. Not at all. There will be more committees next year. For the rest, they say he "must be evacuated." That's not true! I heard I talked about the fact that he had to be evacuated by ambulance. That's not true! This did not happen at all! Someone may fall in tension, but I've never talked about it! I don't know who's having fun throwing such rumors, but it's totally unhealthy! I agree with what some people say: it is totally inappropriate to speak this way, especially since it is not the truth. I also heard the need for action plans and priorities. That is exactly what we announced we would want to do. Today, Defence is no longer in a position to carry out all of its missions. That is what the action plan serves: what priorities are being set? And we will obviously have to allocate the means to ensure that these priorities can be achieved by the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic561x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarification. At the appointment committee, in the appointment round in March, he did not make it. At the appointments you made, he wasn't there. I assume he was on lists to be appointed, but you finally chose not to appoint him, of which you are aware. Allow me to return to the rumor of the possible burn-out. Some journalists have written, independently of each other or at least side by side, that this has been said in circles of the minister. Of course, that is something very annoying and it also radiates on you. If that information does not come from you or your cabinet, in which you are very formal, then I suggest that you ask the journalists concerned for a correction. If that information does not come from you and if that information is not true, then I think it is important that correct information is given in the press, as you like to control it.
