ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u1	Minister, I am compelled to note that I have to ask this question to the successive Finance Ministers who have been sitting in Parliament ever since. Problems are regularly encountered in the Tax-on-web system. Sometimes it takes some time to solve them. I think you have already had to react to these problems by extending the deadlines for filing tax returns, for example. Minister, don't you think it would be helpful to look at a reconfiguration of the site? Madam President, in order to ease the work of our committee, I would like to turn my following questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u2	Questions Nos 55022131C, 55022627C and 55022799C by Ms Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u3	Minister, a number of questions can be deleted in order to avoid duplication of effort. However, a number of questions are contained in combined questions and I cannot decide on them alone. As regards Tax-on-web, you have already replied in the context of the discussion of the policy paper. My specific question on automatic renewal, for example, is mentioned here. I would like to make one more point. Your intention is that I can follow the logic and objective of pushing forward the deadlines and reducing the discrepancy between taxable persons who work without an accountant and those who work with them. What were the reasons why the processing via Tax-on-web was delayed in the first half of September? However, I would like to reiterate the call for the FPS Finance to provide the templates needed to adjust the company tax return software packages in the past, so that the accounting offices can start reporting earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I apologise for not being physically present, but I have a duty, like some of your colleagues. For the question itself, I refer to the written version of my question as it was tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u5	Madam President, Minister, for several years there have been significant problems with the operation of FPS Finance's online service platforms for filing tax returns. At the beginning of October, the Institute of Tax Advisors and Accountants (ITAA) wrote to its members, noting a series of problems that had been identified: the dysfunction of mandates, errors, infinite downloads, lost documents, sessions that expired in an unexpected manner, etc. I get testimony from people who can't. My question was tabled a month ago. But, still today, the number workers are exhausted and exhausted, which has an impact on their mental and physical health. I would remind you that this problem has existed for several years. To give you an example, while the deadline for filing PPI returns had been extended to November 8th, on Sunday, November 7th to the evening, the platforms were again broken down. We are very demanding of the professions of the number and we are right to be. But they must be given the opportunity to do their job properly. However, these failures in computer operations put pressure on all actors and complicate the proper functioning of the tax machine. As a result, you have received requests for extensions of certain deadlines to which you have responded. Minister, what are the identified causes of these recurring dysfunctions? What conclusions do you draw? You have proposed an additional period of time, but from a structural point of view, is there not anything else to be done? Are you considering an action plan so that tax collection can be done without technical problems? I am thinking, for example, of access to platforms as early as March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u6	Minister, the context is clear; colleagues have already outlined the situation. I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u7	Mr Finance Minister, I also have a question in this topical debate. Although tax delays are exceeded, the MyMinfin website is still unavailable at some times. I even think of softening a little by saying "at certain times", given all that I have heard from the various speakers. This obviously blocks the professionals of the number in the exercise of their activity, but not only. It would appear that the problems of instability during periods of high demands on the site are linked to the software used for identification. In addition, some experts believe that the network architecture used for the various FPS Finance applications is not able to adapt during periods of high attendance of the applications in question. Finally, although it appears that sites are increasingly accessible, when they are, they are often unusable. The site is accessible, but the loading logo of the site remains displayed without any possibility to continue. This problem, as Mrs Jadin said very well, has been known for several years. A state of affairs in every detail would really please us. We would like to know what solutions you are considering. If taxpayers and professionals are unable to complete the formalities over time, will the tax administration be understanding taxpayers? Is it going to punish them or not? Is a thorough revision of the architecture and general operation of these applications planned? In what terms? Have you launched an audit and a public procurement in this area, allowing you to consider a qualitative leap to solve this problem? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for the declaration on personal income tax is, of course, determined on the basis of the planning of the collection of the personal income tax attacks. This year's deadline has only been brought forward by one day compared to last year's original deadline. On September 23, I responded to a letter from the Institute of Tax Advisors and Accountants (ITAA) regarding issues related to my administration's e-services. I confirmed that in September and October there were indeed some concerns about the availability of these e-services due to various reasons, which were not always attributable to my administration. However, there was no question of structural unavailability. On 14 October, after intensive consultation with the ITAA and my administration, I decided to grant a final one-off delay for the submission of the declarations in the personal income tax by man data officers until 8 November. The consequences of the corona crisis, which were also felt by them, were one of the arguments. After all, the corona crisis sometimes also made it more difficult for taxpayers to meet all their tax obligations. Since managers have certainly contributed to the alleviation of the additional problems caused by the corona crisis for their customers, it was logical to grant their postponement. Furthermore, it should be noted that the absence of spread in the head of agents causes applications to continue to pose problems as the deadline for filing approaches. This issue will be discussed in consultation with my administration and ITAA in order to identify possible solutions. In addition, joint efforts were made to plan, organise and spread the submission of corporate tax returns this year. For this reason, the deadline for the corporate tax return was not extended this year; the deadline and deadline remained on 28 October. In addition, my strategic unit, my administration and ITAA are working together to improve the timing of future reporting in order to avoid a structural delay and to preserve the availability of e-services in my administration throughout the filing and reporting period. The number of reports shows that there was no significant impact compared to last year. Indeed, on 8 November 2021, 1,165,281 passenger tax declarations were lodged compared to 887,285 in 2020 and 1,152,076 in 2019 on the same date. This year, too, the numbers were higher than the last two years. On 28 October, the limit date for the submission of declarations in corporate tax, non-residents/corporations and legal persons tax, 487 964 declarations were lodged, corresponding to the number of declarations made in previous years. In conclusion, we have always followed the situation very closely, evaluated the figures and assessed the impact if necessary. In addition, we have found that there was never a structural impact, the possible non-performance of e-services. We will, of course, remain in consultation with the professional organisations to see how we can even better organise the system with the submission dates in the coming years. For example, we also have a meeting with the ITAA this evening, but that will of course only have an impact from the next few years. I still think it is important to consult with the ITAA, my cabinet and the administration to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u9	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. I'm still a little surprised. You explain to us that there are no significant problems justifying an extension of time. I can hear it. But it's obviously not well experienced by FPS Finance clients, many of whom use online services, especially for their tax returns. I also hear, minister, that you are going to think about a better distribution of the online filing of tax returns. It is certainly a solution to spread deposits and avoid overloads. In addition, you will review the performance of these platforms that will meet – and will certainly meet again in the years to come – a great success.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the consultation with the sector, with the ITAA, is very important. It is important that you take the further steps in close consultation. You must also ensure that there is a balance between the efforts you require from the sector and the managers and the efforts to be made by the FPS in terms of organisation and information technology in order to move those deadlines forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u11	Madam President, Minister, we raised these persistent problems for the first time during the previous question session, together with colleagues from the MR. Today we are raising this again, together with colleagues from many other parties, opposition and majority. I would therefore like to make a warm appeal to you so that we do not have to ask the same questions again next year. This is, after all, a structural problem: the availability and accessibility of platforms really needs to be improved. I am therefore calling for this dossier to be taken into our hands so that we do not have to come back next year. It has already been said by my fellow Members, who are wasting a great deal of time on these technical problems. A government that wants to make digitalisation a point must really help it out by next year. So I am making a warm call to address this problem and to resolve it in a final manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers to our questions. I note positively that you are currently talking with the professionals of the number, in particular with the ITAA. I hope that this will continue to encourage you to improve the available platforms. You say you want to avoid a structural postponement. This is obviously an objective that we can share. Why not open the platforms before the usual dates? Why not give access to these platforms to professionals and citizens before July? I invite you to think about it. You also say that there is no impact on the number of statements. All right. But I wonder about the reports that are likely to be incomplete because, at times, people are not able to indicate the fullness of the data, as the platform blocks. This means that, subsequently, there is an overload of work for the SPF in terms of requests for further information. The poor functioning of these platforms in any case has harmful consequences both on the efficiency of the work and on the image of the administration. This is regrettable because it is really important to have an effective tax collection that respects every taxpayer. You know the attachment I have to a fair and correct collection of contributions from each and every one of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a good thing that you are consulting with the various sectors. In addition, it is also good that structural work is being carried out to better spread and to avoid problems. That is necessary, because computer systems and networks are beautiful as long as they work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I am concerned. I think the problems have existed for a long time. Of course, you are not responsible for anything that would not have been done before you, but if nothing is done now, your successor will have to deal with the same problems that will have accumulated. It's a fact, and you don't dispute it. You say that this has no influence on the filing of returns. I agree with Mrs Cornet. If the statements are incomplete, it is because we have to go fast, because of the blockages encountered. The number professionals ask taxpayers to enter their data much earlier when they are not themselves ready for a lot of reasons. However, if taxpayers consult professionals, it is often to get help and avoid having too much administrative work in their business. So they get help from numbers professionals to be able to contribute to the community because, spontaneously, they want to do it. The more time it takes for taxpayers to return their documents and figures to their accountants and others, the more difficult it will be to manage. They don't just have to do that! It is necessary to try to ensure that this system works and, at the time it is planned, within a few weeks before the deadline, allow both the taxpayer and the professional of the figure to introduce the full declaration, under the best conditions. This is a real problem that we must try to solve. I do not have the solution, but I would like you to insist on the administration and give the necessary impetus for this problem to begin to be solved in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u15	Madam President, I can at least promise and confirm that I will be a true Christian Democrat in this matter and transfer what I have inherited in this dossier better than what I have received.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u16	Mr Minister, as a Christian Democrat myself, I am absolutely delighted to hear these words and I will, as a good Christian Democrat, monitor what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u17	Mr. Lacroix requested that his question No. 55019102C be transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u18	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u19	Madam President, Mr Donné, like you, I have heard that the European Commission has launched a call for tenders for a feasibility study on a European asset register under AML and the fight against tax evasion. This was not discussed in the Ecofin Council. That is normal because, as you know, the Commission has a broad right of initiative and can freely decide on what initiatives it considers useful in preparing any legislative initiatives. I understand that, in the first instance, it would be only about the possible linking of information from different existing national sources. Given that this is an initial examination by the Commission, that there is no concrete proposal on the table and that it is not even certain that there will ever be a concrete proposal, it is premature at this stage to consider the possible consequences of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You should be careful, I believe, to ensure that Europe remains within its powers. There has been a tendency lately that this is less and less so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u21	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u22	Madam President, Mr Donné, the administration is currently giving priority to multilateral negotiations on the taxation of the digitised economy and the introduction of minimum taxation for large multinational companies. For this reason, most of the ongoing negotiations of double taxation treaties have been temporarily postponed. However, it is of course useful to keep interested stakeholders, citizens and businesses informed of what is going on in this area. I will therefore ask my administration to put a new negotiating calendar on the FPS Finance website by the end of 2021 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which is enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u24	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u25	Mr Donné, in the course of the 1962 tax reform, it was clear that the legislator's intention was to deduct foreign taxes from the foreign income to be indicated in Belgium. This principle has since been established and has been consistently anchored by the introduction of the Income Tax Code 1992. This means, in concrete terms, that the foreign tax is deducted from the foreign occupational income for the calculation of the additional municipal tax. There have been no legislative changes in this area so far, so that the principle remains applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u26	It is a good thing, Minister, that you clarify this, because a large number of border municipalities are asking questions and have also received incorrect information during some kind of colloquium. We received reasonable questions as to whether they did not miss any income there, hence my question. I am therefore pleased that you have confirmed very clearly the practice that has been in place so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u27	Mr Vermeersch, I would like to inform you that your questions will not be translated simultaneously, since you are not wearing a headset.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u28	Madam President, during the last corona period, the headset I am wearing was sufficient, but I take note of the new rules on this matter. I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u29	Mr Vermeersch, the revenue from the Special Contribution to Social Security (BBSZ) amounts to EUR 1.2 billion for the 2019 tax year. The discs and the maximum amount of the Special Social Security Contribution have never been indexed. As mentioned in the report of the Supreme Court of Finance, the cost of the individual tax regime for athletes, referees and trainers has been estimated at EUR 7.2 million. It's about numbers from the 2019 tax year, revenue year 2018. According to the report, the abolition of the copyright regime is estimated at EUR 121 million on the basis of the 2020 tax year, revenue year 2019. The report also states that the cost of the tax reduction for long-term savings related to the mortgage loan is €100.6 million for the tax year 2020, revenue year 2019. It is a long-term impact, because of course the abolition is only possible for new contracts. Under the 2022 budget, the Government has decided to reduce the Special Contribution to Social Security. My intention is, following the advice of the Supreme Court of Finance, to abolish the Special Contribution to Social Security in the long term. That will of course be discussed with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u30	Mr Minister, when I submitted this question, your plan was not to delete the Special Contribution to Social Security but to put them out, not yet known. Its complete deletion would have a cost of EUR 1.2 billion, whereas what is now available according to your latest table has a cost of EUR 225 million per year. Of course, that's something completely different. You do not delete the contribution, you extinguish it and you provide for three compensations. They're known by now. In particular, it is a question of not paying the company tax, much higher excise duties on new types of tobacco products and, of course, the much discussed boarding tax. There will be questions about this later today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u31	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u32	Mr Minister, it is about the loan from the federal budget to the Walloon Region to alleviate the flood damage. Flanders was also willing to borrow money, but there was less interest in it. We have not yet worked out this issue in depth in Parliament. We have to do that, maybe the next few weeks. I have a number of technical and legal questions, as well as budgetary questions and a political question. You have read the technical question: how is that correct? What interest will be charged? What about the refund? What is the risk of non-refunding? You also know the legal questions: can we do that? Until now, I have not seen a hard legal analysis that, in view of the Special Financing Act and the agreements on the division of powers, the federal funds can be used to grant loans to finance Land needs. The Special Financing Act seems to leave no room for that. It would be interesting to know how you see it and what legal advice has been sought on it, to make sure it lasts. We certainly do not want a lifeboat to be thrown, which would sink itself. I also have questions regarding the budget. They can be discussed next week, but I would like to signal this. How exactly is this booked? We have received the tables for 2022, but I do not immediately find the figures of the Debt Agency on how this will be included. Maybe this is a heads-up to discuss next week. I will take the political questions for the reply or next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I can confirm that the Belgian State's loan to the Walloon Region is perfectly legitimate. This is not a donation, which would indeed be contrary to the Special Law of 16 January 1989 to which you refer, Mr Loones, but an investment in the form of a loan. The Special Law of 16 January 1989 allows the Regions to borrow. The Act of 11 July 2018 on Deposit and Settlement Cash allows investments in financial instruments issued by a public institution within the meaning of the ESA, including loans to Regions. The concrete terms of the loan still need to be fixed, but no reforms for the Walloon Region will be linked to this federal loan. Since it is an ordinary loan, the Belgian State has the same security as other competing creditors. The best risk assessment available to us today is carried out by the credit rating agencies. The current rating granted to Moody's to the Walloon Region is A2, which is considered investment grade. It is also the sixth best level on a scale of 21. The fixed market rate for the loan will be determined when the funds are effectively made available and will also be based on the Belgian government's financing curve. Due to the scale of the disaster, the amount of the damage not covered by the insurers also exceeded the amount of the Walloon disaster fund available, which also forced the Walloon authorities to borrow. In view of the exceptional nature of the disaster and the extent of the damage, the Federal Government has indeed decided to show solidarity with Wallonia and to grant a loan to the Walloon Region. Thus, the federal government does not deposit anything into the Walloon disaster fund itself, but lends a loan to the Walloon Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u34	Minister, I would like to emphasise very clearly that the Flemish interest is obviously prepared to show solidarity with Wallonia after the misery of that natural disaster. However, the proposals made by Wallonia in connection with the preliminary phase of the loan have nothing to do with solidarity. For example, the proposals of Secretary of State Dermine were a blow in the air. Mr Dermine even felt that transfers of at least EUR 7 billion per year from Flanders to Wallonia were not generous enough. The Flemish interest is therefore not surprised that the disaster fund in Wallonia, to which you turn around in your answer, turns out to be an empty box. On the other side of the language border, there is no need to keep one's own cash in order or to carry out any reform. We are not alone in this criticism. Perhaps you have read the tweets by Professor Stijn Baert of Ghent who says that the attitude of the French-speaking people is hampering any reform and strengthening of the region. Reforms are necessary. Wallonia needs to reform so that it can cope with its own emergencies without always relying on other people's money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u35	Minister, it makes sense that we should help. The many Flemings on the ground in the affected region every day prove our solidarity. I'm a little worried when I look at the situation. The fact that Wallonia is not able to borrow funds directly on the banking and financial markets is something we should all be concerned about. It points to a deeper problem. I am also concerned about the set-up of the legal structure. I would therefore like to receive the legal note on how this is precisely substantiated. The reference to the legal provisions is clear, but it is quite far-reaching. If that becomes a principled attitude, little does the federal government stand in the way of starting to issue loans for all and all for state powers and, in fact, to split powers without splitting them. Belgium can simply take off the clothes and lend its own cash. The boundary between helping and using powers or placing a government in a situation where federal powers are not sufficiently funded may become very thin with such a reasoning. So let us make sure that the file is legally sufficiently firm. After all, it is about more than a billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u36	Although this is not a topical debate, I would like to say to the two speakers who have just spoken that I appreciate Mr Loones' nuanced reply. It is indeed interesting to have a legal opinion. For me, too, transfers between the federal and the regions, and vice versa, must be clearly identified in order to pursue a comprehensive policy that allows the federal government to pursue its substantive mission. Now it's a loan. So let's not mix it up. We agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u37	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u38	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, the government has not increased the tax on the securities account, the rate of 0.15% is maintained. This also means that the budgeted revenue from this tax for this year amounts to EUR 377.8 million. This amount will be paid in December. For 2022, the revenue from that tax will be at cruising speed and a receipt of EUR 428.7 million is budgeted. It is, of course, normal under the rule of law that residents sometimes have objections to new legislation. It is therefore up to the judiciary to check the objections against the relevant legislation. The government has taken into account legal concerns expressed in the previous securities tax when establishing the current tax on the securities account. As a result, the taxable base has also been extended a fortiori.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u39	Mr Minister, my question was, of course, inspired by the insane proposals put forward by PS President Paul Magnette. Under the term 'ecosocialism', whatever that means, he suggested making public transport free of charge. Free does not exist, however. The cost of that whole story is estimated at around EUR 700 million. When asked how he would pay that, Paul Magnette replied that the securities tax would be increased from 0.15% to 0.5%. In committee, we have always warned against this. Our words have not yet been filed in Parliament's reports, and they are already being proved. In fact, the percentage of securities tax, which has not even been introduced, can be increased if the budget is needed. You confirm, of course, that this 0.15%, the income from the securities tax, will not be increased, but we will keep our heart in the future budget negotiations. After all, it is as simple as Paul Magnette proposes, namely simply increasing the percentage from 0.15% to 0.5%, and this new tax is suddenly creating an additional EUR 700 million tax. A danger, because this government is constantly looking for money because of its partners' insane plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u40	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u41	Madam President, Minister, an article in the newspaper Le Soir analyses the margin of manoeuvre of the Special Tax Inspectorate (SI) in tracking offshore companies, especially after the Pandora Papers, and points out that "internal and external sources of the FPS Finance are concerned about a lack of means to combat fraud with a large F." It follows that "all the names in the Leaks will not pass the selection", adds the article which quotes an agent of the tax: "If it represents big means for few results, we will not do it, even if we are certain that there is fraud. It's a question of balance." However, there are questions about what "low results" means for Pandora Papers. It is not ordinary taxpayers who use channels using tax havens such as Seychelles, Panama, etc., as is seen in these cases. On the other hand, with regard to requests for information addressed to other States in connection with the tracking of these major fraudsters, an official told Le Soir newspaper that "despite the OECD conventions on tax cooperation, there is no guarantee of a complete or timely response". Minister, can you guarantee that all Belgian Pandora Papers files will be subject to tax control? If not, how do you justify the lack of control? What criteria would then be applied in order not to control a Pandora Papers folder? Do you confirm the incompleteness and inappropriate delays in the Leaks and Papers files? In these files, what is the percentage of requests for which the answer is not really exploitable because it is non-existent, too late or too incomplete?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u42	My problems are resolved as they progress. Mr. Laaouej has reappeared. Mr Laaouej, you have the floor on the Panama Papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u43	Madam President, Minister, during the Panama Papers Committee, I referred to the fact that we would certainly not be in the last scandal. Unfortunately, the facts have made me right. It is with some weariness that after Offshoreleaks, LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks, Bahama Papers and Panama Papers, we now discover the Pandora Papers. The question is, when is this going to stop? This is starting to tire, but we must not become fatalist. This must not become a fatality. We must continue to be indignant at this tax injustice, not to resign ourselves and above all not to accept the idea that wealthy companies or individuals can thus evade the tax while the workers, on the other hand, pay their taxes honestly. This is an injustice that becomes unsustainable. We are therefore faced with new revelations from the international consortium of journalists who have done a colossal work of analysis. There are almost 12 million documents, with 29,000 economic beneficiaries identified through front companies. That's double the Panama Papers scandal. In Belgium alone, 33,700 files were analysed and 1,217 Belgian occurrences were identified as being related to an offshore. Minister, could you take stock of the investigations related to the latest scandals, the number of cases already closed, and the amount of recruitment? As far as the Pandora Papers are concerned, we know that the government has set itself the objective of fighting tax evasion, particularly major tax fraud, in a determined and priority way. I would remind you, minister, that this is included in the government agreement. So how are you going to react to this emerging scandal? Are you going to consult with your colleagues in the Justice and the Interior to hire staff to strengthen the fight against fraud? As we know, with the new files that seem to be coming, it's more than time to strengthen the teams. I have tabled, in a text, an integrated plan to combat financial crime, which is at your disposal. I can pass it on to your office. These are not revolutionary ideas. These are simple ideas that do not require additional resources but a concentration of resources, including the re-establishment of the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Crime (OECDO), for example, but also with better coordination and certainly easier access to certain information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u44	Mr Laaouej, the follow-up to the Panama Papers recommendations has been the subject of a question from this committee to which a detailed answer has been given. The reply was transmitted to the secretariat. Here you will find an update on the implementation of the recommendations that fall within my jurisdiction. As far as the follow-up of the so-called leak files is concerned, my administration is basically investigating the constructions that she is aware of. First a preliminary study is carried out and if that is positive, the research is launched effectively. The previous leaks thus led to a total of 1,096 cases opened for a result of 690 million euros. The investigation is still under way for 107 cases. The fight against international fraud is indeed important. In addition to the structural measures already planned in the personnel plan of the FPS Finances, I have planned, during the preparation of the 2022 budget, an additional recruitment of officials to be deployed in the general administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes. The first call for candidates has already been launched. At the same time, the Ministerial Committee instructed the College to draw up a second action plan to combat tax and social fraud, an action plan specifically aimed at international topics. The College has started to do so and we will soon be receiving proposals for this. Like the AML package proposed by the European Commission last summer, every money laundering directive aims to improve the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the sixth anti-money laundering directive. That directive contains provisions on the fight against money laundering by criminal law, so that, as far as transposition is concerned, I refer to the Minister of Justice. Where appropriate, international cooperation can be an effective tool in the processing of a case, and we will use it if necessary. In addition, a Joint International Tax Shelter Information Centre has been established within the OECD to exchange information on the Pandora Papers file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u45	Minister, I really believe that we need to build on the resources. The crisis of public finances is known because of the health crisis; the Lehman Brothers crisis has barely recovered from the crisis of the health crisis with a 20 billion hole. Moreover, in order to ensure social cohesion and citizens' adherence to public policies, the fight against fiscal injustice, and therefore the fight against tax fraud, is really fundamental. If there are two or three things to do with your Justice and Home colleagues, it is first of all to re-establish the Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime (OECDO), which has seen its staff increase from more than 60 to 16 people. It was an integrated strike force with police, fiscal, accounting and financial expertise. You really have to do it, Minister! This will provide you with an effective deterrent against a number of financial criminals. Then there's the booty hunt. If we want to hurt those who are complacent in financial crime, and who make big tax fraud their favorite playground, we must aim for the loot. By aiming for looting, you will deter them and deprive them of the means that enable them to fuel the pump – also for other criminal activities. In addition, an update on the Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation is required. A report by the Court of Auditors indicates that it does not work. What is the state of this public instrument? Where are we? It is not necessarily within your remit, but you must also take a language with your colleagues. The question of the fictitious interposition of people, men of straws, front companies – offshore or onshore, whatever – is also essential. There are no big frauds if there is not a financial circuit and there is not a screen. It is essential to empower all services in order to be more effective. With respect to the Minister of Justice, I have made a number of recommendations to him, such as on the issue of appeal courts. If, at some point, some financial criminals, the big tax fraudsters say, "I'm caught in the bag but anyway, there won't be a judgment before ten or fifteen years," you understand that they have time to organize their insolvency and to hide their money abroad. Justice doesn't scare them. The arm of the state that must be able to react to defend itself is not scary if people think that in any case they will not be tried for ten years. Some even consider that it is better to lose at first instance and file an appeal because they know that it will drag. There is therefore a need to strengthen magistrates sitting, particularly in appeal courts, as well as prosecutors' offices. Here too, it is necessary to really discuss it with Minister Van Quickenborne so that a judge responsible for financial matters can deal exclusively with it. He should not be assigned a case of this nature on Mondays and, on Tuesdays, a common crime such as murder. No, specialisation must be introduced in the public prosecutor's offices. Some 15 proposals have been submitted, through which this plan to combat financial crime can be deployed. The facts demonstrate the need for this on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u46	Minister, we are currently examining the information relating to the implementation of the recommendations of the Panama Commission, which we have requested and which we have received in the meantime. We look forward to an in-depth exchange of views on your fraud plan in Parliament, I assume at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u47	Minister, I have not heard any commitment from you to ensure that all Pandora Papers files will be subject to control by the tax authorities. I find this problematic. In our country, tens of thousands of self-employed people, SMEs and employees with real costs are monitored every year. In this case, 1,217 Belgians have resorted to mechanisms of great tax evasion through tax havens and there is no commitment to control them all. When one sees the treatment of previous cases, such as Panama Papers and others, by the FPS Finances, one realizes that the balance sheet of controls is not extraordinary. It's serious. This amounts to giving the fraudsters a carte blanche by telling them to go there lightly because they risk very little. In addition, we know that your position with regard to tax havens is rather weak. You say that Belgium alone can do nothing against these paradises. So let's do it! You indicate that you will, from Budget 2022, hire new staff to carry out certain control tasks. However, when we see your figures, we find that the number of staff is decreasing: 60 fewer officers for the whole FPS Finance in the projections for 2022. Even at the level of control services, where officers should be hired, there is a decrease of 9 officers. It's not much, but rather than going up, we're going down. There is no desire at all to combat this major tax fraud despite the fact that business continues to take place. These Pandora Papers are particularly serious but the answer is not up to this gravity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u48	Madam President, I refer to the question tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u49	Mr Van der Donkt, the message of the National Bank is clear: we must be careful not to pay dividends and bonuses. European institutions such as the European Systemic Risk Board also proclaim this. There is no special procedure in the form of prior notification or approval. However, in the context of the dialogue with their supervisor, financial institutions are expected to communicate their policy intentions, including on their financial positions or capital planning, in a timely manner. This is one of the best practices. In addition, the supervisor has instruments to act if it appears that the financial institution is compromising its financial position as a result of irresponsible policy on the distribution of dividends or bonuses. Belfius limited the dividend to EUR 77 million for the financial year 2020, in line with the ECB's recommendations on dividend payments of December 2020. The normal pay-out ratio of 40 % was therefore limited to 15 %. However, it was already stated at the time that the intention was to pay an additional dividend of EUR 130 million for the financial year 2020 as soon as the abovementioned ECB recommendations were dropped. The additional payment of EUR 130 million is therefore a catch-up to reach the normal pay-out ratio of 40%, since the ECB recommendations on dividends were not extended after September 2021. Belfius has, of course, made the necessary analyses to see whether such an additional benefit is feasible. The results of these analyses were positive, inter alia because of the bank's strong solvency position and the bank's better-than-expected commercial results in the first half of 2021. Generally speaking, the pay-out ratio is a decision of the General Assembly, on a proposal from the Management Board. A prudent dividend policy for Belfius and in the event of expansion for each bank actually takes into account the current solvency position, the expected situation on the basis of the financial plan, and the internal capital liquidity assessment process that each bank has to carry out annually. With this exercise, a bank looks at, based on its own specificity, which capital buffers it must maintain, even in periods of stress. The ECB, as a supervisor of Belfius, assesses the capital and dividend distribution plans as part of the regular supervision. In short, the Belgian State's freedom to demand dividends from Belfius for budgetary purposes is limited. The COVID-19 health crisis has led to a projected decline in dividends. The dividends of the financial institutions are paid into the Treasury via the FPIM. In 2019, 641 million euros of dividends were paid out. In 2020, only Royal Park Investments' dividend was paid out, amounting to 1.7 million euros. In 2021, dividends have so far been paid out to the tune of EUR 351 million. The additional dividend of Belfius is expected to be paid out at around EUR 128 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u50	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u51	Ms Florence Reuter is stuck in another committee and has asked to postpone her question No 55021602C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u52	Mr Minister, on 29 September, a research report was published by Mr Buy into Occupation, a collaboration between 25 organisations in Palestine, Belgium, France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain and the United Kingdom. That coalition investigates the financial relations between companies active in the illegal Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory and the European financial institutions. The report charts how 672 European financial institutions maintained financial relationships with 50 companies active in these settlements between January 2018 and May 2021. Financial relationships worth $ 255 billion were identified. Belgian banks and investment funds also appear in the report. The most important name is BNP Paribas, which appears to be the largest creditor of companies active in the illegal settlement industry and is also the twelfth largest European investor with investments in surveillance activities, companies that destroy Palestinian houses and even arms producers. The federal government is still the largest shareholder of BNP Paribas and our country is very committed to human rights. Minister, what will you do to address these practices and call the bank to account? What are you going to do to make the bank review its relations with companies active in the settlement industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u53	Mrs Reynaert, BNP Paribas invests according to its own code or conduct in which, of course, the policies on social engagement are strictly applied. The strategy of the FPIM, our Federal Participation and Investment Company, which is an effective shareholder, has also evolved. The FPIM has developed internal tools in the area of governance and social responsibility. Whether historical or more recent, the FPIM is constantly ensuring that its portfolio is also inclined to those recognised standards in all areas. In fact, we are following this issue closely in the cabinet. But as has been said, the bank, which operates according to its own code or conduct, and our FPIM ensure that we work within the framework of our social responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u54	Minister, according to the report, there is still work to be done. I therefore ask you to act actively, because what we are reading is really not possible. In the meantime, the government has developed a differentiation policy on Israel on the one hand and settlements in the Palestinian territories on the other. It states that the FPS Finance and you as the competent minister undertake to increase the control of imported goods from Israel and to ensure that goods from the settlements do not enter our country. It also states that you will consult with similar Member States at European level. So it would be embarrassing if a bank of which we are the largest shareholder were to invest in settlements. On the one hand, we would be helping to finance these companies, but on the other hand we would prevent them from being imported. That would be better included in the note. It is in favour of a strong law on compulsory care for companies and financial institutions. We believe that they must respect social rights, environmental rights, human rights and international law. We have tabled a legislative proposal to that effect in Parliament, and your party has also signed it. Financial institutions have a responsibility to respect human rights. I therefore ask you to take steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u55	Question No 55021634C by Mr Parent is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u56	Madam President, I refer to my question as tabled in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u57	Mr Vermeersch, the government does not intend to remove the exemption. The pros and cons of a possible abolition can only be considered after a thorough study of all the data and consultation with the sector. Of course, this cannot be done in the context of an oral parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u58	Minister, your answer reassures us somewhat. You're wiping the rumors off the table. It is of course less reassuring that these rumours continue to pop up. Every time there is a budget discussion, the tax on interest in the savings book pops up. I also asked you to give concrete guarantees to savers that the tax advantage and the minimum interest rate will remain. However, you do not do that in your answer. You do not give any guarantees, which means that there is a risk that this measure will continue to appear in budgetary negotiations. So we will certainly follow that up, because we are still concerned about that. We hope that the current government will give clear guarantees that the tax advantage and the minimum interest rate will remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u59	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u60	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, an extension of the increased rates of this year's tax relief for donations was on the government table, but no consensus was found in the government. Moreover, I do not think it is appropriate to extend the measure by 2021. This would be very late in the current revenue year, which would mean that many organisations would no longer have the chance to organise and offer special recruitment activities. As a result, the increase in the percentage could generate any higher donations only for a limited part of the year. On the other hand, of course, the retroactive effect would ensure that those who have already made donations would benefit from a higher advantage. That goes against the objective of the measure, of course, namely more donations. In addition, when analysing the impact of increasing the percentages, we found that we gave EUR 92 million additional tax relief by 2020 in order to ultimately receive EUR 80 million additional donations. This shows that the increase in the percentages is in fact not very efficient. Should an increase in the percentage still be decided, it would not achieve its objective, as it gives an advantage in particular to taxpayers who have already made a donation this year and not to taxpayers who would actually make more or higher donations by the announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u61	Of course, Minister, we regret that the tax advantage for gifts has not been extended. That is, of course, the thrust of the question. After all, many of the organizations that live from donations still have problems because of corona and that support in the back would have been welcome. It goes without saying that we are defending Flemish interests and not necessarily Walloon interests, but if I were to defend Walloon interests, an exemption would be useful for people who give gifts in response to the natural disaster that hit Wallonia. We therefore regret that this measure did not ultimately reach a consensus in your government, which nevertheless has a majority in Wallonia. We will continue to hammer on it. Perhaps there should be another regime in the future, as in our neighbouring countries. But that is a matter for further discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u62	Madam President, Minister, the monetary policy of the European Central Bank has ensured that banks pay very low and even negative interest rates. That interest rate policy has maintained our economy, but of course it also has a number of side effects. The covid crisis and the relance have not given credit institutions a whim. Profits are re-launching and billions of dividends are being announced. Despite these developments, banks still charge negative interest rates to local governments and educational institutions. That has some perverse consequences. For example, a school group has to pay negative interest on its resources when they exceed a certain threshold. This is the case when the sum of the resources of each individual school within the same group exceeds that threshold. There is no escape from that, as all schools within that group receive that donation at the same time. If the school group receives a total of EUR 10 million in operating resources, it must give to the banks a negative interest rate of EUR 0.5% 50 000. Are you aware of this practice and method of calculation of banks? How do you justify the fact that educational institutions see their operating resources provided by the public authorities shrink in this way, while facing major financial challenges? If you do not find this to be justified, what will you do about it? Are you aware of the fact that many local authorities are also confronted with similar practices? What action do you intend to take to achieve this? How do the revenues generated by the banks from charging negative interest relate to the combined profit recorded by the four major banks in the first half of 2021? Time estimates this net profit at 3.2 billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u63	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, a long-term low interest rate environment is, of course, a major challenge for the banks. The role that banks have played in helping to cope with the consequences of covidrecession also reminds us of the importance of a financially sound sector. As more and more bank investments generate very low to negative interest rates, credit institutions will necessarily also seek solutions to maintain their profitability. This search for return preferably takes the form of a sustainable solution, such as improving cost efficiency or alternative sources of income. In the long term, however, it is best to avoid dangerous risk-building positions in order to boost returns, as this would also jeopardise the financial health of our financial sector. It is no secret that banks have also chosen to apply negative interest rates to large deposits above a certain threshold in the search for alternative sources of income in an environment of negative interest rates. This has been mentioned several times in the media. The banking sector and credit institutions have been fairly transparent in this respect and, subject to the rules on the minimum remuneration to be applied to the regulated savings books, this is also in line with the rules. Each bank shall determine its own commercial policy in this respect. It is not, of course, excluded that the same type of deposit, depending on the institution in which it is placed, may or may not be charged a negative interest rate. We are aware of the fact that, in certain cases, educational institutions see their means of operation shrink in this way. I can only remind the institutions concerned that there is a great contractual freedom between them and their bankers, so that it can be useful to sit around the table with the credit institution to negotiate new terms. Another possibility is, of course, to change the bank, so that one can again count on an account where no negative interest is charged. For the Belgian banking sector, the revenues resulting from the application of negative interest rates to deposits from households, non-profit organisations, non-financial corporations and educational institutions amounted to EUR 86 million in the calendar year 2020 and EUR 79 million in the first six months of 2021. These amounts correspond respectively to 2% and 2.5 % of the net profit of the sector over these periods, which amounts to EUR 4.3 billion and EUR 3.2 billion respectively. The Belgian banks apply their negative interest rates mainly to the large deposits of other credit institutions and financial institutions, and hardly to the deposits of households.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I have already said on other occasions and I repeat here that banks also have a social and social role to play and that they have to accept their responsibilities. The announced profits show that the sector is not currently in a state of risk. I also know that it is a short turn to say that public money intended for education in this case is being ripped off by the banks to distribute to their shareholders, but it is still close. As you rightly say, banks are indeed private institutions with their own commercial policy, but I hope that you will consult with the sector to convince them that schools and local authorities should not be a milk cow to boost profits. We can expect the banks to deal with this in a different way than with a private company and to stop charging negative interest rates for these institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u65	Minister, for many years, the Bankruptcy Act has provided for the excusability of the unfortunate bankrupt when he or she was operating in a natural person. The law of 11 August 2017 strengthened this protection, on the one hand by providing for the pure and simple cancellation of the debts of the unfortunate bankrupt and on the other hand by expressly authorizing, immediately upon the making of the bankruptcy and even before the closure of the bankruptcy and any decision concerning the cancellation of debts, to initiate a new independent economic activity. This is what has been called the principle of fresh start or right to a new start. However, unlike companies that re-create after a bankruptcy, the natural person who wishes to start a new business will keep his VAT number. On the other hand, it is my responsibility that certain administrations, mainly VAT, do not respect this write-off of debts and continue to claim old debts from the bankrupt who started a new activity. Moreover, the VAT administration would go so far as to compensate for old and erased debts with repayments to the new entrepreneur. Not only would this be a practice contrary to articles XX.173 and XX.1974 of the Code of Economic Law, but even more so, it would be a practice which would cause new financial difficulties to persons legitimately attempting to revive economic activity. Mr Minister, do you confirm the failure of certain public administrations, including the VAT administration, to comply with the debt write-off and the fresh start? How do these administrations justify this non-compliance with the law? Have any instructions been or will be given to these administrations for better compliance with debt write-off and fresh start? Would it not be appropriate, in order to give natural persons in bankruptcy a real new start, to grant them a new VAT number when the person wishes to start a new activity after bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u66	Madam President, my administration confirms that it has given specific guidance on the right to a new start, from which any independent person can benefit as a result of bankruptcy. These directives provide that no recovery action may be taken for a tax debt that has been removed by the courts. Therefore, I cannot confirm your analysis and the non-compliance with the fresh start. During 2020, my administration received four complaints that were found to be unfounded. For 2021, only one complaint was registered, also unsubstantiated. As regards the possibility of granting a new business number to a natural person who wishes to start a new economic activity before the closure of his bankruptcy under the 2017 law, it is recalled that any person who starts an economic activity which confers on him the status of taxable person and who requires his identification must make a declaration thereof to the VAT Control Office competent for the place where he is established before the commencement of that activity. However, prior to the application for VAT identification, this person must register with the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE) in order to obtain a business number. After examination and validation of the VAT identification application, the VAT Control Office shall, as the VAT identification number, the business number which has been previously assigned by the ECB. My administration interviewed her, who informed her that only one business number could be granted to a natural person. This number may become dormant in the event of a cessation of activity, but is automatically reactivated when the person concerned is again engaged in an economic activity. The ECB is therefore formally opposed to the granting of more than one business number to a taxable individual. In view of the ECB's position, the route of activation of a new VAT identification number in the situation invoked has been abandoned by my administration. However, technical solutions have been found for FPS Finance applications in order to allow the filing and processing without interference, on the one hand, of the trustee's statements concerning the former bankrupt activity and, on the other hand, periodic declarations to the VAT of the fresh starter for its new activity. This makes it possible to draw a clear distinction in terms of VAT between the two activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u67	Minister, I thank you for your answer and for the clarification you have given me that reassures me of the instructions that are given to the administration in order to comply with the law. To be quite complete, I would like to point out that the distinction between the bankrupt's past and future debts begins before the write-off of debts and that there is no question of VAT, which is in bankruptcy, being set off against old VAT debts for which it has submitted a declaration of debt. The latter enters the bankrupt's competition situation and cannot be compensated. Finally, I understand that the issue of the possible allocation of a new VAT number does not fall within the competence of the VAT administration, but rather of the ECB. I must therefore turn to this administration to see if it is not possible to obtain a new VAT number since the problem remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u68	Mr Donné, your question was combined with Mrs Houtmeyers' question, which I do not see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u69	Madam President, that's right. Both questions have the same content. I have agreed with Mrs Houtmeyers that I will ask the question for both, because she also has agenda problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u70	That's not a problem. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u71	Madam President, I would like to refer to the question and the relevant title, as Mrs Houtmeyers put it, namely the tax on unpaid pints or, rather, non-existent pints. Unpaid pints are another problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u72	Madam President, Mr Donné, I must explain to my wife the principle that there are also non-existent pints to go to a café. Mr Donné, in its judgment in the FedCaf case, the Council of State has only cancelled the flat-rate VAT scheme for bar owners for the year 2020 in terms of form. The Council of State did not express any opinion on the content of the flat-rate scheme itself. Therefore, the argument put forward by FedCaf concerning the number of glasses that can be tapped from a barrel of beer was not examined. FedCaf's claim that it was right on that point from the Council of State is therefore wrong. The provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action relating to VAT provide that the business groups wishing to be consulted for the establishment of the flat-rate basis of assessment shall, before 1 February each year, provide the administration with the detailed and quantified elements necessary for the establishment of those flat-rate bases. In accordance with that provision, the co-operation between the administration and the interested business groups which have also followed the consultation procedure has been established for the café holders for 2020. I would like to mention that FedCaf has never previously applied to my administration with regard to the flat-rate basis of assessment for the café holders, while the procedure to be followed was clearly explained at the meeting that took place in 2016 with the then Minister of Finance, Mr Van Overtveldt. A flat rate shall also include a set of elements which constitute an average for the taxable persons using it. It is therefore not correct to criticize one element of the forfait, while other elements may be more advantageous. Moreover, the flat-rate scheme is an optional scheme. Where the flat-rate scheme as a whole is unfavourable, the VAT taxpayer can of course always opt for the normal scheme. It goes without saying that, following the judgment of the Council of State, I contacted my administration, which mistakenly regarded the scheme as an administrative provision. Since the flat-rate VAT scheme for the café holders for the year 2020 was established in accordance with the rules in force and with the agreement of the business groups that have followed the consultation procedure, I will sign it without any substantive changes and then, having regard to its regulatory nature, have it submitted to the Legislative Section of the Council of State. The formal conditions will therefore be respected by this method.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u74	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u75	Madam President, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, a whole series of action plans and measures are currently being implemented to achieve the objectives and objectives set. As explained earlier in committee this week, in accordance with the government agreement in its multiannual budget, the government has set a collective budgetary objective for the fight against fraud and has chosen not to allocate it within specific sectors of income and expenditure. The action plan to combat tax and social fraud is part of this. It does not confine itself to purely fiscal or social measures, but includes projects aimed at increasing and optimising the fight against fraud in general. This reflects the budgetary objectives on the basis of a framework policy, in which, among other things, the updated College for the fight against tax and social fraud as well as SIOD plays a central role. Within this route, measures are also taken which are not included in the budget certificates, but which support the budgetary objective. This could include the law on various financial provisions on the fight against fraud of 2 June 2021. A first set of decisions on e-invoicing, digitalisation of invoices and the VAT chain was also taken to narrow the VAT gap between what the government should receive and what the government really intuitives. In this way, we increase the tax revenue, without touching the tax itself. Efforts are being continued. The international colloquium, as indicated this week, was scheduled for 7 December, but will be postponed to the beginning of next year. However, the study on the IMF text, which will form the basis for a number of measures, maintains its timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u77	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u78	Mr Minister, the reason why we continue to ask these questions is because the tax reform, with the income from social and fiscal fraud in particular, is the many millions and billions that this government is counting on, is a bit of the yeti or the Loch Ness monster of the government. Everyone in the majority is talking about this, but no one has seen any concrete figures. Parliament has not yet seen any concrete calculations showing how you will get those many hundreds of millions of euros, even billions in 2024. That is why we continue to follow that and ask questions about it. The figures are crucial to check whether the government's plans are in line with what is being told here and with its actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u79	The system of deductions from the farm levy is being adjusted and would already raise EUR 75 million in 2022 and EUR 100 million for both 2023 and 2024. This would further increase the burden on labour. I would like more clarification on this new measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u80	Madam President, in the context of the expenditure analyses - the spending reviews, in the English word - decided by the government, you commissioned a study on the exemptions from professional prepayments, a tax niche that had already been scratched by a report by the Court of Auditors. This study was finally published under the title Spending review: Exemption of transfer of without payroll tax.The findings of this study are worrying for more than one reason. One can see that the amount of this tax niche has increased enormously to become huge: it has increased from 198 million euros in 2005 to 3.6 billion euros in 2021 and is expected to reach 4.5 billion euros in 2026. The study notes a high level of inequality between enterprises, since the tenth decile of companies accounts for as much as 97% of the tax year, with the one hundredth decile concentrating 84% of the manna alone. The study regrets that the objectives of these discount exemptions are not clearly defined, do not contain explicit measurable indicators and are implicitly time-limited. Another negative point is that aberrant situations are noted, which could lead to the suspicion of large-scale fraud, as the Court of Auditors had mentioned in its own report. As regards the impact of the main categories of exemptions (such as research and development, night work and shiftwork), the study notes either that the evidence of a positive impact of the exemptions is limited or that the impact is low. In the light of these negative assessments, what fate are you going to reserve for professional discount exemptions? Will you remove these niches or some of them? If so, which ones? Are you going to reduce their scale? To what extent? How long? For what amounts? Or will you simply maintain this fiscal niche, or even extend it, as you have already done in the context of the 2021 budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u81	Madam President, I refer to the question as tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u82	Madam President, in the spending review to which Mr. Van Hees referred, the remark was made that the exemptions for the Belgian State are increasing exponentially. My administration also notes that the various systems of exemption from the transfer of withholding tax are actually used by some taxpayers. As a result of the presentation of my policy statement, I have already mentioned as an example that certain employers encourage workers to engage in fiscal voluntariate. That is to say, they ask their employees to voluntarily provide for an increase in the amount of withholding tax, thus increasing artificially the amount of exemption from the transfer of withholding tax and thus the benefit to the employer, without affecting the employee. Finance and Social Affairs Ministers are responsible for developing a shift tax that will increase the purchasing power of low and medium wage earners and reduce the promotion trap. This measure will be partially funded through a reform of various occupational discount payment exemptions. The first is to eliminate abuses and reduce the excesses of the system without affecting the objectives originally intended by the legislator. These measures are not therefore intended to take the employers who normally use this system or to increase the burden on labour. Nor is it my intention to increase the administrative burden disproportionately. The aim of the additional administrative burden, if any, is to increase legal certainty for companies using this measure and to ensure better monitoring of public expenditure. Of course, it is not my intention in this reform to touch on the possibility for companies to seek prior advice. However, the framework in which this is to be done still needs to be laid down. Nevertheless, it is still too early to address in detail the specific measures of this reform. It will be submitted to the Council of Ministers before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have indeed announced on Monday that there will be more detail about excesses in Parliament at another time. I would like to make two more points. First of all, improper use is a vague term. You refer to fiscal voluntariates, but we hear from companies that all kinds of things were questioned when checks were carried out which were accepted in the past. This does not improve legal certainty and clarity. I hope that we will be able to have a debate on this very soon in Parliament. Secondly, the closure of paid gates remains an increase in charges if it is not integrated into a global reform which also involves a reduction of charges. We would prefer this exercise to take place within the framework of a global reform rather than as a separate exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u84	Minister, I want to say, "All for this." For more than a year, you have been announcing these spending reviews on professional discount exemptions. But in the end, you are simply quoting this report, which was ordered and which had to be very expensive. Finally, you just give us an example of abuse, tax volunteering. And then you say we're not gonna touch the system. None of the foundations of this system are being called into question. We're just going to fix some small details. That's very clear. This is already in the EUR 75 million mini-tax shift – even though we know that there are differences in this matter within the government – when we are talking about a fiscal niche of EUR 3.6 billion for the year 2021, a niche which, moreover, is still on the rise. These 75 million euros are a drop in the ocean. Obviously, you are going to maintain this system, which is, in fact, a theft of workers' taxes. Indeed, the boss takes the workers' occupational discount to pay it back to the tax, but keeps a big part for himself. This is accompanied by many negative effects such as night work, which the measure promotes, while it is bad for the health of workers. I will not be longer, Madam President, because I do not want to go beyond the deadline, but I am obviously very disappointed. That's all for it!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-11-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic628x.u85	Minister, there has been an increase in the number of discussions recently during checks on the transfer of the R &amp; D levy. Moreover, there is concern not only about us, Members of Parliament, but also about many companies, about maintaining the measure in the light of the preliminary draft reform of the exemption for the transfer of the R &amp; D tax. If a reform is to take place, four rules of thumb must be borne in mind. Firstly, there can be no significant increase in the administrative burden for us. Secondly, prior opinions must remain absolutely possible. Thirdly, there should not be a maximum amount to be recovered per investigator. Fourthly, any reform should never result in some of the companies moving their research and development activities abroad, which will further reduce the employment rate, which your government is high on, in this country and make the investment climate less attractive. Do you want to take those four rules of thumb into account?
