ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u1	Minister, some questions have already been asked in the committee of 8 June 2021 about social fraud in package companies. You told us at the time that you asked the social partners in the National Labour Council to evaluate the law on employment relations and see how the law could be improved. You expect these opinions from the social partners at the end of September, beginning of October. Meanwhile, the problem continues to develop. Despite their persecution of structural social fraud, undeclared work has been re-established and other infringements have been detected among parcel delivery companies. Last week checks were carried out at the GLS and PostNL depots which showed that half of the cases checked were not in order. The Labour Auditorate is now threatening a judicial seal on the depots if it continues to do so. That was the situation when I submitted my question. In view of the urgency of the matter, will you take additional measures pending the opinion of the social partners? Will you have additional checks carried out at the post and courier companies? Do you think that companies that are structuralally engaged in social fraud should be more severely sanctioned? Is an amendment of the Social Criminal Code in your view on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u2	Madam President, Minister, last February we learned that the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) was investigating subcontractors delivering parcels for PostNL in Belgium but who did not pay VAT or tax. Documents even revealed names of companies that had been declared bankrupt but continued to deliver packages for PostNL as subcontractors. In addition to these tax elements linked to the ISI, PostNL and its competitor GLS are now prosecuted for social fraud. Both companies were called together with a number of subcontractors. For the Labour Auditorate of Malines, a series of fraud indices show different problems in terms of the length of working days, health measures, the underpayment of staff and the risk of false self-employment. In June, a check carried out on the deposit of GLS in Puurs with its subcontractors revealed that almost half of these companies were again in breach of various aspects: work in the black, failure to present employment contracts, illegal employment and breach of the rules of unemployment. These companies are already being prosecuted for structural social fraud and new controls are again updating a whole series of infringements. In the words of the labour auditorate, "it's amazing that they continue to work this way". Minister, how is it possible that the companies in question continue to work in breach of the rules ostensibly, when they are already prosecuted for proven social fraud? What can be done to protect workers? How has such widespread social fraud developed? In a context where the parcel distribution sector is growing impressively, should we not ensure more thorough and systematic control of the new operators arriving on the market and those already there? Should we not increase the number of staff because, like you, I was reading in the press, that in Brussels, no investigation was carried out among the major sponsors by the labour auditorate for lack of investigators?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u3	Madam President, Minister, there is no point in sketching the situation, since Mr Anseeeuw and Mr Cornet have already done so in detail. I therefore confine myself to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u4	Are you going to carry out additional checks in the warehouses of the large parcel companies? Are there targeted checks on the conditions of employment of subcontractors? Is a seal and/or closure the only answer to these persistent violations of the big players? Are you going to take additional measures in the fight against social fraud in package companies? Several labour auditors also complain about the lack of researchers, which means that no further research can be carried out on the real clients. How can you deal with this problem, whether or not in cooperation with your colleague from the Justice Department? What is your position on circumventing the stricter Belgian labour legislation against the Dutch in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the problem has indeed already been outlined. There is a recurring fraud, despite the fact that a VAT carousel has already been discovered and they have been dragged before the labour court. New controls now show that undeclared work, illegal employment and the abuse of bogus self-employed workers are once again being identified. In addition to the questions that have already been asked about your further approach to the checks to stop social dumping, I also had a number of additional questions. When will the work audit centre become a seal and a closure of the depots? We must, of course, take care of the workers who have to work in very precarious conditions, but there are still workers with a normal contract of employment working in these depots. How are these protected? Can they fall back on temporary unemployment? Is their employer still obliged to pay compensation? Is there any cooperation with the traffic police in that respect? When bogus self-employed people start begging their vans for hours, this obviously has an impact on fatigue and on road safety. I think there is certainly a connection there. In addition to the questions that have already been asked by my colleagues, I would have liked an answer to these two additions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u6	Minister, I am not going to repeat what Mrs Cornet has just said. This will give a moment of respite for translators. But I have a supplementary question. In this context, have you ever had contact with GLS trade union organisations? What was the result? For the rest, these are the same questions. What are you going to do about this situation? How are you going to deal with the problem more comprehensively?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. With regard to the judicial investigations, only the prosecution can provide you with an answer and you must address the Minister of Justice for that purpose. So I can only give you generalities, some of which were already discussed at the committee meeting on 8 June. It should be noted that the existence of a judicial investigation does not suspend the activities of a company. Any wage corrections or abuses against the regulation of unemployment may be monitored by the inspection services following a judicial investigation, whether or not they are carried out by the judicial authorities. SIOD and the inspection services are aware of the problems of courier companies, some of which often rely on subcontractors, companies and self-employed persons who do not always respect social law. As stated earlier, a follow-up meeting with the transport sector was held in mid-March. There it was agreed to update the fair competition plan by September. There are discussions with the FPS Mobility to intensify cooperation between them. In the 2021 Action Plan, SIOD has programmed 900 controls in the transport sector, including courier services. The figures for the first quarter are available. 272 checks had already been carried out by the end of March. A total of 161 infringements were identified in 110 investigations. In 43 cases this was for an infringement of Dimona legislation. More statistical data from the inspection Monitoring of Social Laws on checks at courier companies I can present you in a table. The inspection has no information on the relationship between subcontractors and contractors in the courier companies. It only has data on individual employers and therefore has no idea of the number of subcontractors or the nature of their contracts between them. These contracts should not be passed on to the inspection. With regard to the additional, more thorough and systematic inspections, I can inform you that during the meeting of the Structural Concertation Committee on 18 June it was agreed with the President of the College of Auditors and all the social inspection services concerned that special attention would be given in the coming months to the issue of courier companies and that specific controls would be carried out within the framework of the borough cells. You also remember, of course, that I asked the NAR for an evaluation of the law of 25 August 2012 on the nature of employment relations. During the inspection of the Social Laws of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, two specialised managements deal with transport and transport controls, and possible social dumping in these sectors. Mrs Samyn, you seem to assume that Belgian labour legislation is stricter than that in the Netherlands, but this has to be looked at by law. Moreover, many labour rules are based on European directives. Moreover, a Dutch employer who comes to work in Belgium must comply with the Belgian wage and working conditions for the staff concerned, not the Dutch. If the Belgian wage is higher than the Dutch wage, the company must pay the Belgian wage. The same applies to certain collective agreements. If these Belgian conditions of pay and employment are not complied with, the Social Law Inspectorate may draw up a report which may give rise to criminal proceedings or an administrative fine. The Social Penal Code also provides for a specific sanction to combat social dumping. A new draft law amending the Social Penal Code aims to extend the penalties provided for in article 162 of the Social Penal Code and to provide for the most severe sanction against social dumping. The management of this case is in the hands of the Minister of Justice. My firm and my administration are working on this and it should be possible to achieve this in the fall. This study will examine how companies that commit structural social fraud can be punished more severely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u8	Minister, I would like to thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I have received a very clear answer to all my questions, and I must say that I am satisfied with that. I believe that we all agree that social fraud, especially in those sectors where it is very successful, and this is one of them, needs to be dealt with strictly. So I am very much looking forward to the new legislative initiatives you mentioned. I think I can leave it at that today, but this obviously needs to be followed up further, as it is seen that 40% of the checks in the first quarter contain infringements. Then the problem is almost invisible. If one has almost one chance of getting a bite at a check, it is a social fraud of an incredibly large size, given the number of vans driving around on our roads. In my view, therefore, it is indeed necessary that extra checks are carried out. I also hope that these additional checks will be sufficient, especially in view of the fact that this is a sector with a lot of staff working on our roads every day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. In the face of such a large scale of fraud and a variety of offences, there is a challenge for all services to work together. This is very important and we have already had the opportunity to discuss this collaboration between departments in committee. That's one of the leads. There are companies that reoffend and therefore raise the question of the harshness of the sanction. You say that you are going to think about tougher sanctions and I encourage you to do so because as long as the obstinate fraudsters have no real chance of being severely punished, stubbornness will persist and it is not good for anyone, certainly not for the workers. The penalty must be commensurate with the damage that companies cause. I wanted to stress the need for more control and you said that there would be controls in this sector. Thank you. It's very important. You don't have data at the subcontractor level, but it might be interesting. I'll read carefully the picture you'll send us. It may be interesting to know whether they are contractors or subcontractors. Finally, how do we protect workers? I am thinking, for example, of false independents. This reflection on the law that defines the employment relationship between a company and its employee is another avenue. Thank you for keeping a close eye on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The lockdown has given the e-commerce a firm push, but also the violations of social legislation got the wind in the back, leading to numerous violations. The figures you just quoted also clearly show this. I hope that this fraud will indeed be dealt with strictly. You can count on our support if any legislative initiative is taken. But I also hope that the number of checks will be increased. Since the percentage of of offenders in the checks carried out is so high, I think that only more controls can help to combat this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and detailed answers. In the meantime, it is not only in the case of a number of foreign parcel services that it appears that there is a turning point. Our data show that we also need to keep a close eye on bpost. Unfortunately, the company is having a hard time because of the troubles surrounding its CEO. It's not the staff's fault, it's understandable. We absolutely don't want the company to get into trouble. It is a service provider with a major social impact and a significant employment. We must respect the workers, many thousands of whom are working every day through weather and wind. They deserve more than our respect. But we must be able to fight with equal weapons in a hypercompetitive parcel market. The cost of bringing that package to our door is a race to the bottom, with all the social consequences of that. As a group, we are opposed to over-regulation, but if we look at what is going on in this sector, we will still have to limit the exploitation of some sub-contractors by postal companies. It is a sector which is an ideal place for many low-skilled people, a group that is usually more difficult to find in the labour market. But it must not turn out to be the exploitation of the parcel couriers, where the customer leaves everything at the door for a few lousy euros. Again, the rules of the game must be the same for everyone. We therefore expect decisive action from the relevant ministers in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. We all know, because of the case for the work audit and because there is still so much fraud in successive checks; now it is confirmed by the figures you have given us today. This clearly shows how big the fraud is in the parcel companies. I am of course pleased that cooperation is being carried out and that specific controls are being planned for the packing companies in the district cells. These are indeed people who work in very precarious statutes. It is about the protection of those workers, but also about road safety. If they are dead tired behind the wheel, it also has an impact on the road safety of all of us. I am also, of course, looking forward to the amendment of the employment relationship law. That's important. If we introduce stricter penalties into the employment relationship law, companies that are currently cheating are going to feel it real. We're really gonna be able to change that. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention not only to the subcontractors, but also to the workers who are currently working there. Those are actually the whistleblowers. They note that they are also affected by the race to the bottom with the subcontractors. They're pulling the alarm bell. But if the depots were to be closed, precisely because they have raised the alarm, I also think that we should give them the necessary protection and framework for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is more than disturbing that the administration cannot provide information on the subcontracting links. We need more transparency. I don't know what you can do at this level, but we can't go on in such a blur. You're going to think about different sanctions and we want to encourage you to be strong enough to push back those thug bosses who use inhuman work organisation methods. I shall return to the subject, but we must look back at the impact of the liberalisation of these sectors and its consequences on competition between workers. We also plead for a reflection to take over the delivery sector of parcels in the public service, which guarantees better working conditions and better service to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u14	Questions Nos 55018634C, 55018853C and 55018857C of Mr Hedebouw are obsolete since he is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u15	Madam President, I actually had a number of technical budgetary questions for the Secretary of State for the Budget. The question has been added to a number of questions from among others the PVDA, les extrêmes se touchent apparently. In the meantime, questions from MPs of the N-VA were also added. Minister, the wage bill of course deals with more than just wages. Article 14 provides that, among other things, the government may decide to moderate dividends and other incomes. Following the discussion on the Interprofessional Agreement (IPA), Article 14 suggested, inter alia, the possibility of introducing a dividend freeze and a freeze on the remuneration of CEOs. The PS and Vooruit in the government shamelessly copy a number of completely unrealistic proposals from the PVDA. That is why I wanted to ask a number of budgetary questions, but apparently they have been referred to you. What is the estimated annual budgetary impact of the proposed dividend freeze under Article 14 of the Wage Act? What is the estimated annual budgetary impact of the proposed freeze of CEOs' wages? Do you consider these measures to be budgetaryly desirable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u16	Madam President, Minister, on Tuesday, 15 June, in the Council of Ministers, you voted at first reading the Royal Decree on the wage freeze. We have already had an opportunity to discuss this. You know all the bad things I think. I told you, among other things, in plenary session. Today, at the station, there was a large warning gathering of union activists on this subject. They want to get out of the carcan of the 1996 law. First, I would like to congratulate them on this gathering and encourage them in mobilizing their activists to lead to a national demonstration in September. We support them, because with Raoul Hedebouw and our late comrade Marc Goblet, we have also introduced a bill here. Minister, in concrete terms, what percentage of workers will benefit from an increase in wages thanks to the interprofessional agreement 2021-2022? How do you respond to these workers who are forced to wage moderation when the dividends exploded during the crisis? Why didn't you act at that level? With regard to consumer cheques, what do you think about the fact that some traders refuse to receive these cheques, since they will have to return about 3.5% of the value of the cheque to the companies that issue them, like Sodexo? Moreover, basically, do you find it logical to prohibit the increase in gross wages to more than 0.4 %, with the losses that are known for social security, but to allow the granting of consumer cheques which are subject to reduced employer contributions and which part must be returned to private operators? At the June 17 plenary session, you announced that you were "at the side of those who want to amend the 96 law. Except that the political conditions for achieving this are not fulfilled." A little earlier, in a Social Affairs Committee on 25 May, you said that "we have to prepare for the next IPA today in order to give more flexibility". Even today, in the press, the president of Vooruit declared that he too wanted to amend the 1996 law. Can you tell us more? How do you respond to FGTB activists who were gathered this morning to oppose the 1996 law? If the PS and Vooruit agree with the position of the PTB to review this law, we obviously welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u17	It seems that the government is faced with at least the aftermath of the Ipa. At first it seemed as if not all trade unions would approve the ipa without a fight. Eventually this happened, although the support on the Walloon side is very small. There too, there is a clear Community fault. The ipa has a particularly inactivating character. That is why it does not accept the N-VA either. It pushes experienced workers out of the labour market far too quickly and makes it more difficult for young, especially short-term jobseekers to find a job. Of course, that was no problem for the Walloon trade unions. They didn't want to approve the ipa at first, because it didn't go far enough. Apart from that, there is now the important wage standard law. The government agreement makes it very clear that the wage standard law is not affected. There has been a lot to be done about that. We have already had several exchanges of views on this subject and put different points of view against each other. Now it appears that one of your government partners, namely Vooruit, says that the wage standard law must and must be changed, contrary to what is in your and their government agreement. The wage standard law is, of course, important to ensure that a number of jobs are not compromised. The first jobs that could fall victim to letting go of the wage standard are the jobs that need to be filled by the most vulnerable in our labour market. Therefore, it is important to adhere to the wage standard law. That's what the coalition agreement says. It is now clear that your government partner believes that wage standards and wage standards should be respected. Can you confirm clearly here that the wage standard law is not being violated so that different jobs in relation to our neighbouring countries would not be priced out of the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u18	Minister, the dossier has already been outlined here, but I would like to talk more about social dialogue. After all, we have seen an unprecedented spectacle here. It all seems to have worked out, but the difference in voting attitude between Flanders and Wallonia and the way in which the Ipa was finally achieved raises a lot of questions about social dialogue. In the last 12 years, apart from this time, there has only been one ipa with the signature of all trade unions underneath. To what extent do you still have confidence in the functioning of the social dialogue? In my opinion, in the present form, it really is out of date and does not seem to be sustainable anymore. Does the government have some kind of back-up for issues from the government agreement for which the social partners do not come up with workable solutions or agreements within a reasonable period of time? You were probably very happy when everything was still going to be okay. What else would have happened? In the past, there was an informal gentlemen's agreement whereby the social partners respected a number of rules governing the way in which social negotiations were conducted and strike commitments were made. They were tabled again the day after the agreement. In practice, this gentlemen's agreement has been dead and buried for many years. Would it not make sense to put social dialogue and collective action into a sustainable legal framework, with good agreements and rules of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u19	I have already had the opportunity to ask you a number of similar questions in plenary, but the differences remain and are still being raised by some. This agreement was clearly rejected on the Walloon side. The FGTB was downright opposed to the agreement with as much as 84 percent of the votes. The Flemish wing, the ABVV, voted with 72 % massively. Only by neutralizing a number of late votes could the approval be maintained. The so-called social dialogue, which you have been renowned for, can no longer come to agreements that are still supported by their own supporters. What are you going to do to keep the peace, especially now that all Walloon trade unions are rejecting this agreement, against the Flemish hegemony, and in view of the discussion about the counting of the ABVV-FGTB? Will you take additional initiatives to safeguard the early relance of political strikes? How will you reconcile clear regional differences and priorities? Are you going to give them responsibility at regional level? Do you still have confidence in this social dialogue, especially now that the representatives are no longer able to conclude agreements that are also supported by their supporters?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your various questions. It seems to me that I have already had the opportunity to respond to many of them. I'm not going to exegese the elements that I've already been able to provide. You know my position with respect to the 1996 Act and how it was amended in 2017. But it is true that in the negotiations for the formation of this government and this majority, there was no majority to amend the law and return to the elements that took place in 2017. It is a fact that we have unfortunately had to make and we will see, in the coming months and years, whether the trend is reversed. I am a fervent advocate of social consultation. I was yesterday. I still am today, and I will still be tomorrow. On the other hand, I think that in important moments such as the one we are experiencing today, which, I hope, emerged from one of the greatest crises in our contemporary history, the role of the social partners is essential, as it has been in the past, after various particularly difficult episodes. Of course, we are thinking of the two world wars where, after them, the social partners were involved as part of a new social pact. I once again believe that in the context we are experiencing today, it is particularly important, if not essential, that social dialogue can take place on specific issues but also on more general issues related to the organisation of society. That is why I will continue to defend social dialogue by being also aware that it has been through difficult times and that these moments are probably not entirely behind us and that it requires being able to put oil in the workings, to ensure that the concertation works at best. This is what I have been trying to do in recent weeks and months in compliance with the government agreement by ensuring that, within the framework of this agreement, negotiation can be given time and space; sometimes there are moments of pressure, especially when we have made the proposal to use Article 14 to limit or prohibit the payment of dividends. Article 14 has never been used so far, in any case in this way, but at some point a proposal has actually been tabled on the table. It has not been agreed by all the partners of the majority, but it has been well represented in our discussions. However, the precise impact of the use of Article 14, as filed, has not been quantified in detail. I am therefore unable to give you the precise details, Mr Vermeersch, but your question was addressed to my colleague Eva De Bleeker and she could have answered you more precisely. The social partners have been meeting for several days in the National Labour Council (NCT) where they have to confirm and, above all, specify several elements of the social agreement concluded on 8 June. They must also sign several CLCs, one of which allows the minimum wage to be increased in several phases: the first in April 2022, the second in April 2024 and the third in April 2026. The social partners must also give an opinion to the government on the framework of the agreement, which is expected shortly. As I have already said, the government has committed itself to implementing the agreement between the social partners as it has been concluded. After all, it is one and indivisible for us. Discussions are ongoing within the Government to determine the procedure for the regulatory implementation of this Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the elements that I could communicate to you from this in-between phase, since we still expect elements from the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u21	Minister, I note that my technical budget questions were forwarded to you to the Secretary of State for the Budget. Now you are actually replying that I must ask the Secretary of State for the Budget again. The cooperation in this government is certainly very good and the collegiality is also very good. I thank you for making the effort to try to refer to the Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u22	Thank you, Minister. First, like me, you hear different visions about how to treat workers. I must not translate into you what is behind the interventions made before us: to use the workers' struggle to further stir up the contradictions between the north and south of the country with a hidden agenda. I won't draw you! We will not fall into this trap. We would like to congratulate all the organized workers, whether at the FGTB, the CSC, the CGSLB, in the North, the South and the centre of the country, who have done everything they can to fight, because the struggle is hard! In social history, the struggle has not been won overnight. You are right to say that consultation has been difficult. Yes, it was difficult for you but it's not over. The workers made a call and fortunately, alongside Parliament, the street will continue to fight for rights and purchasing power worthy of this name for all those who were on the front line and who turned the country around.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u23	Minister, your answer is actually very clear. I asked you whether you could confirm here that the wage standard, as agreed in the government agreement, will not be released. I would remind you that you do not speak on your own behalf if we ask you questions. You are speaking on behalf of the government. What you're saying is, "What's not can come." In other words, the De Croo government has said in this case, in Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs, that even that part of the coalition agreement can and can be deleted. That is what has just happened here, which is one of the few things we have yet to hope for, namely that the jobs for the most vulnerable are not praised from the market in relation to our neighbouring countries. That piece is being released now. We have 4 million inactive people in this country. In Flanders, we have an incredible cut in the labour market. You want to increase the effectiveness rate in this country to 80%. In Brussels it is 62%, in Wallonia it is 64%. There's a lot of work to be done. To date, no active action has been taken by this government, just inactivating measures. With the wage standard, which has to protect a number of jobs in our country, and which is also in the government agreement, you have just made news. As the Croo government, you opened the door to remove that piece from the coalition agreement. That is very clear, very painful, but above all very sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u24	Madam President, when I hear Mr Moscufo, we are apparently in a war. Battre dance les rues, that's a war I don't quite understand. But what strikes me most is that both Mr Moscufo and you, Minister, are going back to the past. If one has to go back to the past to defend an organisation or an institution, it is my experience that that organisation no longer works today. It is very good that social dialogue has done very important things at many times. You will not hear me deny that, but that does not mean that today is going well or should not be updated. I think this is necessary. When I listen to your explanation of why you think this social dialogue is so important, I understand. You are, of course, in a government that almost does not agree on anything in terms of labour market policy. Then it's always easier to hide behind something. The social dialogue is ideal for this, because no one agrees with each other. So that's a pity. Here, too, there will be no renewal by this government, although I think it is much needed. We'll just keep muddying up. I think we're gonna have a hot fall. That is why I would advise you to take a good holiday, because you will need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u25	Minister, it is clear to us. The fundamental differences in the labour market in Flanders and Wallonia have made it completely impossible to conclude agreements at Belgian level. We therefore call for social dialogue to be brought to the regional level so that the specific measures that are being taken are coordinated with both regions and keep them both satisfied. I have also read some of your interviews in the past. I admit that I once hoped that the spirit of André Renard would have been a little more through the corridors of this Parliament and your cabinet, but unfortunately that does not seem to be true at the moment. But what isn't can still come.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u26	Mr Minister, on 30 March this year we had a debate on the abuses related to the relaxed system of temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure corona. At the time, we were mainly concerned about the most flagrant forms of abuse, but today I would like to talk to you about the flexibility with which temporary unemployment is used and the lack of control associated with it. The feedback from trade union delegations is alarming in this regard. It is up to us that some employers, particularly from highly profitable multinationals, would abuse the use of temporary corona unemployment. The aim is to save on wage costs and increase profits. The risk lies in increased flexibility, increased pressure on work and reduced resources for social security. We do not want to eliminate this coronary unemployment, but we want to avoid abuses, especially on the part of large companies that make profits. Minister, do you have any idea how much temporary corona unemployment is used by profitable companies? How do you view these abusive remedies? What controls do you perform at this level and with what results? The trade unions obviously do not question the system of temporary unemployment corona, but they regret the lack of stricter rules, especially for large profitable companies. What can you do at this level? Don't you think you have to include trade unions in the decision-making process for temporary unemployment of workers? Finally, temporary unemployment is extended until 30 September 2021. Why not have made adjustments to combat abuse more effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u27	Mrs Moscufo, the ONEM does not have any data on the profitability or non-profitability of companies and therefore cannot provide any figures on the use of the temporary "force majeure corona" unemployment by such companies. For all practical purposes, I would point out that the right to temporary unemployment benefits or the use of temporary unemployment is not from a regulatory point of view in any way conditional on the fact that a company is not profitable. Thus, while temporary unemployment is to some extent a way for an enterprise to remain profitable, it is more of a tool to preserve employment. If this is the philosophy behind the measure, it should be noted, however, that each company is always liable to be subject to control over the improper use of temporary unemployment corona. The same control may be initiated spontaneously by the ONEM or may be following a complaint from the worker, advised or not by his union. Temporary unemployment "force majeure corona" is an exceptional measure in place to support employers and workers. Its implementation was made possible only by easing the controls on entry, so as not to delay payments of unemployment benefits to workers. The measures taken in the context of the crisis are generally linked to each other. Thus, the use of a control card is an effective means of combating misuse and fraud, but it also introduces an element of complexity which can, for example, delay the payment of temporary unemployed people, something which we absolutely wanted to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u28	Mr Minister, I understand that this unemployment is not conditional on the profitability of companies and that the ONEM does not have any information on the profitability of companies. I think it's a problem. You say that abuse can only be detected if there are more controls. So I encourage you to do more! For this temporary unemployment corona, unlike traditional economic unemployment, workers' representatives have nothing to say. It would be worth considering incorporating into legislation the fact that trade union delegations could have a say in the matter. I think they are the first to know whether this unemployment will be misused or not. In addition, in the possibility of prolonging this unemployment, you have not assimilated these days of temporary unemployment into the calculation for workers' paid leave entitlements. I will come back to this on another issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u29	Mrs Moscufo, my services are of course aware of the restructuring within ComScope. The figures given through the media have been confirmed. As you know, the company has begun the mandatory phase of information and consultation. The restructuring phase can only take place after this information and consultation process, if it is necessary to do so. As you also know, it is always possible to call on a social mediator in this case. My services, in any case the services of the Employment FPS, are of course at the disposal of the stakeholders to intervene in case of need. To date and to the best of my knowledge, we have not received a request for a meeting. That is not why we are not following this issue closely in my office. As I have already had the opportunity to tell you, this type of case is not beyond our scrutiny, and we are attentive both to the inherent particularities and to the general lessons we can learn from it. I repeat that I do not intend to remain a passive spectator. I intend to make a number of proposals and guidelines in a few months' time. Again, I am listening to your suggestions and I am sure that the social partners and the representatives of the various parties will be able to offer us different elements. The social and democratic consensus, we all hope, will lead to more efficient protection of employment and jobs. As far as public aid is concerned, in this case it is essentially a regional competence, I would like to thank you for sending your request to the competent authorities. Finally, with regard to the ban on paying dividends, as you know, we have linked the benefit of a series of support measures to this ban, as well as to the prohibition on increasing the remuneration of company managers or members of the board of directors in the context of measures to support the coronavirus crisis. It is clear that for future support measures that are under consideration within the government, the same will apply. I think it is absolutely essential to be able to make public aid conditional on the fulfilment of a series of conditions, in particular the fact that we do not increase, when we receive aid and support such as these, the remuneration of directors or shareholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u30	Minister, thank you. We will obviously join you on this condition of access to these public aids. We will not fail to relay this to our colleagues in the Walloon Region. It is unfortunate, but it becomes almost a routine for us to have to ask the same questions each time when workers are faced with such dismissals. We really need to think structurally about how to proceed. You were asking if we had any proposals for you. We have a pretty simple one. You had yourself, before you were in the government, put forward a bill to really very strict condition the possibility of employers dismissing massively. We advise you to bring out this proposal and possibly co-sign it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u31	Joined Questions Nos. 55018312C by Mr. Gaby Colebunders and 55018313C by Ms. Nadia Moscufo are transformed into written questions as well as Joined Questions Nos. 55018555C by Mr. Gaby Colebunders and 55019201C by Ms. Nadia Moscufo.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u32	As Minister of Labour, I am of course aware of the impact on the well-being of the workplace that can be achieved by working relationships between managers and workers. A 2019 SPF Emploi research, conducted before the crisis of the covid-19, highlighted the impact of the management style and drew three important conclusions. First, the management styles practiced are more activity-oriented than individuals, individuals and groups. Initial management training appears to be focused mainly on the "activity" dimension and the most people-oriented management styles produce the most positive effects on well-being at work. There is therefore a need and a demand for managers to follow continuous training oriented towards the accompaniment of the people and the facilitation of the teams. But it is true that telework has increased the difficulty of managers in accompaniment to their team from a distance. Consequently, the SPF Emploi developed in March 2021 a topic specific to telework on its knowledge site (www.beswic.be), a section devoted to remote management. It builds on this research and provides some recommendations. All relevant information can be found on the Employment FPS website. I'll give you the links because it's a little tedious to spell. In 2019, the SPF Emploi also developed a free e-learning of five twenty-minute modules, which allows an employer to learn, in a user-friendly way, about the main principles of the legislation on well-being at work. Risk analysis, psychosocial risk prevention, musculoskeletal disorders, safety, health and other factors. All relevant information can also be found on the Employment FPS website. Again, I'll give you the internet link. Be sure that I really want, during this Parliament, to pay particular attention to the psychosocial risks that arise in the context of work. I know this is a shared concern, but I want to find solutions to prevent it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is true that companies have had a role to play in the fight against the pandemic by imposing social distancing. But I also think it is their role today to ensure the mental health of their collaborators. I know you're paying attention to it. I also think that after more than a year of pandemic, companies are now in a position to take stock. While many of them are eager to see their employees return to work five days a week, this situation still seems to be part of the past. Indeed, there seems to be a consensus in favour of a hybrid model, which would alternate work at home and in the office. I also believe that this model requires upstream preparation, which takes first and foremost into account the health conservation and well-being of workers. As you said, the SPF Emploi set up specific themes in March 2021 and companies must be trained to identify potential sources of ill-being of their employees in the new work organisation that will be imposed soon by telework. I know you're paying particular attention to psychosocial risks. I will remain attentive to this issue as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u34	Question No 55018871C by Mr Anseew is postponed. I don't see Mr. Ducrame, so his question number 55018953C is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u35	Minister, three weeks ago, the newspapers and social media drew attention to a social fund set up at Sabena by Sabena workers who were members of a trade union more than twenty years ago. The fund was financed by the contributions of those employees. The fund was managed by the three trade unions, ACLVB, ACV and ABBV. Before that, they had set up an actual association. Trade unions often do not include non-profit organisations or legal personality. After the succession of this silent association has been neglected for many years, it now appears that the money, EUR 1.8 million, which actually belongs to the employees, is still in the account and has not been paid out. I have pointed this out a few times in recent years, but there is still little or no reaction from these unions. What pressure will you put on the trade unions and the curator to bring this matter to a rapid conclusion? Do you continue to support the idea of not imposing legal personality on trade unions, thereby giving them unlimited impunity and leaving the workers concerned in the cold? Are you interested in the idea that those concerned should receive the legally foreseen negligence interest on the amount they should initially receive?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u36	Madam President, the fund is managed by Sabena as a public body. It is therefore not a fund for the security of life, as provided for in the 1958 Act. Such a fund is set up on the free initiative of the social partners within an industry to carry out tasks of social benefit. As Minister of Work, I am responsible for the financial monitoring of these funds. However, as has already been said, this is a budget which Sabena has as an autonomous public body and which, among other things, serves to pay the trade union contributions. Your question is therefore better put to the Minister for Public Enterprises. Furthermore, your question about legal personality for trade unions does not seem relevant in this context. In any case, it is a general misconception that the trade unions would find themselves in a impunity situation. If the union as a de facto association commits an error in civil law or commits a criminal offence, it may be subpoenaed through the persons in charge of the day-to-day administration. In this way, this part of the settlement of the Sabenafaillissement was done by the curator, although the account heading does not belong to the bankruptcy estate. In the meantime, at the request of ex-workers, work is being carried out on the abolition of the fund and the redistribution of resources. This is done with the necessary legal and fiscal caution. The process should be completed in the autumn. The trade unions have confirmed that a working group has been set up for several months and has now met several times. After obtaining the necessary opinions, the working party will hopefully soon decide on the allocation of resources. The receiver has undertaken to provide the necessary administrative support for its implementation once the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u37	Of course, Minister, it is true that it is not the first task of a curator to solve this problem. He can only offer some help to the administration and has also announced several times that he wants to do so effectively. However, this is primarily the responsibility of the trade unions. Contrary to what you say, it is indeed a problem that these trade unions, and also this fund, are actual associations. The ex-workers concerned, who ask for their money to be spent twenty years after the bankruptcy, about 800 to 1,000 euros per person, have taken up a lawyer who is now conflicting with the fact that it is a de facto association. In particular, three people, represented by the three traditional trade unions, two of whom no longer work for these trade unions. It's a legal gag, and of course he can't subpoena them. The only way they have left now is to increase social pressure via media and social media, to finally get back the money they paid more than 20 years ago. So I hope that after 20 years of waiting these people will finally get their money back from the union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u38	Questions Nos 55019031C and 55019072C by Ms Nathalie Muylle are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u39	As you know, from the start of my term of office, I made sure to extend the birth leave. Since 1 January 2021, the worker has been granted a leave of 15 days on the occasion of the birth of his child. This right will be increased to 20 days on January 1, 2023. The Government Agreement provides for the reform of parental leave schemes to allow for a more balanced distribution between men and women. The question of aligning birth leave with maternity leave should be subject to social consultation. It is indeed important to strike an appropriate balance between the aspects relating to the protection of mother's health and safety and the aspects relating to the reconciliation between private and professional life.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u40	I thank the minister. I will, of course, sign this proposal that I had put forward before the creation of this government. I therefore intend to highlight this major step forward in extending paternity leave. But we know that today there is still an imbalance between the family responsibilities assumed by mothers and fathers. It is true that the pandemic has increased this gap by increasing the mental burden borne by women. It is also true that a great step forward was taken by extending the days off for parents and co-parents. I am confident that this first initiative will open up reflection and debate for greater gender equality. I know that you will be particularly sensitive and attentive, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u41	Mr Minister, following a question for a preliminary ruling, the Constitutional Court has stated that those who work for two years with successive fixed-term contracts should be regarded as having an indefinite contract. There is a difference now, since successive fixed-term contracts may last up to three years, after which they are considered to be open-ended contracts, while in the case of replacement contracts they may last up to two years. The Constitutional Court does not consider it reasonable for the guarantee of the permanent relationship to be filled in in a different way. This is a violation of the principle of equality and non-discrimination. The Constitutional Court has therefore instructed the legislator to put an end to this unconstitutionality and to amend the employment contract law. What action will you take on the ruling of the Constitutional Court? In what sense will you amend the employment contract law?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u42	Colleagues, this trial was closely followed by my cabinet, along with the administration. It is clear that we will do what is necessary to bring legislation into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court. An analysis has already been requested of the FOD WASO, on the basis of which a concrete text of amendment will be drawn up which can be submitted to the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think this is an important step forward. Indeed, in some companies it is a business model to work with temporary contracts each time and offer employees a replacement contract, which sometimes leaves them in uncertainty for many years. This ruling of the Constitutional Court can provide a solution. I look forward to the text that you will submit to the social partners after consulting them. You can count on our group to amend the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u44	Minister, following the ruling of the Constitutional Court will be an important step. I can only rejoice at the fact that we will be able to offer these people greater security and ensure that they are given the protection they are entitled to. That is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u45	If women wish to take parental leave after maternity leave or later, they must take into account the seniority condition of one year with the same employer. We received a message from a pregnant woman who, at the start of parental leave, will have acquired only 10.5 months of seniority with her employer. However, her employer does not raise any problems and wants to allow parental leave. However, the RVA refuses to approve the application because of the seniority condition of one year. The seniority condition seems to me to be mainly there so that employers do not have to seek replacement soon after recruitment. But when an employer agrees to it, it feels unfair and perhaps even a little absurd. The government agreement states that the various leave systems together with the social partners will be optimised, simplified and harmonised. Is it true that there can be no deviation from the seniority condition in any case? Do you agree that if an employer himself agrees to parental leave despite the unfulfilled seniority condition, the RVA should be able to approve it? More fundamentally, in the exercise of optimising leave schemes, can not only the seniority condition for parental leave but also the 24-month time credit for caring for a child be reviewed critically? As a result of these seniority conditions, the right to time credit and thematic leave are reserved for middle class two-earners with quality jobs, while we should ensure that these systems are accessible to every parent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u46	Indeed, some forms of career break can only be achieved if the employee has a certain seniority. Such conditions are imposed not only to avoid problems associated with the organisation of work but also to encourage new workers to integrate directly and fully into their new working environment. In certain cases, the regulation imposes a seniority condition with the possibility for the parties to shorten the period concerned. This is the case, for example, for runways regulated by collective agreement No. 103. In other cases, the rules provide for a seniority condition without specifying the possibility for the parties to agree on a more flexible arrangement. There can therefore be no deviation from the condition. This is the case, for example, for parental leave applicable in the private sector. The Royal Decree of 29 October 1997 provides that the employee must have been connected by a contract of employment for 12 months with an employer within the last 15 months before the written notification. This condition is fully in line with European rules on parental leave and its wording allows temporary workers to meet the relevant conditions if they are employed by different users through the same agency under successive temporary contracts. Whether an adjustment of the seniority condition is appropriate should be decided in the first instance by the social partners. They will be given the opportunity to do so in the context of work on the transposition of the Work-Life Balance Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u47	Minister, you said that this is not just about a new work organisation, but also about the fact that a new employee can subscribe too fully to the new job. That is all well and good, but if it really happens with the employer's permission, I suppose the employer doesn't really see any problem in it and is convinced that the person concerned can fully subscribe to the new job. It is good to know that in some regimes the terms of seniority can be more flexible, as with the runways. If the employer and the employee come to an agreement, there is evidently room for deviation. Our group is of the opinion that the rules should be reviewed in the event of the employer's agreement. We hope that the issue will be a subject of discussion for the social partners when they soon consider the transposition of the European directive. Even if the regulation is in conformity with the directive, it does not mean that we cannot do better than what Europe is asking us to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u48	I refer to my question. I am curious to hear the Minister's answer, even though I have already received some information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u49	Madam President, as a result of the corona crisis, the overall assessment of the different forms of contract in our labour market has not yet been possible. Priority was given to measures to mitigate the social and economic impact of the corona crisis, especially in relation to vulnerable groups in the labour market. Following the corona crisis, an interdepartmental working group on Social Impact COVID-19 crisis was set up. On 17 April 2021, that working group issued a thematic report which is now being examined by the Vulnerable Groups Task Force. The findings of the Task Force will be an important input for the overall evaluation of the different forms of contract in our labour market. In any event, given the scale and impact of the exercise, it is essential that this evaluation be carried out once the corona crisis is fully under control, and in close cooperation with the social partners, so that they are given the necessary time to pay sufficient attention to it. The social partners in the NAR started discussions on their own initiative on the successive day-to-day contracts for temporary agency work. The talks are still ongoing. I've already informed the social partners that it's an important file for me. In the absence of concrete results, I will not hesitate to make it clear to the social partners that, in the absence of a proposal from them, I will take the initiative myself. With regard to the modernisation of the law on employment relations and the fight against bogus self-employment, I did indeed send an official request for advice to the NAR in April. I await the opinion of the social partners in the NAR on the dossier. A similar request has also been made to the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs (HRZKMO) and the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-employed Persons (ABC). I expect the various opinions by the beginning of October. They will be valuable to our deliberations on greater legal certainty, better working conditions and social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your very specific answers to all my questions. I am pleased that the thematic report of the Interdepartmental Working Group on Social Impact COVID-19 crisis will provide an important input to the evaluation. I think that is logical and quite right, because the corona crisis has greatly aggravated the existing differences. The total loss of income was only a certain proportion of the population, which often had to work in difficult sectors with precarious contracts. I am also looking forward to the results of the NAR consultation, both on the day-to-day contracts and on the modernisation of the employment relationship law, as well as of course the advice of HRZKMO and the ABC. When I hear all this, it will be a very busy summer for the social partners and we will also have a lot of work in the autumn. I think it will be a very interesting period after the summer, where very important things can be addressed. A lot is expected and it will be busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u51	Mrs Moscufo, your question is with you earlier in the debate on the social agreement and the interprofessional agreement. I am not going to repeat what I have already said in relation to the 1996 Act, in relation to the wage standard, and the fact that as a member of a government and as every citizen, I must respect the law. Nevertheless, like you, I can make every effort to try to amend this law. I am not going to go back to the question of the political context of power relations, but of course you know my position and what I am campaigning for. As far as the bonuses of some leaders are concerned, more specifically, I think that we need to be consistent. I have already mentioned this earlier by pointing out the dividends or increases in remuneration granted to certain managers in companies which have in the past received public aid. You know that I have fought for the support measures to mention a ban, for companies that benefit from these public supports, on paying dividends to shareholders and increasing the remuneration of management teams or directors. I think it is an element of coherence but also of fairness and justice. That is why I did so as part of the support measures. I have also tried to do so under the 1996 Act on the basis of Article 14 which we referred to earlier. As I said a few moments ago, there was no consensus in the government to move further along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u52	Mr Minister, it is true that we have already talked about this. However, I think that in the political debate we must systematically support this point, especially when we hear some people's theses as soon as we talk about wage increases: "Ouch, where are we going to get the money?" It looks like entrepreneurs are going to go bankrupt because they have to raise the wages of their workers. The concrete figures need to be clarified: some financial managers received $9 million in bonuses; Agfa-Gevaert's CEO granted himself a bonus of 3.8 million euros. That's three times as much as his regular annual salary. There is money in companies and we must be able to put a finger on it if the social reality is to be taken into account in this committee. I will come back regularly to ask you questions on these topics. The debate of ideas is already a social struggle.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u53	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the latest figures from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, which again received 9% more complaints in 2020 on grounds of gender discrimination than in 2019. Most of these notifications, i.e. 40%, relate to work. It is also striking that the number of cases of sexual harassment is increasing, despite the fact that a lot has been teleworking. We would think that there is less sexual harassment because there is less physical contact, but that is not the case at all: the number of sexual harassment reports increases by 17% and the number of reports of sexual harassment at work increases by 13%. I know that there is a whole arsenal of legal means to combat such cases. Despite this arsenal, we see little improvement, at least in certain sectors. The figures show that the increase in notifications is not general, but that some sectors are more sensitive to them than others. I think that is important, because such forms of sexual harassment also affect health. One must be able to feel safe at work, but that is not possible for those who are constantly under pressure. Moreover, there are many thresholds for the lodging of a complaint. The Institute's survey indicates that 83% of the victims do not talk about it, either with colleagues, or with executives, and take the blame. For all these reasons, I would like to ask you what happens to those figures. Minister, the figures have been rising for several years in a row. Are these figures discussed with the social partners? Is there any thought of a plan? In the Federal Gender mainstreaming plan, you said that you want to focus on improving the well-being of employees. Can these figures also be taken into account in this context? During the corona pandemic, the numbers did not improve. Since there appears to be a permanent problem, can there perhaps be a framework for telework regarding sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u54	The Institute for Equality between Women and Men found that the number of complaints about gender discrimination increased by 2020. In order to actively combat discrimination at work, I have launched a reform of the discrimination test. I also asked the National Labour Council for advice on the transposition of the directive on the balance of work and private life. A better balance between work and private life for all workers is essential for equality between women and men. With regard to combating the pay gap, I follow closely the work on the proposal for a directive on pay transparency. In addition, the current legislative framework on well-being at work has been extended and offers opportunities to address sexual harassment in a work context. The specific rules on psychosocial risks also apply without prejudice to workers working telework, including risk analysis and the means of action for workers. In addition, I am working with Mrs Schlitz to improve the rules on the protection of victims and witnesses against reprisals. We are continuing to work on the adoption of the law for the adoption of Convention No. Debates of the European The FPS WASO has drawn up the various parts of the preliminary draft law, including the explanatory memorandum. Before the file can be transferred to the FPS Foreign Affairs Office, the advice of the Finance Inspectors of the various FPS involved must first be sought. We're still waiting for the advice of the Treasury Inspector at the FPS Justice Department. The positive advice of the Treasury Inspector at the FOD WASO has already arrived. The next step is to request the approval of the Secretary of State for the Budget. Once this process is completed, the file will be forwarded to the Foreign Office. The representatives of the Länder will therefore be informed and will receive a copy of the explanatory memorandum, so that they can obtain Treaty No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u55	Thank you for your answer, Minister. There is a very legal arsenal and we know what additional initiatives you are taking to implement, on the one hand, to combat discrimination through practical tests, on the other hand, to bring a better balance between work and private life, so that more women can get to work. That's important, too. When there is more diversity at work there is also less intimidation, according to the figures of the institute. The ILO Convention No. 190 is very important because it offers additional tools. If we implement that, we can still strengthen the legislation a little bit. I had already asked Mrs Wilmès a question on this, and she referred me to you. Now I know very well what the situation is. Flanders has already ratified it. We should be able to make progress in this area. In the meantime, that treaty has already entered into force. We must be able to continue to play our leading role in this. Above all, it will require a change of attitude. Everyone must be aware of the impact such a form of intimidation can have on colleagues and employees. If everyone pays attention to this and we can convince people that they are not the culprits, but that it is the intimidation, if we can also convince them to press charges, then we can finally get rid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u56	Thank you for the very concrete state of implementation of ILO Convention No 190. I would like to join Mrs Vanrobaeys in saying that we can add a little bit more to that. I'm sure you'll be able to speed that up now. You listed some very important points: 36 % of notifications in the domain work is about pregnancy, motherhood or a child's wish. It's making me so angry. At the moment, in the 21st century, these are still issues where women encounter thresholds and sheer discrimination. Unfortunately, it remains all hands on deck to fight that. That is a fundamental injustice that we cannot minimize at all. I'm still amazed that this is still living so hard. It is up to us, the legislator, to ensure that steps forward are accompanied by good policies. It is valuable that you refer to the advice of the NAR around the better work-life balance. That is also extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u57	Mr Minister, I have submitted an interview and have a motion forwarded to the committee secretariat. The posting of European workers goes back to the European Directive 96/71/EC. It was amended in 2018 by the European Directive 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018. The basis is always the free movement of workers, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, enshrined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. From the outset, there was concern that there should be a level playing field and that workers' rights should be respected. The adaptation after 20 years of the 1996 directive was mainly due to concerns about respect for fair competition between companies and the safeguarding of workers' social rights. These are the points in this Posting of Workers Directive that were most critical. There are some important safeguards in the European Directive to ensure fair competition between companies and the social protection of workers. Posting is always temporary and after the working period the employee should normally return to the home country after a maximum of 12 or in some cases 18 months. Moreover, the gross wage of the recipient country must be paid to the worker concerned rather than that of the home country, in order to prevent the excessive pay gap and thus the risk of unfair competition between a number of southern and central European countries with the rest of Europe. Despite the fact that a number of safeguards were incorporated into the European Directive, it was very soon clear that the whole Posting of Workers Directive offered a great deal of opportunities to malicious companies. The consequences of social dumping are enormous. The working conditions of these workers are often repulsive, the rules on safety, hygiene, health, the minimum number of holidays and minimum wages included in the regulations are not or are difficult to maintain, and we are not talking about the additional problems, such as housing. Foreign companies providing services must also ensure that social security contributions are paid in the country of origin. In many countries these social contributions are much lower than in Belgium, which in any case creates unfair competition with our workers. The control of effective payment remains very difficult. There are a number of control mechanisms, such as Limosa, Dimona and Checkinatwork, but the latter only applies to large yards. The recent tragic accident in the construction of a school in Antwerp once again hit our society with the noses on the facts. Our construction sites are becoming more international. At first, it was even completely unclear to the emergency services what nationality the deadly victims had. In the end, five people died, construction workers who lost their lives thousands of miles from home. According to the construction trade union, the number of yard accidents involving foreign workers will only increase. By the way, the whole chain of subcontractors makes control very difficult. Workers often do not know our language, rules and safety regulations. A contractor may hire a subcontractor from Romania, but in turn may employ another self-employed person from Russia or Uzbekistan. This creates a situation that simply cannot be regulated. This also increases, of course, the chance that the workers do not know our language and our safety regulations are unknown to them, as are our materials and techniques. The construction sites are becoming increasingly high-tech. All this has a much greater chance of an accident. Previous questions showed a spectacular increase in the number of third-country nationals in this situation year after year. On the basis of recent figures from 2019, 270,000 posted workers appear to be active in Belgium. What is your position on this very high figure, in the light of the high level of unemployment among less educated people in certain regions of this country and of the policy option to go to an activity rate of 80%? Can you tell us how many checks the social inspection is carrying out in this country, with the aim of checking the regulations applicable to posted workers? How many infringements were identified in 2019 and 2020? Social dumping is often a part of a whole chain of problems, including house melting. Are checks also being carried out on the housing of these workers? How is the correct payment of the social contributions of such posted workers checked in their country of origin? How many non-reported workers from abroad were found on Belgian construction yards and in meat processing companies in 2019 and 2020? What will you do to deny a number of pertinent malicious foreign companies the opportunity to work in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u58	The principle of posting is legally enshrined in European law. However, the rules must be respected. The government has made the fight against social dumping a real priority. The secondment investigations are mainly carried out by the social inspection services of the FOD WASO, the RSZ and the RSVZ. The social inspection services of the RVA and the RIZIV participate in joint actions. I will provide you with the tables of the number of inspections and their results. When reading the tables, it should be noted that a regularisation imposed on the employer may concern several employees. In addition, the corona crisis has also had an impact on the evolution of controls between 2019 and 2020. Not only the temporary closure of companies, but also the travel restrictions have an impact on the number of infringements detected. The control of the housing situation of workers is the responsibility of the regional housing inspection, not of the federal inspection services. However, the regional housing inspection participates in joint inspections of the federal inspection. The collection of social contributions for foreign workers not covered by Belgian social security is the exclusive responsibility of the social security institution of the sending Member State. The RSZ is therefore responsible for checking the declaration and for correct collection of the contributions of the persons covered by Belgian social security. The RSZ inspectors shall examine the Member State in which the workers are to be subject to social security, in accordance with European legislation. When the RSZ concludes that these are Belgians, it is examined whether the employees concerned receive correct benefits and wages and whether the social security contributions are collected in Belgium. During these investigations, the RSZ inspectors actually use different databases such as Limosa, Work Declaration and Checkinatwork. In the event of formal infringements, they shall draw up a report. When checking foreign posted workers, checks shall be carried out to ensure that they have an A1 certificate. The presentation of an A1 certificate shows that the worker concerned is at least known and indicated to the social security institution which issued the form. Since the A1 certificate is highly susceptible to fraud, the RSZ has an intensive exchange with foreign colleagues to verify the authenticity of the A1 certificate. This exchange may lead to controls in the country of origin. The RSZ is also responsible for monitoring undeclared work. There are no separate statistics on the number of non-notified foreign workers, but in total the RSZ inspectors identified more than 14,000 infringements in 2019 for workers in the construction sector and 110 for employees in the meat sector. In 2020, 3,823 workers were employed in the construction sector and 38 in the meat sector. As part of the SIOD's strategic plan, we will once again focus on the priority fight against social dumping. Together with the competent administration, it will be examined how sanctions for companies that do not comply with the rules can be tightened, of course in accordance with European directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I will be delighted to receive the promised table. I have a few comments to make. Firstly, with regard to the figures. As you said yourself, Corona has thrown soot in the food, but there were still almost 4,000 violations in the construction sector. In 2019 there were 14,000 violations. Then it's just about the employees they've checked. The representative of the SIOD recently stated in this committee that he lacked employees and resources to carry out more checks. I conclude from this that this is just the tip of the iceberg. As far as the responsibility of that regional housing inspection is concerned, it is correct that this is a Flemish and Walloon competence. But one of their sources of information is the exchange with other inspection services, because, as always, social dumping is only part of a whole chain of fraud or situations that we would rather not have in this country. The difficult living situation of these workers is one part of that, the house smelting that comes to see another. The exchange between all these inspection services, regional and federal, can bring to light several problems and in several areas that employers or couple managers address. Unfortunately, for many of these inspections, you refer to the European directive on the payment of social security contributions in the country of origin of workers, which is the most important issue. And that, of course, is where the shoe is wringing. These contributions are often much lower in those countries than in our country, which makes it unfair competition, and they are often not paid either. If we then depend on the social inspection from a country like Romania, which is also at a different level from our country in terms of the provision of services, then of course we do not fight with equal weapons. The Belgians who are posted abroad will be very well checked, I am 100% sure of that. But of course these other countries have no advantage. Why would an inspection service from Romania act harshly against abuses of workers posted to our country? After all, they pay a lot of money for their economy. They deserve a wage that is high according to Romanian standards, but low according to our standards and that also competes our companies away. So they will not be severely dealt with in their country. Then why do I still want to argue for that? You know that my party is not in favour of the Posting of Workers Directive and the social dumping that goes with it. We also believe that social security contributions should always be paid in the country of employment, because then we are really fighting with equal weapons. These are the changes that my party would like to make through the European Parliament, but why not through this Parliament? Combating social dumping, of course, also means combating all kinds of such phenomena, and preferably very intensely, by really getting close to that abuse through all possible inspection services. But then, of course, these inspection services must have the necessary legal and financial resources to actively detect these abuses. We therefore hope that we will be able to return the jobs of those posted workers to a large number, 270,000 last year, to a large proportion of the people in our own country in order to increase the level of activity to 80%.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u60	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Hans Verreyt and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Hans Verreyt and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - in view of the poor working conditions of posted workers, - having regard to the large cost for our social security due to a lack of income; - having regard to the fraud committed by many foreign contractors and subcontractors sending seconded personnel, - in view of the large economic disparities within the European internal market; - having regard to the fact that the Posting of Workers Directive undermines existing social legislation; - having regard to the fact that the posting enables irregular migration from third countries; - having regard to the fact that the posting by malicious companies enables illegal employment and trafficking in human beings; calls on the Government - to make the social security contributions of posted workers pay in Belgium; - to combat social dumping, including by actively detecting 'letterbox companies'; - to provide all inspection services with sufficient legal and financial resources to detect all abuses; - to forward the employment occupied by posted workers to our own people as far as possible." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Hans Verreyt and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Hans Verreyt and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - in view of the poor working conditions of posted workers; - in view of the high cost to our social security due to the loss of income; - in view of the fraud committed by many foreign contractors and subcontractors who send seconded personnel; - in view of the significant economic differences within the European internal market; - in view of the fact that the Detachment Directive undermines existing social regulations; - in view of the fact that secondment makes irregular migration from third countries possible; - in view of the fact that the secondment by genuine companies makes possible illegal occupation of labour and trafficking in human beings; asks the government - to ensure that the social security contributions of posted workers are paid in Belgium; - to combat social dumping, in particular by actively identifying "box companies"; - to provide all inspection services with sufficient legal and financial means to detect all abuses; - to ensure that the jobs held by posted workers are returned to our citizens as far as possible." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Chanelle Bonaventure. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Chanelle Bonaventure. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Ms. Bonaventure also presented me with a simple motion, which would be forwarded by the secretariat to be tabled in plenary. More motions will be tabled, but it will probably be for the parliamentary re-entry. Mr. Verreyt, I will keep you informed of the time when the motion will be presented in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u61	Madam President, Minister, the reform of artist status seems to be slowly taking shape. We learn from the press that the members of your cabinet have drafted a reform proposal on two key points: on the one hand, the status as such and, on the other, the Committee on Arts Workers via the Social Security FPS. Until now, the latter had issued cards and visas to artists. It is therefore not a piece of legislation but an already very sharp strategic direction, which is the starting point for reform supported by the social partners and the federal government. Minister, where exactly are we in the drafting of this statute? What is the continuation of events at this level? When can we discuss this in Parliament, particularly in this committee? Can you give us an outline of the current proposal? We have already received criticism from artists' associations about what is on the table. I will mention a few of them: - the lack of consideration of the members of your firm for their proposals and their vision as representatives of the sector; - rather vague criteria for obtaining status, effectively excluding certain occupations; - a renewal of the status far too strict; - a lack of guarantee on the representation of the sector in the new commission; - a lack of a majority vote for the representatives of the sector in the new committee. In view of the criticisms made by the actors on the ground, what are you going to do? Are you going to change the current version or are you going to relaunch the discussions and consultation with the actors on the ground? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u62	Minister, since the conclusion of the first stage of work on the reform of evil called "artist status", many analyses of federations or associations have been published. I have been able to read the various texts and I wish to share with you my questions and concerns every growing day. As my colleague has just pointed out, the least we can say is that many criticisms are made, both on the substance and on the form and method of work. However, Minister, just a few days ago you spoke in plenary, in my presence, of some minor frustrations. After analyzing what he's saying, I think it's a lot more. I would like you to confirm that you will take into account these critical feedbacks for further work. Whether it is derogatory measures, renewal or responsibility to decide on the artistic character by a dedicated commission, there seems to be still a lot of work on the board. Can you assure us, Minister, that there will not only be no loss of acquired rights, but that recognition of the artistic character of these workers will be guaranteed? Let me turn to my second question. I read - and the astonishment was real - in the various notes of analysis carried out by the federations concerned by the work of co-construction of the reform which it was essential to recall that: "The framework of these meetings was strict. He was not all known before the first meeting. It could be summarized as follows: an annual budget of 75 million is allocated for a reform of the "status" which will take place in unemployment insurance, by adjusting existing rules and respecting social solidarity and the principle of social contributions. These new rules will be the subject of a separate chapter in the regulation of current unemployment." However, Mr Minister, if you remember correctly, you yourself confirmed in this committee on 28 April that the debates were still very open and that even if you doubted the will of the federations to do tabula rasa and to get out of unemployment benefits, such a path could be the subject of reflection. You also recalled the framework set by the government on 19 May in the Social Affairs Committee: "This is a modernisation of social protection, and therefore an improvement of the status of existing artist, by which social security is adapted to the practice and needs of the sector. Artistic practice is strengthened and/or solidarity with and in the sector will be guaranteed." Therefore, this return of representatives to the table is clear: the framework seems to have been presented in a much stricter way than here in committee. Can you assure me, Minister, that a substantive debate has taken place on the relevance of maintaining the non-statut in the derogations relating to unemployment benefits in order to co-build, as you yourself stressed in plenary on 8 June, a real statute? My question is very simple: has co-construction work been opened to all possible leads?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u63	Colleagues, if I may, I will first look back at how we wanted to work together and in collaboration with representatives of the sector(s) - the sector being multi-faceted and multidisciplinary. We are in the presence of a working group and a Working in the Arts platform has been created to develop proposals for the reform of the statute. After some 20 meetings, the working group was able to come up with concrete proposals to improve the statute, the role of the commission and the scheme of small allowances (RPI) - three elements that had been identified as priorities in this long-term work that we presented to you with my colleagues Vandenbroucke and Clarinval. The Commission and Statute proposal has already been published on the Working in the Arts platform and the proposals on RPI will soon be published. They are still to be formally approved by the members of the working group. I repeat, the proposals that are on the table today are not the proposals of the members of my cabinet; they are the proposals from the working group. The proposals of the working group are now submitted to the social partners. This is a step that was announced in the presentation of the philosophy and the reform process. Once the opinions of the social partners have been delivered, the discussion will take place first within the government and then within your assembly. In broad terms, the proposals today on the table first facilitate access to the status of worker and worker in the arts sector. They also aim to break the logic that considers workers in the sector to be job seekers in recognition of their status as workers, for example by putting an end to the harassment felt by some and some of them. Mrs Moscufo, on your question about mistrust of the ONEM, one of the main points of the proposals is precisely that it will no longer be for the ONEM to judge the artistic or technical character of a performance, but rather for a commission in which representatives of the sector sit. I hear the fears expressed about the future committee, some of which believe that it will be too strict, while others believe that it will be too lax. For my part, I believe that we must be able to trust the representatives of the sector who will have to sit on this future committee. The Commission will be composed of 50% representatives from the sector, who will also have a leading role. This offers more guarantees than the current situation and is likely to reassure those who fear too strict treatment. Madam Chair, logically, at the beginning of the work of the working group, the framework set by the government was presented to the members of the committee. In accordance with the presentation made in your committee, the government's objective is to put in place social security rules more adapted to the situations and needs of workers in the sector, to strengthen artistic practice and to foster solidarity with and within the sector. To this end, it is envisaged that proposals will be made on the regulation of unemployment, on the role of the Artist Commission in the social status of artists, on the consequences of the scheme of small allowances on the social status of artists and on the articulation of the social status of artists with the exercise of an independent activity, and on the mechanisms of transition from and to the self-employed. In addition, discussions will continue. We have decided to phase out the various stages of this reflection and holistic approach. To achieve these ambitions, the government has put in place an additional budget of €75 million. However, at the first meetings of the working group, a substantive debate took place on how best to improve the status. For example, various avenues have been developed, such as the introduction of a new working statute, the introduction of a basic income, the creation of a new branch of social security or the establishment of a civil servant's status. These various proposals were obviously discussed, but it became clear that for a majority of the members it was important to provide for a single status which is part of the general social security system. A reform within the ONEM has emerged as the most appropriate. In addition, it is important to ensure the distribution of competences. Social security is fully within the competence of the federal government, but cultural policies are largely within the competence of the Communities. In this respect, I hear the concerns expressed, in particular about the rules of renewal which are closely linked to employment in the sector. That is also why we have set up a working group within the CIM Culture to discuss the socio-economic position of workers. Concrete proposals are expected to improve and strengthen employment in the arts sector. In fact, paid and quality employment remains the best way to strengthen the social protection of workers, as well as to promote cultural and artistic activity and creation, a problem which is systematically raised during the discussions within the working group, particularly when it comes to the use of the RPI. This is a first step with a series of positive elements and with, what is always the case, questions and even criticisms. We are now entering a second phase: the consultation of the social partners, the open democratic debate. We have made the choice of transparency, which can generate public criticisms that we assume, but which can be a source of reflection leading to a change in the work. I repeat that this work is a work of co-construction with advantages and limitations. Nevertheless, the intention is to achieve a status corresponding to the needs of workers in the arts sector in the widest possible way. The first stage, neither definitive nor decisive, but important, will be complemented by other stages and by a public debate, first through the platform as it currently takes place, with the social partners and, after a passage to the government, with the members of your committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u64	Minister, we hear your answer. However, our feedback remains critical of the content. I have mentioned some aspects and I would like to express others. Some cultural workers fear being excluded. I hear your answer, but this one doesn't reassure me. You spoke of extremely serious consequences in case of suspicion of fraud. A special appeal board should be established, not an internal appeal procedure for the Arts Labour Committee. There are also concerns about the need to take equal days into account when opening up unemployment rights, to facilitate the renewal of the statutes and to individualize social rights. There are concerns about the lack of regulation of social offices for artists, particularly with regard to deductions from workers' wages, and the need for genuine social consultation with actors on the ground. You say you do things, but the critics are still strong enough. We are talking about a simulac de concertation, to use the words of some of the actors with whom we have been in contact. These people remain seeking to act with you, as is our case as a party. As a committee, we could see to what extent it would be possible to reopen constructive debates by possibly providing for further hearings or on the basis of other concrete proposals that you could make to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u65	Minister, you know how enthusiastic I am and how much I support the ambitious and courageous procedure that you have initiated. Indeed, as you pointed out, the sector is multifaceted, multidisciplinary. Moreover, the stakes are numerous and do not always meet. In this case, the best way would probably be to identify the most fragile, those for whom this will be the most complicated. If we protect those for whom the preservation of social protection will be the most delicate, we will probably protect the greatest number. As far as the idea of leaving the job-seeker condition is concerned, I have not heard of it. I have seen nothing about this in everything I have read, neither in the text of the proposal, nor in all the analyses, sometimes of high quality, that have been done. I therefore do not understand how one can get out of the job-seeker condition when one remains in unemployment benefit and when one conditions the opening and maintenance of rights to remuneration which is not a guaranteed right on the part of the State. This is a problem for us. I hear you have conducted a debate on the various possibilities that have been discussed. I will therefore reread all the notes again because I have had to misinterpret the documents that have been communicated to us and the statements that have been made. In any event, we must build on certain guarantees to ensure that membership is as broad as possible. It would be fatal if the whole multidisciplinary sector, as you say very well, did not adhere to this reform, which is extremely important to everyone. Finally, you spoke about the social partners, saying that they would have the opportunity to express their views as well. I hope that we will have and that they will have time to identify these issues before work within the government and before the return to Parliament. So I ask that we be given a breath of oxygen and a little time. One of our colleagues pointed out that we need to take a little vacation, a little rest. I very much hope that this will also be the case for the social partners. I therefore hope that this summer will not be a summer when some and others will have to take a long time to study notes, analyses, etc. We must be able to devote time to this in September, even if we know that time is running out for this reform. However, it is better to go slowly and surely rather than very quickly and clumsyly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u66	Minister, on Friday, June 19, a dramatic construction accident occurred in Antwerp, during which a school under construction collapsed, causing the death of five workers and wounding eight others. This is obviously a tragedy of almost unprecedented magnitude in our country. However, we know that the construction sector is one of those where serious accidents occur on a regular basis. It is of course important to look for the exact cause. Moreover, the debate on the concrete situation in the sector – secondment, subcontracting, social dumping and working conditions – must also be conducted. The construction sector is, in fact, known for its cascade of subcontracting. On large construction sites, it is often even difficult to know who works, when and under what conditions. Such a tangle of ambiguity further increases the risk of social abuse and accidents and therefore makes it all the more necessary for prevention and control to be reinforced by the authorities. Minister, has the Labour Inspectorate recently visited this site? Does it systematically verify all construction sites of all construction companies with an aggravated risk? Do you pursue this objective by increasing the number of social inspections in this industry? How do you reach out to foreign subcontractors and their staff in order to motivate them to work safely?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days after the tragic accident in Antwerp, I met with a trade union delegation from the construction sector. I have informed them that I cannot provide much additional information on the specific dossier, as a judicial investigation has been initiated. We shared our concerns about working conditions, in particular with regard to foreign nationals, whether or not third-country nationals, whether posted or not, whether or not employed directly by Belgian companies, whatever the nature of their employment relationship, self-employed or wage-earners. The forthcoming consultations will take place on 15 July. I can't anticipate the content of this conversation. As regards the issue of posting and social dumping at European level, I had the opportunity to discuss this during the debate that took place at the committee meeting on 22 June last. In the context of the budgetary debates, I will ask for additional inspectors to be recruited. The demand for responsibility for medical costs can be reduced to the question of the applicability of social security legislation. In the case of employees subject to Belgian social security, the intervention in the event of an accident at work shall be borne by the statutory insurer of the employer. However, social dumping has many forms of expression. If the so-called hard core of labour law was not respected, for example when employees were paid under the statutory minimum wage, Belgian social security legislation does not apply immediately, but the social security scheme remains fully applicable in the country of origin of their employers. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, a first consultation meeting following the first meeting with the union delegation from the construction sector will take place on July 15, in two days' time. It is clear that we are going to address the specificities of the construction sector and in particular the question of posted workers, their safety and the way in which accidents at work are accounted for. We will also talk about how they are or are not covered by the various social security systems. We really have the will to make it a priority and to tackle this situation whose tragic Antwerp accident has brought to light all the complexity and all the hardness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u68	Minister, thank you. It is, of course, a good thing that you have already met this trade union delegation, and that you are going to see it again. It seems essential to me to work in this way. You want to take further steps to deal with the situation, which also reassures me. But in our view, that will not be enough. It is known that, for example, the Social Inspectorate has been gradually derailed in recent years. We know the government's intention to stop this reduction. It has even been announced that you want to spend an additional budget on this, but I think you also know that this will not be enough in relation to the actual situation. We really have to keep typing on that nail. You are right to mention the whole European aspect. Both things are necessary: more controls here and now, and continue to hit the nail at European level. It is necessary to stop this dumping with, among other things, the emphasis on a fairly simple claim, namely the minimum wage at European level, even if it is known that this will not solve the whole matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u69	Minister, it is good that there will be a next meeting on 15 July. We certainly support you in your quest for more inspectors. As the coalition agreement says, we want to move towards the ILO standard, but we still have a long way to go. It is a huge challenge to ensure that no one slips through the loopholes of the social security network, given the clumsiness in which we have ended up, but it is also incredibly important. These people sometimes do not always have the unbelievable misfortune of having to work in very difficult circumstances. In this case, there have even been serious injuries and deaths and it is impossible for them to pay for their medical costs at the end of the journey. So I am very pleased that you are handling the dossier well, but I fear it will not be easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u70	Minister, I am pleased that you are dealing with this matter and that this meeting will take place soon. I assume that the sector will also be present at that meeting and not just the trade unions. The employers in the construction sector must also be associated with this. You want to guarantee a level playing field, but if you do comply with the rules of the game, you will also be the victim of social dumping and such practices. We must work together to ensure both fair wages and social protection for workers and a level playing field. I also said last time that, of course, in our group, you will find a supporter to strengthen the inspection services. That is one thing, but there is also the European gaggle and we support you in initiatives to improve it. Of course, that will not be a simple task, but we will face the challenge together and move forward step by step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u71	Madam President, Minister, I had already asked a question on this subject. At that time, you had made it quite imperative that the right to vaccination leave should be respected in the sector. In the meantime, a survey of the three trade unions has been published, decreased between 19 May 2021 and 14 June 2021. It showed that there were a lot of problems after all. A majority of employers still do not apply this legislation. My question refers to the different percentages, but it turns out that some people do not pay the wages, while others put pressure on their workers, not to do the vaccination during the hours and to move their vaccination appointment. All kinds of creative solutions are being found not to apply the law. That's poignant. This is a sector in which the infections are high and the workers have every interest in following the vaccination time allocated to them and certainly not delaying them, because they are at work at that time. They are also workers who work for a very low wage. Some employers put them on unpaid leave. They have low wages. They have often been temporarily unemployed during the lockdown because they had to stop visiting certain families. Now they are also put on unpaid leave at the time of vaccination. As a result of these surveys, I have the following questions. How will we deal with the problem further? Has there been any consultation with the regions in this area? Several regional ministers have indicated that they want to see whether they can link with the withdrawal of the recognition of service cheque companies that violate the rules. I know a service cheque company that has just posted an ad valvas poster in the company, which states that vaccination leave should not be taken during working hours, but that it should be postponed to free time. It would have been good, for example, to have a check carried out there, to draw up a report and to send it to the regions. Mr Minister, we must set an example here, not only for the health of domestic workers, but also for general public health. The numbers are rising again. I certainly don't want to predict doom scenarios. The vaccinations are also progressing well. However, it is necessary to step up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u72	Madam President, if the Labour Inspectorate finds out that an employer does not comply with the employee's legal right to be vaccinated during working hours, it shall immediately contact the employer to draw attention to the relevant legal provisions. For the sake of clarity, the mandatory competence of the Labour Inspectorate is limited in this matter to those employers who have not paid the salary when the vaccination leave was effectively taken up. Since the Law of 28 March 2021 does not provide for sanctions, the Labour Inspectorate can only inform employers about the granting of vaccination leave. Since the last state reform, the recognition of a service-cheque company and, consequently, the withdrawal of that recognition has been the responsibility of the regional minister for employment. When checking the wage and working conditions by the Federal Labour Inspectorate Supervision of Social Laws, any infringements are also communicated to other competent inspections and administrations in accordance with the Social Criminal Code. A first consultation on working conditions, compliance with social legislation and the possible consequences for recognition took place on 18 June. A second consultation was held on 8 July with the aim of establishing a coordinated and integrated approach for inspection services in order to give a clear signal to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your initiatives to arrive at a coordinated approach through consultation. After all, some service cheque companies are very hard learners. Unfortunately, they need a clear approach. It was initially about the protective equipment and it is now about vaccination leave. The survey shows that, in 39% of cases, wages are not paid. If there are CVs where infringements of vaccination leave have been detected, the Brussels and Flemish ministers are prepared to consider whether they can withdraw the recognition. The time has come to set some examples, so that everyone in the sector knows that legislation must be complied with in the interests of domestic aid and public health in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u74	Mr Minister, I discovered - and probably you too - in the newspaper The Future of Monday, 21 June, the absolutely implausible story of a working mother who was forced to use the temporary covid unemployment scheme to keep her children at the end of March, the school being closed because of the health situation. While this scheme was being used wisely, the ONEM refused to grant the compensation. Indeed, the day concerned by the application for unemployment benefits coincided with a day of national strike, so the agency suspected that the lady wanted to apply for a day of unemployment to participate in the strike. The rule invoked by the ONEM is that, when a worker actually strikes, he cannot be compensated if he has an interest in the outcome of the strikers' claims, as specified in a Royal Decree of 1991. If there is only one day off during the month and falls during a national strike, suspicion prevails a priori. Consequently, to avoid fraud, isolated days of unemployment are simply not compensable. The burden of proof therefore lies with the worker, who must demonstrate the absence of participation in the strike - which obviously raises serious legal questions. In addition, in the present case, the person is fully in good faith, did not participate in the strike and proved by means of a document signed by the employer, as well as a certificate of honour - but without effect, since he did not receive any compensation. Mr Minister, in my view, under no circumstances can a right be denied by the Onem on the basis that the person concerned is a fraud. This bias is not acceptable, a fortiori if no evidence can counter it. Do you share this analysis? Is it acceptable that when a worker uses his right for a single day, he can be refused for reasons totally external to the demand, linked to the social context? What initiatives will you take to ensure that the rights of workers, and especially of working parents, are respected? In particular, will you intervene to stop this practice of reversing the burden of proof and making it accept evidence that is produced in good faith? Will you remind him of this evidence?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Cornet, for your question. First of all, know that the ONEM is not based on the principle of fraud, but on the fact that an isolated day of unemployment which coincides with a day of strike is, in principle, considered to be linked to the strike. The aim of the regulation is not that strike actions should be financed by the temporary unemployment system, you will understand that. There would also be prejudice in the fact that the decision on the possible granting of temporary unemployment would, in the event of a strike, be taken by the Management Committee of the ONEM. The latter, in the context of a general strike due to wage claims, for example, will generally decide not to compensate, given the interest that all employees have in satisfying these claims. In this case, two grounds for suspension may occur on the same day. It is the suspension that has taken place first and that has been established that has priority. The execution of an employment contract, which has already been suspended for one day, can hardly be suspended again for another reason. Since the strike notice for the trade union action of 29 March 2021 was filed on 11 March 2021, the strike takes precedence in principle over the suspension of the performance of the employment contract on the grounds of force majeure, since this suspension was not known until later. But it is of course a question of fact, and if the employee can prove that he did not take part in the social action and can demonstrate that there was indeed temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure, on the day of the strike, the principles of competition are obviously not at stake and the employee can be compensated for that day. In addition, it is expressly provided, in the context of the Corona situation, that payments made by payment agencies for isolated days of unemployment will be accepted by the ONEM. In order not to delay the payment of benefits, in particular in the case of temporary unemployment to care for a child, the ONEM decided to investigate these cases himself in case of suspicion of undue payment. If the worker did not participate in the social action and, for example, the demand for temporary unemployment due to force majeure was justified, because the school was effectively closed due to measures to limit the spread of coronavirus, the benefits will of course continue to be paid. As far as the present case is concerned, I have inquired from the competent unemployment office of the ONEM and it appears that some of the statements published in the press must be nuanced. The ONEM confirms to me that, in this case, a payment can actually be accepted but that this payment had apparently not yet been made by the payment agency, perhaps because of a misunderstanding of the above mentioned rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u76	Minister, I thank you not only for your answer, but above all for the content of it. That's an excellent thing you're pointing out. Obviously, when parents are stuck because of a closed school, they must have access to temporary unemployment, regardless of the external situation, social situation, day of strike or anything else. You confirm that, and I thank you for that. I find this quite positive. On the other hand, on the assumption that in the event of a strike, the suspicion that the person would participate in the strike is, in general, not an interesting prerequisite when analyzing the files of the persons. This principle should, in any case, be reviewed. You say it will be reviewed in cases related to temporary unemployment covid. It could be reviewed in other cases as well. I thank you for your confirmation that unemployment will be well paid in cases like the one I have just described and that the particular case I have just mentioned would be already being resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u77	Madam President, Madam Member, I thank you for your question on an important subject, a sensitive subject which, as you know, is the subject of work by my College Vincent Van Quickenborne, who is actively working on a reform of the Penal Code in this area. This is a subject that I am obviously very attentive to. I am also very attentive to the work of my colleague, Frank Vandenbroucke, on the social protection of these workers. He knows that he can count on my full cooperation on this and other issues. As far as skills are concerned, I am fully involved in improving the working conditions of these people. At present, it is not possible to conclude an employment contract for prostitution-related activities. Indeed, such a contract is null and void because it is contrary to public order and morality. The reform of the Criminal Code would not change that since procuring would always be subject to criminal penalties, except for cases strictly regulated by law. However, we must not hide our face, labour contracts are now already concluded in disguise, for example, by referring to the activity of a waiter/server, masseur/masseur, when it is actually a matter of prostitution-related benefits. At present, the absolute nullity of the employment contract is particularly detrimental to the rights of workers because the contract is deemed never to have existed. This has many negative effects on the worker, including the elimination of the protection of earnings, access to unemployment, possible notice, pension rights, maternity protection, and so on. These are dramatic consequences in that they increase the precariousness of the workers concerned. To give you a concrete example, a person engaged as a waiter in a champagne bar, but who, in reality, carries out sexual activities, will not be able to take legal action to win the case if his remuneration is not paid. The employer may invoke the nullity of the contract. The worst is that he loses his protection, his right to remuneration and the other two things I mentioned above. This situation has already been denounced by actors in the field, labour auditors, university professors, especially in a carte blanche published a few years ago. That is why, on this basis and in the context of the reform carried out by my colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne, I am drafting a bill so that, in this context, the nullity of the contract cannot be opposed to the rights of workers, and therefore that the rights of workers are, in all cases, guaranteed. This bill will shortly be submitted to the Government and the Institute for Gender Equality will be regularly consulted on this and other issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u78	Minister, thank you for the additional information. We are informed, mainly by the press, that the reform of the Penal Code is under way and is about to be completed at the government level. She will then come to Parliament. We are among those who hope to have a broad public debate on this issue. That seems important to us. What seems particularly important to us is to ensure that we do not move any faster on the reform of the Penal Code without ensuring the necessary protection of persons in prostitution – some will speak of sex workers. This seems to us to put the plough before oxen to work only on the Penal Code and not on the protection of workers. It is interesting to hear that you are already working on a bill, particularly in collaboration with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and with, I hope, the people concerned. Care should be taken to ensure that the draft law could be concluded almost in conjunction with the reform of the Penal Code. I know you're paying attention to this question. We will be, too. Let us be vigilant not to facilitate the work of pimps to the detriment of the living conditions of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u79	As of January 2022, KBC bank will experiment with Sunday work in its call centre for eight months. The employees will respond from home from calls. The teleworkers working from home on Sundays are employed as domestic workers. Of course, there's a big difference between a houseworker and a teleworker. This has an impact on their protection, especially in terms of working hours and expenses. However, telework is not homework. This is also apparent from the will of both the Belgian and European social partners. According to collective agreement No. 85 and the opinions of the NAR must be treated on an equal footing with the employees working at the company's premises. The European framework agreement between the social partners also provides for equal treatment of teleworkers and workers at the workplace. However, the bank claims that it tested the legal framework of the experiment at the FOD WASO. Have you taken note of KBC's decision and the legal basis on which the decision was taken? Is it true that the interpretation of KBC has been verified by the FOD WASO? What interpretation does the FPS give, also in view of the wishes of the social partners? Will the final scheme be checked by the FOD WASO or by the inspection services to see if the agreement is final? What implications does this qualification have on the rights of the workers concerned, as well as on the other workers who work telework, where the experiment could be regarded as a precedent in the context of business negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u80	I, like you, have taken note of KBC's communication on a collective agreement concluded in the company on a temporary experiment for Sunday work through voluntary telework. My administration was not directly questioned by KBC. Structural telework is a specific form of home-based work, which is not subject to the provisions relating to home-based work, which are covered by the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, but by collective agreement No 85 of the National Labour Council on telework. Pursuant to article 3 bis of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971, homeworkers are excluded from the provisions on working time and Sunday rest provided for in that Act. This exclusion, which is based on the employer's inability to exercise any supervision and direct control in this context, also applies to teleworkers. However, structural teleworkers are subject to collective agreement No. 85 which guides the organization of telework. This collective agreement provides, inter alia, for the following: Teleworkers enjoy the same rights as comparable workers working at the employer's premises. Within the framework of the working time in force in the undertaking, the teleworker himself organises his work. Teleworkers are subject to the same workload and performance standards as workers carrying out similar work at the employer's premises. An employer wishing to introduce structural telework must therefore take these provisions into account and it should be noted that CTC No 85 is the result of negotiations between the social partners within the National Labour Council; it is therefore primarily their responsibility to interpret these provisions. Discussions on the evaluation of telework regulations are currently under way at the National Labour Council (NLC). In this context, I will discuss with the social partners the extent to which these rules need to be adapted and whether a legislative initiative is necessary. With regard to Mrs Moscufo's questions on the specific provisions of collective agreements and their possible application to teleworkers, I cannot make any general statement. This requires a concrete legal assessment prior to the individual provisions on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am relieved by your confirmation that telework is not homework and that the interpretation of a statement by the FOD WASO which KBC uses to employ as domestic workers is not correct. I had already mentioned to the people of KBC that we should not get Sister Jeanne Devos from India to stand up for the teleworkers who are employed under the status of a domestic worker with less social protection. In any case, this proves that the framework for teleworking, which you have requested from the NAR and for which I have tabled a motion for a resolution in Parliament, is much needed. At present, different calls are being made at company level, not always following the right rules. In the specific case, it is important to enforce the right rules. I look forward to a better framework, which will be drawn up by the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u82	Minister, you clarified that home work and telework are two different things. In this case, it is clear that one is faced with a company which uses the concrete situation to increase its profit through the worsening of working conditions. We have not yet heard your views on this. Secondly, on the questions I have asked you, I do not have much experience on the matter, but I think that we cannot get out of it without having a legislative initiative to clarify all this and a legislative initiative that does not produce levelling down, which would make no sense. We will follow the case closely and do not hesitate to return to us if you have any information to send us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u83	Mrs Samyn, I think you're referring to an opinion piece in La Libre Belgique. First of all, I would like to say that the author of this opinion document does not propose to dump the re-integration legislation in the garbage can at all, quite the contrary. The author asks a rhetorical question, in order to answer it in full. Research has shown that getting back to work not only promotes the recovery process but that the majority of the long-term sick are also asking to resume work. However, reintegration legislation can be streamlined and simplified in order to work more efficiently. That's what we're doing. I am convinced that workers' doctors have a very important role to play in the process of re-integration. Since they know the working context of the disabled worker very well, they are best placed to assess whether or not an employee will be able to return to that work context in the long term, possibly with the necessary adjustments. It is also important for employers to clarify whether or not an employee can return to his old job, and what adjustments might be necessary for that. However, a compulsory visit to the occupational physician after four weeks of incapacity for work would mean that the occupational doctors would receive a lot of unnecessary consultations. On the one hand, these will be people who are far from returning due to treatment initiated or ongoing, for example in the case of cancer. On the other hand, there are also people who will be able to return to their old job automatically and without needing any adjustments. As the occupational doctors are already heavily questioned, this would create a considerable additional workload. The Codex on well-being at work expressly states that the occupational physician may also involve prevention advisers from other disciplines in the process of reintegration as a function of the specific health problem. For example, the prevention counsellor may deal with psychosocial aspects of a psychosocial problem or the prevention counsellor ergonomics in a musculoskeletal problem. The multidisciplinary approach is thus already present in the reintegration process for workers from the outset, but this could and should indeed be used more effectively in practice. We are currently looking at incentives for employers to step up their efforts to enable reintegration pathways to succeed. We are investigating which slopes are possible and how they can be further developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Many studies have already been published and scientific studies have been carried out. Based on those figures, we certainly have a closet full of reports and reports. However, we never see a broader survey among the people themselves. Why don't people get back to work? What are the reasons why people don't like the job anymore? Three quarters of the long-term sick indicate some form of psychological problems. So far there is still too little knowledge of the underlying causes. From our daily contacts with those involved we can ring the bell. These include limp childcare, low pay, little appreciation at work, a difficult private situation for single people or an unbearable workload. It is good to hear that you are working on a plan and are looking for solutions, because in order to solve this, you will certainly have to listen to the people themselves. If you think of solutions above the heads of people, then that will be nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u85	Madam President, Minister, in the meantime the question has been somewhat overtaken by current events. On the last day of school, a primary school here in my town had to close down completely. Meanwhile, we know it's an outbreak of the delta variant. The children of that primary school and their parents were then given the council to go into quarantine for the first fourteen days and not to go to holiday camp or to the playground. Of course, that's a damper at the joy of the farewell party that couldn't go on. At the moment, these people are working on their final days. This is particularly difficult for parents who work. In the meantime, about a thousand holiday camps have also stopped some thirteen camps early due to corona outbreaks. Fortunately, it is still a minority, so that the majority of children can enjoy their holidays at camp. Let's get that straight. But when you have to take the children home early when you have to go to work, you have a problem. Hence my question. Temporary unemployment for quarantine leave has been extended until the end of September. I was wondering if this could also be recorded during the holiday when there is a corona outbreak at such a camp, which therefore ends prematurely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u86	Madam President, Ms Vanrobaeys, the law of 23 October 2020 allows parents to be absent from work when their child's class, school or childcare is closed. In that absence, the worker is entitled to a temporary unemployment benefit. The Law of 20 December 2020 has extended this right to other situations in which children are quarantined. The purpose of the law is to make it possible for workers to be absent from work when, as a result of a quarantine or isolation situation, their child cannot be received anywhere. As you rightly point out in your question, this was a solution for many parents when Easter camps were cancelled during the Easter holidays. The law of 23 October 2020 also applies in the event that a child cannot attend the course or camp due to quarantine or isolation. The answer to your question is therefore positive. My administration has been instructed to do so. Of course, the worker must be able to prove that the child was registered for a course or camp and that he or she cannot be present because of quarantine or isolation. The aim is, of course, to prevent parents from asking grandparents to take care of their grandchildren in an emergency. This poses a risk of infection, as not everyone has yet been fully vaccinated and protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u87	Minister, I do think that is important, because it is about public health. I understand, of course, that parents have to provide evidence, because abuses cannot be allowed to occur. It is really about public health and the care of children, when they had actually planned to work. It is also good that the instruction has been given, but I would like to suggest that the measure be made more public through the website of the RVA. I myself know a father who is divorced and fully vaccinated. He captures his child coming back from a camp where there was an outbreak. He took leave of absence for that purpose and therefore misses leave with his daughter, the sister who stays with the mom, so as not to contaminate it. They are trying to find solutions for public health, but they were not aware that this measure is an option, so that the man can no longer go on holiday with his two children afterwards. I am therefore suggesting that the measure should be made even more public, so that parents can avail themselves of the scheme when necessary, for example for one of the 13 camps that were cancelled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u88	Madam President, Mrs Thémont, thank you for your question. A draft law is being prepared which, pursuant to the Government Agreement, makes a number of amendments to Chapter 2 of the Act on feasible and manageable work in relation to interprofessional training efforts. A tighter growth path is planned in order to reach an average of five days of training per year in a company. An individual right to training is also created which can be implemented initially through sectoral collective agreements and, in a second stage, via a possible training account. The social partners submitted opinion 2225 on this subject to the National Labour Council on 29 June. The opinion is largely divided, as employers' organizations are even critical of certain intentions. On the basis of this opinion, the draft law will be adapted to the joint observations made by the social partners. However, the tighter growth path and the individual right to training will be maintained. In September, the appropriate bill will be discussed in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answer. We know how important training is for workers. On the business side, it is essential, in the face of innovation, to ensure competitiveness, but also precisely so that workers can adapt to the constant evolution of our society. I wanted to congratulate you on this initiative. I think this five-day individual quota is important. You will in any case resume contact with the social partners and make changes based on the opinions received. I believe that if an employee has the opportunity to train in skills related to the company's projects, he or she will be more motivated, supported and encouraged. It will also, in my view, be more determined through the valuing of its know-how, which is a real advantage for both the employee and the company. Continuing vocational training is also a way for smaller firms to save money, since existing employees can be trained in the advancement of business lines, thus avoiding sometimes costly recruitment. I had read an article about the fact that employers systematically form higher levels and often do not train people who are the least educated. A proper balance will have to be struck in the various training courses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u90	Minister, for professional cyclists and professional footballers, social contributions are calculated on the basis of a capped amount. This flat-rate amount is adjusted to the lowest ceiling for the calculation of social benefits. This system is considered discriminatory. In the meantime, the Antwerp Labour Court ruled that this is effectively discriminatory and constitutes a breach of Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. Have you taken note of this verdict? If so, what is your position? What will you do to change the current rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u91	The judgment to which you refer is an interim judgment which originates from an investigation of the inspection of the RSZ. In 2016, it was established by a football club that regularisations were imposed on players and trainers, on the one hand, on the basis of the Law of 24 February 1978 on the employment contract for paid sportsmen and on the other hand, on the basis of the Law of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts. A number of players received per season wages, premiums and expenses for an amount exceeding the annual total for a paid sportsman. In 2018, the RSZ subpoenaed that football club as an employer before the labour court. The Labour Court ruled in two judgments, an interim judgment of 9 April 2020 and an interim judgment of 29 July 2020. In the interim judgment of 9 April 2020, the Court ruled that Articles 6 and 31 of the Royal Decree implementing the RSZ Act do not comply with Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. In particular, the court ruled that today there is no reasonable justification for the distinction in treatment between paid sportsmen whose RSZ contributions are calculated on a flat-rate basis and other sportsmen who are employed on a lower wage than the statutory wage ceiling and whose RSZ contributions are calculated on a real wage. The interim judgment of 9 April 2020 is now final. In the interim judgment of 29 July 2020, the following question had to be answered: 'What are the consequences of excluding Articles 6 and 31 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969?' The RSZ argued that the application of the general method of calculation of the RSZ contributions for employees is the correct result, in accordance with Articles 14 to 18 of the RSZ Act. The court has followed the RSZ's position. It decided that the claim of the RSZ was well founded and reopened the debates to allow the RSZ to recalculate the RSZ contributions of the players concerned. However, account must be taken of the limited application of the law, in accordance with Article 1 of the Law of 3 March 1977 on the application of social security legislation to professional football players. That article limits the branches of social security for which social contributions are to be paid. On 13 August 2020, the football club filed an appeal against the interim judgment of 29 July 2020. It goes without saying that my colleague for Social Affairs and I are following closely the evolution of the dossier. However, it seems logical to me that we should wait until all the remedies are exhausted before we adapt the current rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u92	Minister, last weekend, editor-in-chief Peter De Groote of the business newspaper De Tijd wrote an opinion paper on this discriminatory system. Even in a generally liberal-minded newspaper, when one calls for this distorted situation to be addressed, one cannot deny that in the meantime there is more than a social support base for a thorough reform. A simple and fair tax is good for everyone. In the meantime, you have also read that the Special Tax Inspectorate has launched an investigation into a large number of first and second class football clubs. Without pre-empting this research, we will of course allow the service to do its job first and await the results with tension, it is striking that a great blur of standards has taken hold of many managers and owners of football clubs. It has nothing to do with sports anymore. The resources can be better spent. I am therefore counting on you to deal with the injustice in a short period of time, certainly this legislative period, together with your competent colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u93	Ms Thémont, the OECD and the Higher Employment Council conducted a specific study in 2020 on the future of employment of low-skilled people. The first element of your question, the possible loss of employment, remains very difficult to measure or predict. Estimates of the precise impact on employment vary considerably. In addition, the cost of automation may be higher than the cost of labour, making automation less attractive. In addition to the cost and availability of technology, social preferences and the role of the social partners will also determine the effects on employment. At the same time, the available forecasts indicate that new jobs will be created, but the type and number of jobs that will be created are very difficult to predict. The creation of jobs in the circular economy, among other things, would involve a relatively large number of jobs for low- and medium-skilled people, which could reduce the loss of jobs in other sectors. You also rightly stress the increased risk of polarisation between low-skilled and highly skilled jobs. Above all, we must continue to ensure that our labour law continues to ensure good jobs for all workers. As far as remuneration is concerned, the minimum wage increases agreed by the social partners will considerably help to ensure that remuneration is sufficiently high for all. Lifelong learning is also essential. A major challenge lies in more focused and effective lifelong learning. This is why this government insists on an individual right to training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answers. Robotisation is a phenomenon that is becoming very important in Belgium. We cannot deny that robotics and digitisation allow for better productivity and performance and are beneficial for our economic growth. But there are not only advantages: 13% of Belgians are worried about a possible disappearance of their function due to automation or technological progress. They're afraid of losing their jobs. The individual right to training is very important. Concrete measures must be put in place in collaboration with other levels of power in order to anticipate the consequences of robotics and not to leave our most fragile citizens at the edge of the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u95	Minister, I am being questioned by women who are currently in the process of medically assisted procreation about the difficulties they are experiencing at work. Indeed, this procedure, which is psychologically difficult for couples and specifically for women, is further exacerbated by problems at work and thus becomes a source of stress. Given the number of women involved and the extent of the problems encountered, I would like to take stock of the initiatives to ensure that they are not discriminated against at work. When these women begin this procedure, many are those for whom reconciliation with their work becomes a hell. At one point in the process, they have to go to the hospital every day to carry out examinations according to a schedule received the previous day. Those who do not have a variable work schedule are particularly vulnerable during this period and those who can organize with their employer or team are under very high pressure and mental burden. For those who don't have a job or would like to change it, the problem is just as huge. "How do we explain our regular absences to a new employer?", testified to a person concerned. When health problems are added, the situation is even more difficult, with repeated absences, often of judgment and incomprehension on the part of the employer or colleagues. Several testimonies have come from women who have not been able to keep their jobs or whose CSD has not been renewed, clearly in connection with the current LDC. Often they lack resources to enforce their rights. It is therefore important to think about the protection that can be given upstream. Minister, what legal protections are available to women in LDC proceedings? What facilities can be offered by occupational medicine? What could be the way to improve their situation while protecting their privacy? Is it possible, in your opinion, to provide women in LDCs with protection similar to that of pregnant women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u96	First of all, I would like to welcome the law of 4 February 2020, which made it possible to incorporate medically assisted procreation as a new criterion in the "gender" law. In case of unfavourable treatment or discrimination on grounds of sex, e.g. dismissal following in vitro fertilisation treatment, the mechanisms of protection of the "gender" law are therefore fully applicable. The worker may claim compensation for the damage suffered. It is also protected from possible reprisals. In the event of dismissal, she also has the opportunity to apply for reinstatement. On the other hand, under collective agreement No. 109 concerning the reasons for dismissal, the worker may request that her employer inform her of the concrete reasons for her dismissal. On the same basis, the employer would also be liable for compensation for manifestly unreasonable dismissal. The question of whether maternity protection should be extended as provided for in the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 in order to include also protection for female workers following an in vitro fertilisation procedure obviously deserves reflection. I shall shortly submit a request for an opinion to the Council for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women and to the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u97	Minister, thank you. I am pleased with your answer. It is true that in vitro fertilization is a medical and psychological test for women who use it. This is the course of the fighter in hospital, sometimes coupled with important social but also professional difficulties: stress, lack of adequate leave, risk of dismissal for repeated absences. The current social legislation is insufficient for these women and couples who need to be supported in their efforts. I note in any case that you are reflecting on this and that you are going to ask for different opinions on the subject. I will not fail to be attentive to it and to return to you in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u98	Minister, thank you for your answers. You do say that the woman can apply for reinstatement as a result of the harm suffered, but my question also concerned the things that can be put in place upstream. I understand that health cannot be a source of discrimination. I very much welcome your intention to reflect on how to better protect women in LDCs and to send the issue to the Council for Gender Equality and the CNT. I find your answer quite satisfactory and you will find Ecolo-Groen next to you if you want to move forward on these parental issues. It is really important that men and women, in this case women, be properly protected as parents and future parents when they are at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u99	Question No 55019730C by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u100	Minister, I am sorry to have to come back before the summer to the situation in the Aid Fund for unemployment benefits, which we have discussed several times. It is reported that there are still a number of problems, even though efforts have been made. Staff were recruited. The training of new employees at the HVW is not of the cat and takes a while. I also understand that there are other recruitments in the pipeline. However, an OCMW has informed me that the social assistants are very difficult to get in touch with the Auxiliairekas, both via mail and by telephone. It has even come to the point that the OMCW is charging people's trade union contributions because it is not being heard by the Auxiliaries. It's an absurd situation when OCMWs have to do something like that. At the same time, the number of files on advances on unemployment benefits in the OMCWs is increasing. That is nothing new either. I suppose you also find it regrettable that the OMCWs should finance the trade union contributions. Are you aware that the Auxiliary Cash is still not optimally accessible? In the meantime, what steps have you taken to meet this, in addition to the additional recruitments? What further steps will you take? Do you have recent figures on the delay in dealing with the unemployment benefits files, which can confirm the decreasing trend? The figures would be on the right track. Are any further measures being taken to speed up the process of catching up?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u101	During certain periods, access to the offices of the Auxiliary Cash Office for unemployment benefits is limited in accordance with government guidelines, with the aim of limiting the spread of the coronavirus. However, this is clearly a situation of force majeure. In the case of late payments of benefits, the social security institution has the possibility to apply to the OMCW. However, it remains a free choice whether or not to join a union. In that sense, there is therefore no violation of the rights of the social insured persons who rely on the OMCW. Article 57 of the OCMW Act provides that the OCMW itself is responsible for providing services to persons and families. The decision to make advances instead of paying the trade union contributions so that the unemployed can be helped through another payout institution is a decision of the OMCW. The OMCW is the only one who can decide on the payment of the trade union contribution. As of 1 July 2021, half of HVW's counters have been physically opened to receive customers. The HRW has also revived the UNIPROC procedure. UNIPROC procedure is the result of a cooperation agreement between the National Employment Service, the OMCWs and the Payout Organisation to reduce advances on unemployment benefits by the OMCWs. In addition, the HVW engages in dialogue with the OCMWs in order to improve cooperation. As I have already explained on previous questions, various initiatives and measures have been taken in the context of the corona crisis to improve the functioning of the HVW in the short and long term, such as automation, staff redeployment and digitisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u102	Thank you for the clarifications. I don't bring old news; it's about fairly recent events. The OMCWs have the autonomy to pay advances or to charge the trade union contribution. That's a choice of the OCMWs. At the same time, for example, social assistants have difficulties in contacting the Auxiliaries. We still have to take that to heart. It shouldn't be a problem. It is acceptable if a social assistant has to call or e-mail one time, but he should eventually be able to get in touch with the Hulpkas. The UNIPROC agreement will be very important. I'll also reconnect the information. We all have to play our part in that. I will also ask the OMCW why it is chosen to pay the trade union contribution instead of advance payments, or why both are being made. It may also be that in the long term both have begun to do so because it takes too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u103	Madam President, Mrs Moscufo, the study to which you refer is in line with the experiments carried out with a collective reduction in working time in a Scandinavian country. This time, these are two large-scale applications in the Reykjavik municipal administration and in the national administration. A total of 2,500 workers were involved. It was mainly a question of moving from a 40-hour week to a 35- or 36-hour week, without loss of salary. As the previous examples mention Swedish retirement homes, this is still an application in the public sector. The conclusion is again that this has a positive effect on job satisfaction and, in particular, on work-life balance. Of course, this result is not so surprising. After all, working less means more time and space for other activities. In addition, the study indicates that the productivity and services provided have remained the same or even improved. This is measured labour productivity in the public sector. It is difficult to translate it into macroeconomic indicators of the value of goods produced (business figures) divided by labour costs, as is common in international studies. The most interesting conclusion is that in order to succeed in such an experiment, a collective reduction in working time must be accompanied by clear changes in the organisation of work, for example, fewer and more effective meetings. This aspect is not currently considered as a condition or criterion for obtaining reductions from the ONSS for the collective reduction of working time in Belgium. With regard to the current system of reduction of the ONSS contribution for collective reduction of working time, I have asked ONSS to make an analysis of it, and I look forward to the result in order to see what improvements can be made to the current system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u104	Minister, I note that you are well-documented and that you knew what I wanted to address. I will not repeat the benefits of reducing working time in this experience. You point out that this is happening in the public sector. That's right, but this sector concerns a lot of people. Burnout, stress at work, reconciliation of private and professional life also affect all these public service workers. We believe that starting this process in the public sector is important in order to set an example for the private sector. I feel like you're open to the idea. But what bothers me is that you seem to be heading in the opposite direction to reducing working time by allowing an increase in overtime. It only worsens people's health. It is quite the opposite of sharing so that everyone can work in good conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u105	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, my department is currently preparing a draft KB on this subject. The draft provides for a new increase in benefits of 2.4 % for a single worker living alone with one or more dependent children, irrespective of the motive of the 1/5th time loan, for the 1/5th time loan. For the 1/10th parental leave, the allowance is increased for a single resident worker with one or more dependent children, which makes it half the benefit of the 1/5th parental leave. The 1/10th parental leave was introduced by the Royal Decree of 9 May 2019 and entered into force on 1 June 2019. The Royal Decree provides that the amount for the interruption benefits of 1/10th parental leave shall be half the amount for the withdrawal of 1/5th parental leave. Since the increase for the 1/10th parental leave did not take place in the Royal Decree of 28 May 2019 for the employee who lives exclusively with one or more dependent children, it is now being adapted. The measure will enter into force on 1 July 2021, in accordance with the opinion of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u106	Minister, it is a good thing that you want to deliver on the opinions of the social partners. This is what you are doing today with their proposal to increase benefits for single parents with a child's burden. It is also logical that we should do so, because many single parents are often unable to take leave today, because they are on their own and cannot afford to fall back on a small benefit. The payment for a full-time loan is 607 euros today. That is very little, so it is good that we are taking the step to increase the benefit for the time-credit for single parents. The first step was taken at the time by Kris Peeters for parental leave, so it is important that we do so now for the time loan too. Hopefully we can go even further in this area. I have put forward a proposal for a directive on the granting of leave in accordance with the wishes of the Scandinavian countries, where up to 80% of wages and even more are paid. It is necessary to think about that for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u107	As I explained in response to your earlier question, all levels of government will have to make efforts to achieve the target of an employment rate of 80%. It concerns both the EU, federal and regional authorities, up to and including the local level. They will have to take action on their own and in cooperation with each other and the social partners. The relaunch plan we have submitted to the European Commission will play an important role in this. As you know, the plan has now been approved by the European Commission. After the Council's approval, the plan must enable a strong recovery of our economy and our labour market. In addition, we will organise an employment conference every year. The first takes place in September 2021 and is devoted to the end-of-life issue. I also repeat that the federal government, within its own areas of competence, will assume its responsibility, as the government agreement also shows. For example, we will take various measures to encourage training, including through an individual training account and the introduction of an individual right to training. The tax system is also further modernised to make work more attractive. In addition, particular attention will be paid to the introduction of vulnerable groups into the labour market, in particular for people with a living wage, long-term sick and people with disabilities. As mentioned above, discrimination will also be combated more vigorously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u108	Minister, we see that the major social dossiers are being moved to the autumn. So it promises to be a particularly hot autumn. More and more we see a socio-economic fault within your government. Your liberal government partners don't like making more debts. In the meantime, the OECD has also warned Belgium that it is time to address the growing public debt. We fear that there is no fundamental plan for the revenue side to ensure the affordability of the ageing population. Of course you get money from the welfare envelope, from VAT and from excise duties; we know that story. But the rest must also be paid. We need to boost employment to ensure the affordability of the ageing population. We await your initiatives for this. Strange is that in Flanders people are shouting for some profiles. The labour market has a fundamental problem, but you do not want to see it. As long as you can count on Flanders to pay the invoices, you will actually benefit from doing nothing. Measures to boost employment should therefore be regionalised according to the Flemish Interest. Not only the burdens, but also the benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u109	Madam President, Minister, just recently, on 9 July, you announced a forum to invite all stakeholders in the platform economy to submit proposals aimed at improving working conditions for people working through platforms in very precarious conditions, as well as improving social protection. The platform aims to get an overview of diversity. We all know bicycle couriers, but the platform economy is actually very diverse. It is therefore a broad participation path, with an evaluation of current working conditions. The objective is to achieve better working conditions and a fair wage. Ultimately, this should result in legislation by 2022. Minister, can you explain more about the course of the forum, where it will take place and what the timing is? How will the communication go? How am I supposed to see this participation path? In my text I also asked for an evaluation of the employment relationship law, but you have already answered this in response to another question. To what extent has the forum and the path of participation already been discussed within the government? What results will this ultimately lead to?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u110	Madam President, Ms Vanrobaeys, the participation platform will be launched in September. The discussions will focus on platforms that we organise through an order app, with users, restaurant owners or traders, individual employees and collectively organised employees, but also platform organizers or service providers will be invited to participate and engage in conversation. The forum will be based on the workinginthearts.be platform around the status of cultural workers and will also operate through the federal platform myopinion.belgium.be. We will also record links to external content, research articles, documentaries and so on because we want the platform to become a source of information and a virtual meeting place. Since the platform economy is digital, I think it is logical that the consultation should take this form as well and therefore be easily accessible via a smartphone. It will be widely publicised, in particular through social media. This is essential for the dissemination to all the target groups involved. As you know, the social partners were asked in April to give their opinion by October. The consultation platform is an instrument enabling the evaluation of labour relations legislation, in particular in the specific area of the platform economy. Nor will the more traditional channels be neglected. There is a need for dialogue and consultation on this issue. I cannot, of course, anticipate what will emerge from the various consultations, but I can assure you that it is my ambition to ensure good working conditions and better social protection for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but also for this initiative. I have been saying for years that technological progress should not lead to nineteenth-century working conditions. This forum will contribute to this. It is true that there is a lot of diversity. It is good to get input from stakeholders and employees from this diversity and those different platforms and to include them in the evaluation. In any case, you will find in me a supporter to make that forum known, both digitally and through traditional channels, because I come on the street a lot and talk to bike messengers and freelancers. I will certainly appeal to many people to provide input on that forum from their own experience through the platform economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u112	Madam Chair, may I ask for a short break because I have to make an urgent phone call? Furthermore, I should like to inform Mrs Vindevoghel that I have not received from my administration the elements of the answer to her question. There was a whole series of encrypted elements. If she wants to, she can turn it into a written question. Responses will follow as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u113	Mrs Vindevoghel, do you agree to turn your question No 55019882C into a written question? In this case, I would point out to you that there is the procedure of Parliament but also the Dermagne cabinet which applies to send a reply by e-mail very quickly. I imagine that's what he's going to do, send you as soon as possible all the items you've asked for. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u114	Yes. The problem is that the minister has not yet received the information. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u115	Yes, he didn't have the time, he said, to compile all the information since his administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u116	All right. This will eventually be done in September. I just wanted to point out that the situation is pretty catastrophic for the workers. That's why I wanted to ask the question, but if he doesn't have an answer, that's how it is. If he can already answer me in writing, I can look at what I will do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u117	All right. Thank you. That way, we don't keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u118	Mrs Moscufo, in September 2020, an agreement had been reached between the social partners to assimilate the days of corona unemployment in the calculation of the holiday money. They are currently discussing it, as well as possible compensation. As you know, it is my practice to question them, to wait for their return and, once an agreement has been sealed, to do everything possible to implement it, I will abide by this jurisprudence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u119	Mr Minister, we are a little bored, since you say that you are waiting for the agreement of the social partners. However, I do not understand well. Indeed, this is a royal decree that you drafted to remedy it, so that workers could benefit from this assimilation in order to be entitled to their leave, since they were in no way responsible for their temporary unemployment. Therefore, I do not understand why the assimilation has been prolonged twice, especially since the discussion is now blocked. I hear your comments well, but I hope that this problem will be resolved and that the arrears will also be taken into account. Indeed, it would not be normal for people not to be entitled to their days off next year and not to receive a correct price simply because the order - which we supported - was not properly applied. We'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u120	Minister, my question refers to a survey conducted by the FGTB Division of Service Titles, the CSC Food and Services and the CGSLB of 1,673 caregivers between May 19 and June 14 of this year. The aim was to know the attitude of employers towards vaccination leave, and it turns out that the survey is really not good. It can be seen that less than half of the domestic workers who received a call for vaccination had sufficient time to do so, and 39% of them were not paid during their absence when they went to be vaccinated. The hours during which they were vaccinated were recorded as authorized absences or leave without pay. They had to pick up their hours or postpone their vaccination appointment. Some have even been put into temporary unemployment. Similarly, 60% of these workers, who had not yet received a summons, did not receive any information from their employer on the terms of this vaccination leave. The unions have concluded that employers' abuse or attempts to circumvent this vaccination leave is intended to avoid paying a wage to these domestic workers. The situation is really problematic, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of purchasing power. In this sector, it is these workers who have put themselves at risk in order to continue to work in very poor conditions. That's not the case everywhere. In general, these workers deserve our full support. What do you think of this situation? How can we solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u121	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, please be aware that the Employment FPS did not wait for this investigation to take proactive action. On 26 March, the rules were already explained on the website so that employers and employees could verify the exact obligations of vaccination leave. So far, the Labour Inspectorate - Directorate-General for Social Law Supervision of the SPF - has taken control measures both proactive and reactive, when on the basis of information brought to its knowledge or observed, it could conclude that the assimilation to a small unemployment as regulated under Article 30, § 1 of the Act of 3 July 1978 on the contract of employment was not respected. Of course, it adopted this attitude independently of the sector in which these rules were not properly respected. I do not have exact figures on the distribution of its interventions in the various economic sectors, but it seems, however, that the service securities sector has asked proportionally more interventions than some other sectors. Cabinets, both at the federal and regional levels, consult regularly, as do federal and regional inspection services, always with a view to a more effective and efficient approach to social fraud and/or other abuses. As you rightly pointed out in your question, it is the federated entities that ultimately decide on the attitude to be taken with regard to the information provided by the inspection services. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to provide you with information on the inspection methodology developed by mutual agreement. But we can, of course, come back to this issue very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-13-definitief-55-commissie-ic553x.u122	Mr Minister, first of all, let me react to the fact that you are not in a position to provide me with information on the inspection methodology because it falls within the scope of other powers, and to ask you to be pro-active in this area. Indeed, when measures are taken at the federal level and certain matters fall within the competence of the Regions, it would be interesting to make a direct synthesis. I hear your good intentions, but we can see on the ground that good legislation, good rules, good intentions are not enough. As I have already said, this is a sector where many regulations are often flouted. I think there is also a need to strengthen controls in relation to this. Posting it on a site is not always enough. Consideration must also be given to how to empower and empower trade union delegations so that they can fight on the ground and continue to defend these workers. Thank you.
