ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u1	The public committee meeting was opened at 10.15 a.m. and chaired by Marie-Colline Leroy. The public committee meeting will be opened at 10.15 a.m. and chaired by Marie-Colline Leroy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u2	Madam President, Minister, we have recently discussed his annual report with the Ombudsman on pensions. In that annual report he says that the current system of pensions, whereby the pension of self-employed persons for the starting year is revised about four years after retirement on the basis of a fictitious income, is not reasonable. The Ombudsman requests pensions from the legislator to opt for two possible slopes in the calculation of the self-employed pension. In other words, it would be possible to opt for a final pension calculation which would opt for the last years of career to take account of a rebuttable or non-rebuttable presumption, so that a final decision could be taken before the retirement date and should not be reviewed later. In other words, a system whereby a provisional pension decision is made before the date of retirement, whereby the calculation is made on the basis of the income appropriate for provisional contributions for the last years, which is subsequently revised on the basis of the actual income earned, if known. Minister, you have read the Ombudsman's annual report on pensions. Which of these two slopes is your favorite and why? Do you have any other slopes? Have you discussed this with the Minister for Pensions, as you may be working together on these issues? Are you planning to implement a new system? If so, when and how will you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u3	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, the Ombudsman is indeed proposing the two options, each with benefits and inconveniences. Option 1 offers the advantage that the pension can be definitively calculated before the pension starts. The selfemployed person therefore receives a final calculation of his pension which is no longer subject to revision at the time when the missing final income is known. This option has multiple inconveniences. For example, the pension for the last year is calculated on a fictitious income, which could result in a lower amount of pension or a higher pension for the self-employed who will not have paid a contribution. The option once again calls into question the importance for self-employed persons to pay regularisation contributions for the years that are not regularised at the time the pension takes effect. This abolition would not be fiscally neutral. A possible slope in this respect would be to re-introduce the possibility for pensioners who so wish to apply for non-regularisation, which freezes the pension amount calculated on the provisional income. Option 2 is very close to the current system, which consists of making an initial calculation based on the known, definitive income and the revenue on which provisional contributions were paid for the years for which the final income is not yet known. Once the final income is known and the regularisation contributions are paid, the pension is recalculated on the basis of all final income. The pensioner therefore receives two decisions: first a provisional calculation and then a new calculation based on all final income. As regards contributions, the selfemployed person may therefore be liable for regularisation contributions after retirement. Option 2 would be to make a correction to the current scheme for the year in which the pension takes effect, using, as proposed by the Ombudsman, the final income of this year, year n, and no longer that of year n-1 as is currently the case. The inconvenience of this measure is that an additional year has to be waited before a final decision can be made to the retired self-employed person. A third option could be to recalculate the pension after the payment of the regularisation contributions for each year that still needs to be regularised at the time the pension takes effect, in order to take faster account of the payments made by the pensioner. The inconvenience of this latter option is that it would lead to additional pension calculations. This would make the mechanism unclear and opaque for the citizen. As you can see, each of the proposed options has different inconveniences. The current system respects the philosophy of the 2015 reform of social contributions and allows to avoid multiple pension decisions or a late final decision for the self-employed person concerned. There is a need for careful consideration of all changes to the current system, in particular as regards the need for pension reform during this term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u4	Minister, I understand from your answer that, as I said, you still have a third option, but it is not without disadvantages. So it has not yet been decided, not even by you or your cabinet, in which direction we can carry out a review. You are referring to the pension reform that is coming to this legislature, but my question is whether this will be done together with the pension reform in September or whether it will be looked at separately. Can you still tell me that? Otherwise, we have no perspective to answer the people when it will be adjusted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u5	It is impossible to go into this in depth already.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u6	You did not say when the pension reform for the self-employed would be implemented. Is that in September, too, or later?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u7	For now, it's not clear yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u8	Minister, I will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u9	Madam President, it is true that single caregivers are not subject to the social status of self-employed persons until January 1 of the year in which they are 20 years old. Consequently, they are not liable for social security contributions for their professional activity as a caregiver, and therefore do not constitute pension rights. Moreover, since these years do not give rise to pension rights, they cannot be taken into account for access to the early pension or to the minimum pension. Moreover, there is no possibility of paying voluntary contributions for those who wish to acquire pension rights. In the 2020 Annual Report, the Pension Ombudsman notes that there is no possibility of contributing and therefore of opening up pension rights for single carers before the year of their twentieth birthday. He wondered about the fairness of this situation, given the conditions for access to the early pension. He did not, however, propose solutions. With regard to the establishment of a status for caregivers before their twentieth birthday for the future, an important element must be taken into account. Since 1 January 1997, the right to family allowances has been granted unconditionally until 31 August of the year in which the child is eighteen years old. However, the administrative case-law recognizes that there is no possible subjugation as an aid in the context of the social status of self-employed persons for persons who are entitled to benefit from family allowances, i.e. without limitation. As a result, coverage as a caregiver could only take place from the third quarter of the year of eighteen years at the earliest. On the other hand, imposing the social status of self-employed persons for single caregivers before the 1st of January of their 20th birthday means that these caregivers will have to pay social contributions earlier, which can potentially increase the financial burden of a family, particularly in the case you mentioned with a young person working on the farm or in the business of his parents. A balance must therefore be struck in order to allow young single caregivers to open up pension rights without burdening the family's financial burdens. In conclusion, if any thought were to be given to the subject, this could only be considered for future carers and not for those who currently wish to obtain an early retirement pension and use the years in which they worked as carers before 1 January of their twentieth birthday to gain easier access to the early retirement pension, particularly in view of the difficulties in establishing a regularisation system and in providing evidence after so many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u10	Minister, thank you for this very precise and clear answer. You're talking about a balance. There is a gap of just under one year between the 18 years (third quarter) and the 20 years. I also understand the idea of not grappling family finances with a direct deficit. But these young people must be clearly informed. When you're 19 years old, pension is not the main concern. We can very much understand that. However, it is important to know the implications. It is when you end your career that you say to yourself: "It's a shame, if I had known from the beginning, I might have chosen the assessment, or I would have been advised to choose the contribution." In my view, clear information on the implications of a possible balance to be found – why not a voluntary contribution – could be a middle ground. I imagine that this is also part of the reflections that will take place from September onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u11	Madam President, Minister, during the exchange of views with the Ombudsmen for Pensions in the Committee of 11 May 2021, the Ombudsman replied to our question on the issue of pensions for assisting spouses for the period before 2005. He indicated that assisting spouses or legally cohabiting partners, mostly women, were not at the time required to join the maxi-status for self-employed persons and therefore did not build up pension rights. However, it was possible for them to regularise that period of activity before the introduction of the maxi-status by 1 January 2010. The Ombudsman indicated that the rules and conditions governing them were very restrictive and that they had hardly come to the attention of the public. Consequently, few interested parties were aware of this. Few have therefore entered into this possibility of regularisation, which is regrettable. Minister, I have the following questions for you. Can you indicate for how many persons the regularization was carried out effectively? Following the suggestion made by the ombudsmen for pensions, will you make regularisation possible again in order to ensure a better pension for the assisting spouses?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u12	Madam President, Ms Samyn, five assisting spouses submitted an application before 1 January 2010 to regularise the period during which they performed an activity as assisting spouses for the introduction of a mandatory maxi-status on 1 July 2005. Four applications were refused because the applicants did not meet the required conditions. The fifth application was approved, but the applicant never paid the regularisation contributions because he considered that they were too high in relation to the pension income he could expect. In reply to your second question, I can say that several actors believe that a solution needs to be found. In addition to the Ombudsman who gave his opinion in the Chamber, this is also the case for the representative self-employed organisations and the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. I also believe that serious consideration should be given to the subject and that solutions should be found for assisting spouses. The slope of a new system of regularisation for the years of assisting spouses for 2005 will be studied, as will other slopes. We will have to find an answer that is most adapted to the situation. The reflections will be conducted in close consultation with the representative self-employed organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u13	Mr Minister, I am afraid of your answer: five requests are very little. There is also a need for good communication in this area. Of course, the applications must be correct, because you say that four out of five applications were refused. That's hallucinating. It's good that new slopes are being studied. Such a system would certainly be useful, because we receive many questions from assisting spouses who are difficult to make ends meet. It is therefore a good thing that this is brought to the attention of the House. Few people seem to have signed up and the system is not sufficiently recognizable. As I said, there are daily problems with this matter. We receive daily emails about it, especially from women, due to a lack of good social security during part of their career. In any case, it is a good thing that you are taking action, and I will not fail to question you about it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u14	Minister, we have already discussed the possibility of pension discrimination for self-employed people in committee and in plenary, including a question from Mr Vanrobaeys in mid-May. Self-employed persons can obtain exemption from RSZ contributions due to the corona crisis, which is a good measure in itself, but they lose pension rights in case the exemption applies to more than two quarters. This issue was also raised in the annual report of the Pension Office. The Ombudsman rang the alarm bell and sued the problem in the media. He added that self-employed workers could possibly remedy the consequences of that exemption by regularising the exempted quarters through the payment of a redemption premium within five years. The problem is, however, that many do not know that. It is good in itself that people can be exempted from contributions for some time, for example if they have too little income from corona. However, if you do this for more than two quarters without regularising afterwards, you will not build up pension rights. One does retain the other rights. Would you, Minister, perhaps better inform the self-employed about the consequences of the RSZ exemptions on the pension and the solution that is now being offered? Of course, you can also propose a different solution. In any case, it is particularly important to inform those concerned. Can a good information campaign be set up to better inform the self-employed about the consequences of the exemption and the existing possibility of regularisation? Is that what you're planning on doing? How do you see such an information campaign? Is it taken care of by your administration, in cooperation with the social secretariats? You don't see it that way, do you? Do you have any concrete plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u15	Mrs Lanjri, the self-employed are generally well aware of the fact that they do not build up pension rights for the quarters for which they have been granted an exemption from contributions. Moreover, in the case of exemption from the regularisation contributions, the contribution supplement following the notification of professional income by the tax authorities, while the provisional contributions were paid, pension rights are granted on the basis of the provisional contributions paid. That information should be specifically communicated at the time when self-employed persons apply for exemption. The information can also be found on the websites of the RSVZ and the funds. A self-employed person always has the possibility to pay the exempted contributions later, in so far as they are not yet statute-barred. This is subject to a period of five years. It is up to the social insurance funds to inform them. In the letter on the exemption decision, they must also inform their member that it is always possible to pay the exempted contributions later, in so far as they are not yet statute-barred, and thus to safeguard their pension rights. The letter clarifies that the application for exemption from contributions is regarded as a debt recognition and runs counter to the limitation period. Some time before the expiry of the limitation period, the fund must send a new letter of information, in which the self-employed person is reminded that, where he or she wishes to safeguard his or her pension rights, it is still possible for him or her to pay voluntarily the amount which has been the subject of an exemption. In addition, the funds must comply with the general disclosure obligation to all self-employed persons. In the maturity messages sent, they shall include a general visible information containing mandatory following elements. Firstly, selfemployed persons who would have obtained one or more quarters' exemption in the past may, in the context of the safeguarding of their pension rights and in so far as the contributions in question are not yet statuted, either regularise the exempted quarters or stop their limitation period if they would later wish to pay the exempt contributions. If they wish to make use of this possibility, they should contact the fund. This information can also be found on the website of various funds. That is why I do not think it is necessary to launch a general information campaign on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. From your previous reply, I remembered that at the end of April more than 80,000 self-employed people have already applied for such an exemption for at least one quarter. So it's about a huge group. You refer to the social insurance funds in particular for the purposes of the obligation to provide information. I hope that sufficient information will be provided. The Ombudsman's inclusion of the issue in his annual report, the alarm bell and the media indicate that apparently many self-employed people are still asking him why their contribution is not included. In itself, I have no problem with your statement that the information should mainly be provided through the social insurance funds, but I would ask you to really press the social insurance funds to inform those concerned, even more than today, so that no one can say that they are not aware. Now, apparently, that is still a problem, because otherwise the Ombudsman would not be calling the alarm bell. I am counting on you to raise the matter when you get back in touch with them, and that will undoubtedly happen regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u17	Mrs. Lanjri, you're right. Your idea is excellent and we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u18	This question is somewhat in line with the previous question. As mentioned by the previous speaker, the self-employed who applied for an exemption from social contributions in the context of corona may be surprised. Not only are their income from the period of the exemption not included in the calculation of the later pension benefit, they can also be less rapid on early retirement. It is true, on the other hand, that a worker who became temporarily unemployed during the corona crisis did build up pension rights and the inactivity thus had no effect on the calculation of his pension amount or on the possibility of retiring where appropriate. The Ombudsman's pensions came to this conclusion. All this, of course, has to do with the discussion around the treated periods. In contrast to unemployment insurance, the traditional right of bridging is not treated in the same way. However, both social insurance schemes are covered by social contributions. Are you adding to the Ombudsman's pensions that there is, through corona, a discrimination between the system of employees and that of the self-employed? Have you had a discussion on this issue with Mrs Lalieux, the Minister for Pensions? Has this consultation led, if any, to certain new insights or objectives? Are you planning, in conjunction with Mrs Lalieux, a fair and harmonising reform that strengthens the share of the years actually worked and reduces the impact of the periods treated in retirement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u19	Mr van der Donkt, it is true that the self-employed do not build up pension rights for the quarters for which they have requested an exemption. However, they retain the rights to health insurance and there is a possibility of regularising the exempted quarters retrospectively within five years with a pay-off premium. There is no provision for equivalence for the right to bridge the crisis. The self-employed must either pay the social contributions or apply for their postponement or apply for an exemption. For the classical bridging right, an equalisation of the pension is provided for up to four quarters, starting from the fourth quarter of 2020, for pensions starting for the first time on 1 January 2021, in so far as the event giving rise to the granting of the classic bridging right, bankruptcy or cessation due to economic difficulties occurred between 1 April 2020 and 30 June 2021. As I have said on several occasions in my replies to parliamentary questions, there is a need for careful consideration of the issue of the granting of pension rights to self-employed persons for the periods for which an exemption from contribution was granted. This could lead to discrimination between the self-employed and possible abuse. Moreover, such an award would have a significant budgetary impact on the social status of the self-employed. At the moment, therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to grant pension rights without consideration to the self-employed with an exemption. With regard to your question about a pension-building reform that strengthens the share of the effective years worked and reduces the impact of similar years, I can only remind you that the government agreement provides that in September 2021 a pension reform will be submitted by the Minister of Pensions to the Council of Ministers for the financial and social sustainability of the system. The coalition agreement does not provide for a global reflection on the impact of the periods treated with respect to the periods actually performed. However, provision is made for the minimum pension to be subject to a condition of actual employment, possibly excluding periods treated as such, or to an equivalent measure. In addition, I would like to stress that, according to a study by the Federal Planning Office in 2016, the proportion of the treated periods for the people who recently retired was higher in the civil servants' and employees' systems than in the self-employed's system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u20	Minister, of course we are also looking forward to the major pension reform, but I hear that you are not planning to think together with Minister Lalieux about the impact of the treated periods. You refer to the coalition agreement. That is, of course, very unfortunate. I would be surprised if you, as a liberal, did not wish to engage in that thinking exercise. The coat rack in the government agreement that you may be able to use to eliminate the inconsistencies in our pension system is the harmonisation of the various pension systems. In any case, I look forward to the big promised pension reform in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u21	Minister, we have discussed in this committee many times the need for corona support for self-employed people who have suffered hard during this corona crisis. As in any system, there are occasionally people who abuse aid, as in the case of the corona measures. The Flemish Innovation and Entrepreneurship Agency, the VLAIO, has already recovered nearly 36 million in corona aid granted to companies that frauded. A total of EUR 63.5 million has so far been sent out to recover. A great deal of money will therefore be recovered. It's a good thing people act decisively. At federal level, too, efforts are being made to tackle abuse. The employees' representatives called the alarm earlier this year because they were worried about fraud with the double right of bridging for the self-employed. For example, certain self-employed workers would have indicated that their business was closed while in reality they were working to receive this benefit. You yourself indicated that you would use different control lines to prevent the abuse of corona aid by some self-employed workers. It is therefore essential that we closely monitor this federal system and tackle fraud and abuse of corona support measures. What specific actions are you taking to recover the wrongly granted corona aid to companies? Are you working with the regions to deal with this abuse? Is information exchanged with the regions? Both federal and regional aid measures were developed. Problems may arise in the same companies, employees and the self-employed. How many abuses of corona aid by companies and self-employed persons have already been identified? How much of that corona aid has been recovered since March 2020, the start of the corona crisis? I would like to receive an overview per month from March 2020 until now, if possible. How much corona aid that has been misused will still have to be recovered in the future? How will you ensure that future abuses of support measures for businesses and self-employed persons are avoided? Do you think that the renewal of the right of bridging will be sufficient to prevent or limit abuse in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u22	Mrs Lanjri, the social security funds are responsible for the recovery of undue payments. In 2020, they recovered an amount of more than EUR 125 million from the recovery of the temporary crisis measures on the bridging right. Since their introduction, the granting of the bridging measures has been the subject of three control lines: a first control by the social insurance funds, a second control by the audit of the funds and a third control by the RSVZ's Directorate for Fair Competition (ECL). Explaining the exact course of the audit would take too much time. I have a written explanation which I can now give you. Where there is a suspicion of fraud, an investigation shall be carried out by the Executive Board of the RSVZ. In general, two types of fraud, abuse or anomalies have been identified: on the one hand, cases specifically related to the granting of the crisis measures, for example, the fact that one is fictitious as a self-employed person without ever having engaged in an independent activity, but with the sole aim of benefiting from the crisis measures, or the fact that one uses a false identity in the context of an application for a crisis measure, and on the other hand, the more classical fraud and abuse detected following the submission of an application for a crisis measure, for example persons who have worked without being affiliated and who join in the corona crisis to receive the benefit. The cooperation will allow the different actors to adapt the various verification and control processes on the basis of experience and developments. For example, they have recently strengthened a priori control by introducing fraud indicators in order to quickly detect suspicious cases. Cooperation is a key element of the current and future management of the fight against fraud concerning temporary crisis measures on the right of bridging. The cases of abuse and fraud are, of course, sanctioned. Depending on the situation, the fund will recover the temporary crisis measures on the right to bridge, regularise the situation or impose an administrative penalty. Where the situation so requires, the file shall be transferred to the judiciary, resulting in criminal sanctions. I have given you an annex on this. In 2020, EUR 125 million of benefits were recovered and EUR 133 million still to be recovered. In 2021, EUR 28 million of benefits were recovered and EUR 34 million still to be recovered. I can also give you a table of figures on this. Since the beginning of the crisis and until 31 May 2021, the ECL Executive Board has also opened 6.819 investigations into the temporary crisis measures. 3.043 have already been closed. Of these 3,043 closed studies, 1,078 had consequences. This represents a direct return estimated at EUR 3,437,405. The RSVZ's Fair Competition Directorate also concluded a cooperation protocol with VLAIO and with the Walloon public service. This will enable these institutions to exchange information among themselves on cases of fraud related to the temporary crisis measures. The operational implementation of this Protocol will enable each of these institutions to develop new scenarios to identify the suspicious profiles and further strengthen the action against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u23	Minister, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive answer. It was so extensive that I will receive some in writing. You want to give me a note on the procedure and a table of figures. You cannot give them to me now because I am working at home and you are in Parliament. I propose that this be done through the secretariat so that we can look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u24	Question No 55018414C by Mrs Evita Willaert is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u25	Mr Piedboeuf, in the preamble, I would like to point out that the provisions relating to self-employment are not to be confused with those relating to the calculation of contributions. 1. Article 5 of Royal Decree 38 of 27 July 1967 on the social status of self-employed workers provides that "journalists, press correspondents and persons enjoying copyright shall not be subject to the present decree if they already enjoy, in any capacity whatsoever, a social status at least equivalent to that organized by this decree". This is a provision derogating from liability and requires compliance with two cumulative conditions: - to carry out an activity as a journalist or press correspondent, or to enjoy copyright; - the activity in question must also be carried out in parallel with the exercise of a main activity which provides the person concerned with social security coverage, either in the employee's scheme or in the scheme of officials or when the persons concerned safeguard their rights to the social benefits guaranteed by that scheme. 2. Subjection is the direct consequence of the exercise of an independent professional activity. It is therefore not possible for the same activity to derogate from the liability under Article 5 of Royal Decree No 38 and to be a taxable person on the basis of Article 3(1) of the same Decree. Thus, for example, the graphic designer, photographer or independent lecturer who sells his drawings, photos or written material made available at conferences carries out an activity which gives rise to the subjection on the basis of Article 3(1) of Royal Decree No 38. The occupational activity concerned therefore falls within the scope of Article 3(1) of Royal Decree 38. 3. The enjoyment of copyright as referred to in Article 5 shall only concern property rights connected with the exploitation of the work by third parties to whom the said property rights have been assigned. Copyright then constitutes the additional remuneration to which the artist is entitled as soon as his creation is exploited by the buyer or another third party through reproduction, public representation, adaptation or translation. These rules are therefore not in contradiction with those laid down in the Act of 30 June 1994. As a reminder, the 1994 reform intended by the legislator is precisely that the author's property rights are dissociated from his works, not all of which relate to copyrights. Thus, the provisions of Article 5 apply only to a part of the property rights, i.e. those relating to the exploitation of the work by third parties and not to all the property rights. The copyrights concerned are therefore those which constitute the counterpart of this exploitation by a third person. There is no lack of knowledge of the provisions of the Act of 30 June 1994. Legislation relating to the social status of self-employed persons is not required to take into account all the concepts relating to the property rights recognized in the 1994 Act. The Courts of the Judicial Order which were required to rule on this question, not only in 1984 but also in the years following the entry into force of the 1994 Act, did not in fact consider that article 5 disregarded the ordinary law or the 1994 Act. Nor have they found any lack of knowledge of the rules in force, as applied by the competent administration. Thus, Article 5 of Royal Decree No 38 therefore addresses a problem of taxation and not a problem concerning the basis of this calculation of contributions, which is governed by other provisions, namely those of Article 11 of the same Royal Decree. The professional income to be taken into account for the calculation of the contributions shall, pursuant to Article 11, be those fixed by the administration of direct contributions or, in the event of a dispute, those recognized at the end of the dispute by the authority or court seised of the tax action. Consequently, income classified as self-employed profit by the finance administration, the only competent in this field, from an occupational activity which does not reverse the presumption of entitlement to the social status of self-employed workers is included in the basis for calculating social contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u26	Minister, thank you for this very clear and precise answer to the question I asked you. In my opinion, it will also avoid much discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u27	Madam President, I refer to my question as tabled, but I do not want the minister to respond orally because it is a question of quoting figures. If he wants to send them to me, I feel satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u28	Mr President, I would like to convey the figures to you with great pleasure, but they can also be made available to the committee. We will give them to you in our own hands and we will also forward them to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u29	Minister, thank you. Of course, I didn't want to hide them from the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u30	Mr President, both self-employed persons in their main and supplementary capacity must join a social insurance fund and pay social security contributions. Unlike the self-employed as principal, there is no minimum contribution for the self-employed as a supplementary activity. Self-employed persons engaged in a supplementary activity must not pay contributions if their net taxable income is less than €1,553.58. From 1 553.58 euros, they pay contributions of 20.5 % on their income up to 60 638.48 euros or 14.16% on their income from 60 638.46 to 89 361.89 euros. In addition, the costs of managing the social insurance fund are added. A self-employed person starting a supplementary activity pays an interim contribution of 20.5% on a net taxable income of EUR 1,553: EUR 79.62 plus the management costs of the social insurance fund. In principle, he pays this contribution until the end of the third full calendar year, until there is no N-3 reference year. Thereafter, the interim contribution is calculated on the income of the previous three years (reference year N-3). As soon as the tax administration communicates the net taxable income (the real) through the INASTI to the social insurance fund, the final social contributions are calculated on the actual income. If a self-employed supplementary worker has no income in a given year or suffers a loss, no definitive contributions are due for that year and the provisional contributions paid will be refunded. If necessary, the self-employed person may apply for a reduction in social security contributions during the contribution year in which he or she realizes a loss in order not to have to pay provisional social contributions during that contribution year. When regularising its income, i.e. when real income is known through the tax administration, there will therefore no longer be a refund.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u31	Minister, thank you for your clear and precise answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u32	Madam President, Minister, I tabled this question as a written question on 5 January 2021, but it has still not been answered. Above all, I am asking for a number of figures. I therefore refer to the text of my question as tabled. If your answer contains a lot of figures, it is good for me if you just forward the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u33	Mrs Dierick, as far as the figures are concerned, I have detailed annexes, which I will provide to you. Students can engage in an independent activity and have a specific system in this respect since 2017. In 2017, there were 5,008 students who enjoyed this status. There were 6,083 in 2018, 7,203 in 2019 and 8,027 in 2020. As regards any refusals, the registration of data with the social insurance funds is based on the connection linked to the pursuit of an activity. If there is an independent activity, there must be a connection corresponding to a code to pay contributions. If the conditions relating to the application of the student-self-employed status are not met, the person concerned will either refrain from carrying out the activity and will have no connection or will be affiliated as a self-employed person. There is therefore no refusal in the strict sense of the word. Consequently, neither the RSVZ nor the social insurance funds have this information at their disposal. You also asked about the continuity of activity from the studies. The end date of student self-employed studies is de facto not known by the RSVZ. It is therefore impossible to determine how many student self-employed persons continued their self-employed activity after the end of their studies. I do have a table of information on the situation at the end of 2018 and at the end of 2019. I now come to the impact of the COVID-19 crisis. The table in annex shows the evolution of the number of student self-employed workers per quarter since the third quarter of 2017. The number of student self-employed people has continued to rise, except in the last quarter of 2018, 2019 and 2020. These figures do not allow any impact of the corona crisis on the number of student self-employed. As regards the right of bridging, according to the figures available on 6 February 2021, 84 student self-employed persons received at least one payment from the right to bridge the crisis between March and December 2020. According to the Association of Social Insurance Funds of Self-employed persons there were 335 refusals. The motives are not known. In order to promote the Statute, it is important to be able to promote that specific statute for those who wish to set up their own business during their studies. Both the social insurance funds and the RSVZ have worked towards a clear, precise and uniform communication on the status to all students in the country. A FAQ was also developed, which contains a lot of information for the students. I myself have the opportunity to promote the Statute with targeted actions or events intended for that particular public. We will send you all the announced appendices.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I look forward to the figures I will receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-06-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic521x.u35	This concludes the handling of questions. We will naturally transmit the figures as soon as they reach the secretariat.
