ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u1	Mr President, honourable Member, the DBFM contract and its appendices were made available to the members of the committee shortly after the contract was concluded as part of a confidential consultation. As a matter of principle, I am in favour of maximum transparency. I have already stated this in my policy note. Nevertheless, I cannot commit myself to making the entire case public. The Act of 11 April 1994 on the advertising of the administration has led to the rejection of requests for the consultation of administrative documents of a federal administrative authority where the interest of advertising does not outweigh, inter alia, the protection of the safety of the population and the country, as well as the confidentiality nature of the business or manufacturing information communicated to the authority. This obligation of secrecy is reiterated in Article 13 of the Law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement, under which third parties do not have access to information communicated in confidence by economic operators, including any trade secrets and confidential aspects of tenders. However, I will make sure to identify with the Régie the market elements that fall under this provision in order to see to what extent much of the content could be made accessible. As far as compensation is concerned, the covid pandemic has consequences for all work under way. In order to minimise the risks associated with covid, necessary measures are taken at all construction sites. The Régie is currently examining for all its traditional and PPP projects the possible intervention of the administration. Finally, despite the period of crisis, the construction site is well advanced and the work is still scheduled to be completed by spring 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your answers which, in the end, do not surprise me. I thought you'd cut behind the fact that the entire contract could not be published. The concern is that MPs are considered third parties, while MPs have a constitutional mandate that has been assigned to them. Their task is to monitor the action of the government, especially for projects with a huge budgetary impact, which is precisely the case for Haren's prison - both for its construction and for its maintenance. We're committed to 25 years and it's an extremely important budget. There is room for reflection on greater transparency in the contract. I hear that steps can be taken with the Régie des Bâtiments and I thank you for that. Especially since the chosen contract formula - PPP/DBFM - is problematic. In France, this model was simply abandoned because it prevented the State from exercising its legislative power, from exercising real control, particularly at the budgetary level. I encourage you to consult with the Régie des Bâtiments to see what can be done. Otherwise, I would be obliged, together with my group, to resubmit a text which we had tabled under the previous Parliament and which is intended to request an audit by the Court of Auditors in order to ensure that all transparency is achieved in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, for the past five years and the vote on the Left Side Business Park project in Charleroi, including a boat stop on the banks of Sambre, the 600 FPS Finance agents working at CAE, rue Jean Monnet in the same city, know that their building is doomed to destruction. They have been waiting five years to know what their future destination will be. As the project progresses, the wait is becoming more and more oppressive for them. In February 2020, carrots were even carried out in their parking lot to see if the work could start safely for the solidity of the offices. For several years now, in all the concertation committees and all the CIPPPTs, workers' representatives have been constantly asking the Régie des Bâtiments to find a solution quickly. The Régie replied regularly that there was no urgency and that the marina would not be installed overnight. One of the Régie's representatives even implied several times that it was, moreover, only a rumor that would never be confirmed. In an intervention at the last communal council, we asked the mayor of the city for a clear schedule to give us an idea of the deadline for workers. The answer was, however, scathing: if this boat stop has not yet come into being, it is because the Régie is inactive or, at least, extremely slow in the processing of the file, despite the various reminders that he would never have had to stop addressing him. The situation is therefore critical between a city that does not define a clear schedule and a Régie that does not seem to put its own. As a result, 600 workers will start a sixth year of uncertainty – which is inconceivable! The urgency is there, especially since this work is financed by the ERDF funds. The city cannot therefore wait forever, at the risk of having to repay them. A solution must be found quickly – not in two or three years, but in the coming months. Indeed, this ridiculous situation not only weighs on the 600 workers, but also on the thousands of citizens who regularly travel to these offices to solve contribution problems. Secretary of State, can you tell me what is the status of the work of the Régie des Bâtiments in the processing of this file? What are the deadlines? When and where can workers be displaced?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u4	Mr President, honourable Member, I would like to reassure you that the Régie did not remain inactive in this respect. The Régie des Bâtiments has launched a promotion market in order to identify a potential rehousing in a new location. According to the current schedule, a move to a new site could be planned by the end of 2023, with a lease until December 31, 2031. The tenders received are being analysed. The Régie des Bâtiments awaits the granting of urban planning permits for bidders before applying for their best and final offer. Whatever happens, I will, of course, ensure that the 600 officers occupying the current building are relocated in the best possible conditions and as soon as possible. Finally, an alignment meeting is planned with the city of Charleroi. It is expected to take place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I will share your answer with all the workers who have asked me this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am pleased to come back to a subject which is of particular interest to me: the masterplan of Vottem and the situation of the DAB of the police of Liège. It is because it affects the province of Liège, because it is not only an important economic issue but, above all, an issue for the well-being of all our law enforcement agencies, since, in the long run, they will be able to benefit from new and useful infrastructures. With regard to the realization of phase II of the Masterplan, it is my responsibility that not one but two public contracts (40 million and 60 million respectively) should be awarded for its implementation. Considering the delays already accumulated by this masterplan, can you tell me whether the question of a single-member market has been evaluated and whether such an option would bring the horizon of the move of all the units concerned to this site? At the same time, a few weeks ago, in the context of important negotiations (a notice of strike had indeed been lifted at that time), an agreement had been reached within the negotiating committee to temporarily relocate the DAB of Liège to the premises of Saint-Gilles. In order to achieve this by 1 April, major investments must be made, in particular with regard to the sarcophagus, which must accommodate the weapons of the 135 members of the DAB. What about the public procurement procedures for securing the site and, in particular, the investment in this sarcophagus? More generally, could you give me an idea of the amounts required and a schedule of the improvements to be planned on the Saint-Gilles site? Here are my first questions, which are important for the police forces in the province of Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u7	Mr President, as a Liégeoise, I agree with the considerations of my excellent colleague Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u8	As announced a few weeks ago, the Régie des Bâtiments has carried out the interim reception of Phase 1 of the Masterplan on December 8, 2020. The building has been made available to the federal police and therefore phase 1 is complete. This phase led to the development of the laboratory and CIC. Phase 2 covers all the rest, namely the programme of the needs of more than 22 000 m2 of offices, numerous support functions as well as parking spaces, including a series of demolitions and the complete restructuring of the site. Like the first phase, this second phase will be carried out in the form of a design and build (DAB) project. The file is therefore under development and I can assure you that the Régie des Bâtiments is working actively to ensure that the project is carried out as soon as possible. To date, the schedule for work on the farm is scheduled to begin in 2023. Next, for the conditional tranche, work is expected to be completed between 2026 and 2030, and work on the second conditional tranche is expected to begin in 2028. All buildings are scheduled to be made available by 2032. The date may seem far away, but it is a large-scale project involving an infrastructure of more than 22 000 m2 and which requires specific features. We will do everything possible to speed up the work if conditions permit. In general, as part of the masterplan, the entire site as well as the various buildings are secured more or less significantly, depending on the functions they host and according to the recommendations of the federal police. Securing accounts for a significant part of the budget - more than €6 million VAT included - and is well present in phase 2 of the file. As far as the public procurement is concerned, it is a single public procurement, but it is divided into several conditional instalments. The tranches will be allocated and carried out successively. In fact, a single-minded market would not change the timing. A chronology has been established to ensure the continuity of the operation of all services throughout the duration of Phase 2. Buildings considered less urgent - e.g. workshop-type buildings - must be constructed in advance so that the contents of the hangars to be demolished can be moved and the construction of the main units can be carried out. It is therefore not possible to start the construction of all units simultaneously or more closely. Finally, with regard to the amounts of work on the Saint-Gilles site, the Régie des Bâtiments received only recently - on 19 January - from the Federal Police, a list of work related to the specificities of the DAB. The Régie des Bâtiments needs this list to estimate costs and draft the schedule of work. She informs me that she is committed to analyzing the needs of the federal police as soon as possible. It is therefore premature today to communicate to you the amount, or even the precise timetable, of the development work of the site of Saint-Gilles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answers, in any case about the masterplan of Vottem. Indeed, as you mentioned, the deadlines are important and it is not for tomorrow, which I understand. It is therefore necessary to put the double bites in order to achieve this, for the well-being of all our police officers and also, pending appropriate measures, to guarantee this well-being for another ten years. In fact, our police forces are now living in more than difficult conditions in the province of Liège. I confess that I remain on my hunger for the second part. I heard a few weeks ago that the first phase of a move to Saint-Gilles on April 1 would be initiated. Today, you are telling me that there is not yet a timetable or certainty about moving. This runs counter to the commitments made just a few weeks ago in the negotiating committee. I imagine, both for the police and for myself, that this is not going to generate any enthusiasm over the next few hours. I very much hope that the emphasis will be on meeting the commitments made last January. These allowed the situation to be softened. But April 1st was a commitment and I expect you to implement it. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my excellent colleague Mrs Chanson for her compliment. Thank you, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your detailed answers, particularly with regard to the first part on the masterplan. I have nothing to add at this point. Your answers fully satisfy me. However, a little like my colleague Rigot, with regard to the second part of our questions on the DAB in Liège, I am quite surprised. The information you are giving us today is quite contradictory compared to the information we obtained a few weeks ago on the results of the consultations undertaken. I will not fail to question you again in the coming days and weeks so that we can move forward together on this issue in good conditions. Staff must be able to work in optimal conditions and in premises suitable for their missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u11	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately we all know the state of the Palais de Justice in Brussels, on which scaffoldings as old, if not old, as I am. Water infiltrates inside. Pieces of walls crumble and fall. Courtrooms are sometimes unavailable. This is an unfortunate reality for this building, which is supposed to represent justice in our state. However, the potential of this remarkable building deserves that the planned renovations quickly succeed, especially since it is known how much the Belgian State costs the numerous relocations of all the justice services, whether it be civil justice, labour justice, the prosecution of the king's attorney or others, or almost 23 million euros a year. You recently stated in the press that within two years, the scaffolding of the courthouse would be withdrawn, and even that it was one of your priorities, which I am happy to hear. Mr Secretary of State, what are the next steps in the process of renovation of the building in terms of facade and interior work? What is the status of the studies and the definition of the home renovation needs program? What is the overall project for this renovation? Which jurisdictions would they be repatriated to the courthouse? Do you work with the Minister of Justice in this regard? Could you tell me, if you have it, the estimate of the overall budget of the works?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as my colleague explained very well a few weeks ago, you would say that the renovation of the Palais de Justice in Brussels is one of your priorities. In this context, you undertook to release the main face of the courthouse from the scaffolding in 2023, to finish the exterior of the building in 2030 and to completely renovate the interior of the building by 2040. Without trying to cast doubt on your goodwill and the need for this renovation that has been overdue for too long, your statements have called on me to question you in particular following the inclusion of this renovation in the government's post-covid recovery plan, as announced on February 5. On the other hand, if the plans for the exterior of the building are already well advanced, it seems to me that no initiative has already been taken regarding the renovation of the interior of the building. Mr Secretary of State, how do you explain that the renovation of the Palais de Justice in Brussels was included in the recovery plan for our post-covid economy? Is the European Commission aware of the allocation of its support fund, initially intended for our recovery? Your colleague at the Recovery justified this choice by explaining that the short-term impact on the economy will be real. How did you assess this impact? You have also announced an amount of 170 million euros for the renovation of the Palais de Justice in Brussels and the buildings of the 50th anniversary. What exact amount will be allocated for the renovation of the courthouse? How was this amount determined? As far as the exterior works are concerned, can you tell me when the renovation and lighting of the front and rear facades and the dome drum will begin? On March 20, 2019, Minister Geens announced in commission an evaluation of the courthouse and the various buildings adjacent to Poelaert Square, which would allow to determine what services would remain in Poelaert after its renovation. What conclusions can we draw from this evaluation? What services will remain in the courthouse and what others will be relocated? Has an invitation to tender for the interior renovation of the palace already been issued? If not, when will he be? Do you have a detailed specification that you can communicate to us? Finally, you said that an additional EUR 100 million would be needed for the internal renovation of the building. Could you give us the details of such an estimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u13	Minister, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u14	Mrs Rohonyi, I have your question before me, but it does not contain any reference to the recovery plan. However, I am talking about this in a later question. This part of my reply does not contain any information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, this is due to the fact that your interventions on the recovery plan took place between the tabling of my question and today. I have therefore allowed myself to update it, as is usually the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u16	I get it. But since there is a subject that has been added to the question that I have received, it has not been possible for me to prepare the answer to that question. As you said, I have made it a priority for this legislature because I do not want a country where scaffolding is left for 40 years on a building that is the very symbol of our justice. It is also an issue of decarbonisation and modernization of our justice. It is also an expression of a state of mind that we want to give in particular within the framework of this European recovery plan. The restoration will therefore be carried out in two parts: on the one hand, the exterior with the renovation of the facades and, on the other hand, the interior with a restoration to the norms of justice of the twenty-first century, respecting the heritage. As regards the facades, since the restoration of the latter will take place in successive phases, several contracts will be required for the execution of the works. We have decided to regroup certain areas in order to speed up the restoration. Phase 1 includes the restoration of the façade on the side of Poelaert Square and the dome base. Phase 2 includes the study and restoration of facades along rue aux Laines and rue de Wynants. Phase 3 includes the study and restoration of the façade along the rue des Minimes. The procedure for adapting scaffolding on Poelaert Square (Phase 1) has been initiated. Work will begin in the next few weeks, in other words in the course of March. The scaffolding should be adjusted first. Parts shall be replaced and shelves renewed. It also requires reinforcements and stability and security must be checked before the facades can be restored. At the same time as adjusting the scaffolding, the study assignment for the restoration will be started, including possible test restorations, in order to carry out the actual works as efficiently as possible. Given the protected status of the Justice Palace, the Cultural Heritage Directorate of the Brussels Region and the Royal Commission for Monuments and Landscapes will be invited to follow the study. Second, the inside. The case file for the design office to develop a comprehensive study for the renovation, restoration and redevelopment of the courthouse is being prepared. The needs program still needs to be validated by the Justice FPS. The market can then be launched. The restoration of the interior will be subdivided into different phases. As a result, several studies, public auctions and licence applications will be required. I will not fail to come back to you with more information when the file is more advanced. In terms of needs, this prospect of renovation will obviously have an impact on the occupancy of buildings on the outskirts of the courthouse. Finally, the cost of restoration of all facades is currently estimated at just over €87 million, including VAT and fees for the design office. The cost of restoring the interior can only be communicated with certainty after the design office has been designated and the choice of scenario to follow. Furthermore, I would like to point out that Belgium has asked Europe for EUR 60 million for the renovation of the courthouse as part of the recovery plan. This sum relates to phase 1 of the facades but includes some work aimed at increasing the energy performance of the building. As you will have understood, this issue is evolving quickly and favourably for the time being. I am committed to making every effort to make it happen in time, and I will do my utmost to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. In symbolical terms, these long-standing scaffoldings remind us that the work of righteousness is an eternal unfinished, like this courthouse. We could see things like this even if we can't settle for it. I am pleased to hear that successive phases are programmed and that budgets are made available. You do not pronounce yourself – it is probably premature – on the impact on the different places of justice and their reassignment or on the amounts. This allows us to have a trajectory, a course of action. I hear that work on the Poelaert and Cupola Square will begin in the coming weeks and that work on the rue aux Laines, rue de Wynants and rue des Minimes will be phased out at a later date. I assume that the rue des Minimes will be phased in conjunction with the project of redevelopment by the city of Brussels of the alleys which today serve as improvised parking along the courthouse. For the rest, I will come back to you in the coming months to see the status of the design bureau designation and the licensing phases. Thank you for your commitment to this highly symbolic and important place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. Like my colleague, I am very pleased that the Palais de Justice in Brussels can see a prospect of finally being rid of these famous scaffoldings. You talked about the month of March. We finally have something concrete! I'm talking about the start of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u19	It's soon! And it's better than April 1st!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u20	As far as the interior of the building is concerned, we are still far from a concrete phase. But the urgency is there. Justice actors must work under extremely difficult conditions. For example, exhibits are stored in rooms potentially infested with mould. It's really very problematic. On the other hand, you refused to update your response, despite the presence of this renovation in your recovery plan. I regret that, because this is not part of the vocation of such a plan supported by the European Commission. Anyway, I'd like to hear from you about that. So I'm going to re-ask a question. For the rest, the announced date of 2040 leaves me skeptical, since it was already so by the ministers Jambon and Geens in 2018, who were however working on work that should have been undertaken in 2019. You won't, you'll agree. Finally, I mean that you are talking about EUR 87 million for the outside of the building. This information is not consistent with the information announced by Mr Dermine, Secretary of State for Recovery. Indeed, for the Palais de Justice in Brussels, he had mentioned less than 1% of the total recovery plan, i.e. some EUR 60 million. Anyway, I'm getting lost in the numbers. Anyway, I'll ask you again about the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u21	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has stated that she does not want to replicate, which is her right. A reply is a right and not an obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u22	Mr President, I would like to point out that the questions must be communicated within a time limit specified in the Rules of Procedure. I answered the questions that were communicated in advance. On the other hand, Mrs Rohonyi, I have told you that elements of answers to the questions just asked appear in the following questions, and in particular the following one. I would also point out that the amount of EUR 60 million is the amount requested under the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u23	It is true that there is always a gap between when a question is filed and when it is answered. The current situation means that new developments are taking place along the way. The Secretary of State received the question as originally tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u24	Mrs. Dierick is not here. So you will have the floor immediately, Mrs Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, Belgium is claiming almost EUR 6 billion from the European Recovery Fund, which is to drag us through the corona crisis by investing. The federal level claims € 1.25 billion or about 21% of the total. The quantified Recovery and Resilience Plan should be submitted to the European Commission by 30 April 2021 at the latest in order to make use of those European funds. The federal government must therefore make decisions today. Which projects will we implement and which will we not? However, the choice of projects that the federal government will effectively implement with Europe's money is not the subject of a social debate. Hence my questions. Will the Government of the Buildings submit a quantified plan? How much of the EUR 1.25 billion that the federal government is entitled to from the European Recovery Fund will be spent by the Buildings Regié? Where does the Government of the Buildings want to invest? In what buildings? In which regions? Will the Government of the Buildings use the European Restoration Fund's funds for renovations or also for new buildings, for example for modern prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u26	Mrs Vindevoghel, the budget to be requested for the Buildings Regié under the Plan for Recovery and Resilience at the European Commission is EUR 170 million, part of which is for the Brussels Palace of Justice and another part for the Federal Scientific Institutions at the Cinquantenaire Parksite in Brussels and the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium in Brussels. There is also a balance for the energy renovation of government buildings, mainly for Justice and Federal Police and for other buildings with high energy consumption. The choice of the buildings included in the recovery plan is based on several aspects. Firstly, the improvement of the energy performance of part of the building envelope. The windows and some horizontal walls for the justice palace in Brussels as well as the roofs and façades of the buildings on the Cinquantenaire Park Site and the KMSKB in Brussels can be considered. Secondly, the improvement of the performance of technical installations. Thirdly, the preservation of the heritage. If a sustainable renovation of the buildings is not possible, a demolition with reconstruction can be considered, such as for the logistics centre of the federal police and the warehouse for evidence from the Justice Department. Such projects should ensure that an energy performance level is achieved in accordance with regional regulations. The renovation of these buildings is part of the contribution of the Government of the Buildings to the National Energy and Climate Plan, which can be consulted on the website of the FPS Economy. As far as the timetable is concerned, all the investments foreseen in the Recovery Plan must be committed by 2023 and must be completed by 2026. For the sake of diversity, different objectives were set for each type of building. For office buildings, the objective is to achieve almost neutral energy use and to halve the energy consumption of the HVAC installation by 2040. For protected buildings, this is a reduction in the energy consumption of HVAC installations by an eighth by 2040. For buildings with specific functions such as barracks and prisons, the objective is to reduce the energy consumption of HVAC installations by a quarter by 2040. It goes without saying that the design office will have to evaluate carefully the energy gains from the buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u27	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive answer. We regret that there has been no more debate on the decisions, but it is interesting to know what criteria you are using. I hope there will be enough staff to carry out the investments. We have discussed here a number of times the operation of the Buildings Control, where there is quite a lack of staff, and where there is a shortage of staff. We will continue to monitor how the works will be carried out. We hope that there will be enough staff to put them all in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, included in Wallonia's inventory of the cultural real estate heritage, the Cointe Interalloyed Memorial is a high place of memory built in memory of the many allied soldiers who had fallen during the First World War. In 2014, he hosted ceremonies marking the international launch of the centennial commemorations of the outbreak of the first global conflict. Unfortunately, this place of memory is not immune to acts of vandalism. Thus, on the weekend of January 16, all the helmets composing the Greek monument were stolen. Built on the initiative of the Greek consul in Liège and officially inaugurated on 11 November 1988, this monument consists of a stack of antique bronze helmets. This was a set of 114 helmets, which corresponds to the number of articles in the Greek Constitution. Mr Secretary of State, since the Régie des Bâtiments is the owner of the premises, has any contact been made with the Belgian authorities as a result of this mischief? Is there a plan for a rapid remediation of the site? In consultation with the military authorities of the province of Liège and the municipal authorities, is a greater security of the premises envisaged in order to prevent the renewal of these degradations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u29	Madam Member, thank you for your question. I am very impressed with what digitalization allows, since I see you in the car, and nevertheless in the capacity to attend the commission. It's beautiful! Madam Member, like you, I was shocked to learn that this monument has been vandalized twice. Following the finding of deterioration, the Régie des Bâtiments held an urgent consultation with the authorities of the City of Liège, the Honorary Consul of Greece, the Neighbourhood Committee and the President of the ASBL of the Inter-Allied Memorial. The City of Liège, in collaboration with the University of Liège, is studying the possibility of a provisional reconstitution with a view to the ceremony of 25 March 2021. This realization will remain in place pending the definitive reconstitution of the helmets in the same way. In order to achieve this, a working group under the aegis of Roland Léonard, an alderman in charge of the work, will concentrate, with the honorary consul of Greece, on the aspects of the restoration of the monument. At present, no contact has been made with the military authorities regarding the security of the site. They usually only intervene in the organisation of important events in which they participate. However, a working group consisting of the Régie des Bâtiments et des Services de la Ville de Liège has been set up in order to take additional security measures and improve the maintenance of the site. In the coming weeks, the Régie des Bâtiments plans to install surveillance cameras. Consideration is also being given to securing the perimeter of the site by means of fences. This option will have to be validated by the various authorities, including obviously the Walloon Heritage Agency. Finally, it is also envisaged that a guarding company will be used in order to put in place enhanced supervision. I hope I have been able to reassure you of the follow-up given to these events that flout the memory of our heroes of the First World War and thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for taking this matter seriously, especially for the future. It is indeed a matter of putting in place a measure that will prevent such degradation from happening again. I have heard your comments about the working group on security and the use of a guarding company, and thank you for your appreciation of the importance of this monument to the Liegeians.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the dossier on the extension of the courthouse to Verviers, if it is not comparable to the saga of the Palais de Justice in Brussels, deals with problems that have persisted for many years within the Justice FPS. You were kind enough to remind me of the history of the case. I read it with great attention and already knew a lot of things. However, I have the impression that this case is a little stagnant for reasons I do not know. After many years we have therefore reached phase 3. It has not yet started because the programme of the needs of Verviers justice, necessary for the study of the extension project, is still waiting. You have also mentioned, in your last answer to my question, the prospecting of the Vervieto real estate market with the aim of moving some services of the Justice FPS – some really need it, I think of Crapaurue Street – the time to carry out the work at the courthouse. According to my information, this prospecting has also been going on for many months. Secretary of State, my questions are quite simple. What about the Verviers Justice Needs Program and the beginning of Phase 3? When can we hope to study the extension project? What will be the next steps in the third phase? What about the prospecting of the Vervieto real estate market in order to move some services of the Justice FPS? Can you tell us where she is?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u32	Mr President, Member of Parliament, at the end of January 2021, the Régie des Bâtiments had available three versions of the Verviers Justice Services Needs Program:- a comprehensive program that includes all services including those already relocated to the new Prince of Wales Building (June 2020 version); - a programme without rehousing services in the new Prince of Wales Building (January 2021); - a programme without the services relocated to the new Prince of Wales building and without the services of the company court (January 2021). These programmes still need to be validated by the Justice Finance Inspectorate. On the basis of these three versions of the needs programme, one of the following two strategic options will be considered: either the renovation of the existing building or the construction of a new building on a site to be identified. A study to identify one or the other strategic path is expected to be completed in the coming weeks or months. The Régie des Bâtiments will then plan the studies and works necessary for the continuation of one or the other track. In addition, the needs programme finally chosen will also have to be specified in the three choices brought to the attention of the Régie. With regard to real estate exploration on Verviers, the first finding is that the real estate market in its territory does not have office surfaces directly adapted to the standards of the Justice FPS, which would allow for a very short-term move of all the agents currently housed in the courthouse. In this context, the Régie de Bâtiments directs its exploration on two axes: office spaces or possibly land allowing the installation of prefabricated facilities that could accommodate services near the palace if the option of its renovation were to be retained and archival storage spaces in order to compensate for the inaccessibility of the building located on rue Crapaurue 133. Prospecting was launched on 1 February 2021. In this case, I'm trying to figure out all possible leads. A move to the outskirts of the centre of Verviers should not be excluded, in agreement with the city, the judicial authorities and the judiciary. This could be a pragmatic choice to receive Verviers' justice as soon as possible. Madame Jadin, I am very close to this file. I know he cares about you too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these points of answer. I hear that this folder is not easy and that the options for finding solutions are not multiple and infinite. That being the case, I invite you to visit my region to tell you about the difficulties; justice is one of them, but we are also facing other problems in terms of infrastructure. As a result of the reform of the judicial landscape, the services, which are still in Verviers and wish to remain in Verviers because of the service offered to the citizens and the people involved, must be able to work in good conditions. I invite you to take this case with you and follow it closely so that urgent accommodation solutions can be found to ensure the continuity of the services we all want.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, I have two questions for you today. The first concerns the closed centres. We have already had a chance to discuss this dossier. Especially for me it is an important dossier, because it is the follow-up to the master plan that I was able to draw with your predecessor, Mr Jambon, who was responsible for the Directorate of Buildings. I've questioned you on several occasions. I have a question about timing. There was a bit of a fuss about that, because you said that we would not be able to open it until the end of the legislature. Your colleague, Mr Mahdi, was rather shocked, and clearly you had not consulted him on this. I went to him with your answer. I posted a movie about that too, as I'm sure you've seen. I asked him how he felt about that. He said that this was not true and that he would convince his colleague to do so more quickly. I know that large construction projects are often subject to timing. It is not possible to speed up all this and what is accelerated is often not possible in practice. I certainly hope so, but my questions remain. What's the timing for Jumet and Zandvliet? Is there an effective acceleration? The second point concerns the CIB in Bruges. You know that this closed center is particularly outdated. It hasn't been up-to-date in years. I also received negative reports on this as Secretary of State, as did Mr Jambon. We knew we had to get to work on that. Now that's something for this government. Do you have any news on a location? Is there any more news on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u35	Mr Francken, I have a brief answer for which I apologise. In consultation with the Government of the Buildings, the Department of Foreign Affairs is preparing a note to the Council of Ministers concerning, inter alia, the files of the closed centres of Jumet and Zandvliet, in which the capacity of the centres will be re-evaluated and established, in accordance with the coalition agreement. I do not yet have a precise timing, but today every effort is being made to meet the commitments made. I work with Secretary of State Mahdi for that. No decision has yet been made on a location in Bruges. The feasibility analysis is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, it is up to Parliament to ask the questions and to give the government the answers it wants, so I respect that. I'll follow that up. Mr Mahdi had announced that he would try to go to the Council of Ministers with that dossier at the end of January. We're now at the end of February. I understand it won't be ready this week, so it'll be March. I hope that this can be approved shortly, because the longer it is delayed, the harder it will be to achieve that timing and to reach the deadline of the end of the legislature. I wish you every success. I really hope it works. In order to have a good migration policy, we also need places to return. I have always had your brother's support for this in the previous government, so I am sure you are convinced of the need for it. That's a necessary evil. No one sends people back to their homeland for their pleasure. Those are difficult decisions that one does not take lightly, for his pleasure or with the smile, but they are sometimes necessary. Otherwise we will no longer need legislation and the whole world will be able to walk into our country. Personally, I think there is no basis for that, certainly not in Flanders. I sometimes come to Wallonia and I do not have the impression that everyone is waiting for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u37	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question about the beautiful park of Tervuren. One of the beautiful projects of the Government of the Buildings is not the Justice Palace in Brussels. I hear you're making a new commitment. I wish you every success, but I'm afraid so. I've been on the Wetstraat for 20 years now. I'm going into my 21st year and I've been following the file for twenty-one years. I come a lot in Brussels; I love Brussels. So it really hurts me to see that things can happen in this country. However, I would very much like to take you to the park of Tervuren. A wonderful project that the Regie der Bouwken did realise is the restoration of the Colonial Palace and the AfricaMuseum in Tervuren. It is a beautiful renovation, which has taken a long time and cost a lot of money. That is the case with historical buildings. It costs money. That may cost money, too. I don't have a problem with that. Such works are also good for the construction sector. These are positive investments. The renovation is certainly beautiful. I hope that the decolonization wokemeute won't destroy the museum in the long run, which scares me a little bit. After all, there is a committee on this now. I hope that the ratio wins and that it does not become a kind of museum of self-loathing and even shame. We need not be ashamed of what has happened in Africa. Wrong things have happened there, for which Belgium and even the King have already apologized. However, it is what it is. We need to be realistic about this, and our children also have a lot of children in the museum as visitors and prepare and explain to the next generations what happened then and what happened there. I wish the Government of the Buildings success in this respect. The park of Tervuren surrounds the museum. It's a beautiful park. I'd be happy to take you there sometime. I hope we can go for a walk and eat. Tervuren has a fantastic N-VA mayor, by the way. The former mayor, Jan Spooren, is now governor of Flemish Brabant. That was the best appointment ever. It could be interesting to make a breakthrough for that park. For fifteen years, negotiations have been under way between the Government of the Buildings and the Flemish Agency for Nature and Forests (ANB), in order to transfer the last section of the park to Flanders, the ANB has already transferred two-thirds to three-quarters of the park. Where are we with the file? Can you give me the latest state of play? The file could potentially be a major breakthrough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u38	Mr President, Mr Francken, I have a long answer for you. The park of Tervuren is the responsibility of two different authorities. The northern part around the AfricaMuseum is managed by the Government of the Buildings. The southern part is, as you indicated, managed by the Nature and Forest Agency. The cooperation with the ANB for the management of the park is being examined, as the management of the park is more closely in line with the competences of the ANB. In consultation with the Onroerend Erfgoed department, the municipality of Tervuren, the AfricaMuseum, the Agency for Nature and Forest and the Regie der Buildings, an agreement was negotiated between the ANB and the Regie, consisting of three parts: daily maintenance, investments for the park management plan and uniform management of the park. The agreement focuses on the entire duration, 20 years, of the park management plan but the implementation is divided into five consecutive four-year project periods. After each project period, cooperation may be terminated or continued. The separation of tasks in the park is clear. The greening and investments included in the park management plan are carried out by the ANB and financed by the Buildings Regie. The infrastructure, such as the bridge over the Empress, garden sculptures and so on, is and will remain the expertise and mission of the Government of the Buildings. The daily maintenance is currently provided by the Regie via a maintenance contract. Negotiations on the Agreement have been concluded since May 2020. The agreement is now being negotiated internally by the ANB with its Finance Inspectorate. Next, the Buildings Executive will have to submit the final document to its Finance Inspectorate for favourable advice. The ANB should be given sufficient time to take over the interview after the agreement for the agreement is obtained. This means that the maintenance of the park will be included at the earliest in 2023. The annual amount for maintenance works is set at a maximum of EUR 815,000 for the first project period, informally based on the basic index. The health index has been charged to cope with price fluctuations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u39	So, Mr Secretary of State, I understand that there is no real transfer of competence in itself, but that there is an agreement between the various parties and that this agreement has been concluded since May last year, i.e. for several months, and that now the ANB is looking at it. The Regie still has to have it reviewed by the Treasury Inspectorate, and then the agreement can come into force. It seems to me to be positive that an agreement can be found. I'll check with Flemish Minister Demir later on to see if it's settled. I called the mayor this morning. He didn't say anything about it, but I'll get back to you on this. It seems good to me, but you say that a lot of investment is needed. For example, the ponds should be dredged up and the banks strengthened. You also mentioned the bridge which is in very poor condition. This is an investment of a few million euros and it is not quite clear to me who will pay for it. I would like to ask you one last question. You say that the Regie der Buildings manages the park of Tervuren, but who actually owns the federal section? Is that the Royal Gift, or does the Regie and the federal government have full ownership of that part of the park? That's not entirely clear to me. The Royal Gift has a lot of property in Tervuren, which has grown from time to time. Is the part of the AfricaMuseum really yours or does it belong to the Royal Gift and does the Regie just do the maintenance? If you cannot answer this immediately, you may also give me the answer later. Mr Secretary of State, can I have a look at the draft agreement? Would you be able to deliver that to the committee so that we can take note of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u40	I'll check with the Regie. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u41	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the past, the Government of the Buildings has set out a number of objectives for improving the energy efficiency of its buildings. That is a legitimate objective when one looks at the state of parts of the heritage. The patrimony of the federal government is not always in the same condition. I therefore believe that it is a legitimate objective that, through its activity reports, it expresses its desire to make greater use of climate policy and the energy consumption of the buildings in its management. The Federal Relance Plan also pays attention to making government buildings more energy efficient. Mr Secretary of State, I would have liked you to give me an overview of the state of those buildings today. How many buildings have only glass left? How many buildings are not or barely isolated? What about the heating? Are there any buildings that really run on fuel oil? Are there any heat pumps already available? So I would have liked to have had an overview of the energy consumption of our government heritage. What is the status of the project group to implement the National Energy and Climate Plan? Goals have also been set, what is the state of play? What else has to be done? What investments are planned with the resources currently earmarked in the Federal Relance Plan to boost this energy efficiency? I would have liked to have had an overview of that. What is your view on reporting the state of our government heritage to the Chamber of Representatives? At the moment, this is happening very sporadically. It is already not clear to the representatives of the people to obtain data, even the lists of the State's own heritage. We need to find a way to see it. This control function or its implementation is therefore very difficult. In other countries, that is completely different. In the United Kingdom, an annual report is standardized on energy policy and the status of the state heritage. This seems to me to be an interesting example, which we could also apply in committee. I would have liked to have heard your views on this, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u42	Mr Roggeman, the Directorate of Buildings does not have current centralised data, whether they are technical installations, the building shell or the consumption for each of the buildings. That doesn't mean that the Regie doesn't do anything to ensure better centralization of its energy data. As a reminder, the Government of the Buildings manages over 900 buildings and is one of the largest owners in Belgium in terms of managed square meters. However, as part of the implementation of the National Energy and Climate Plan, the Buildings Control will have an energy audit carried out in each State-owned building it manages. A specifications for a framework contract are also being prepared for this purpose. With regard to consumption data, the Buildings Control gradually installs closed oil meters and, where justified, switches to gas installations. This is done in order to supplement the missing data on consumption. Finally, the EPB certification for public buildings is a public service obligation and the Buildings Control helps the occupying services of the public buildings falling within the scope of the EPB certification for public buildings to comply with this obligation through the framework contracts it makes available to them. Therefore, the Regie does not currently have an EPB certificate for each of the buildings concerned. The NEKP Working Group is responsible for the overall coordination of the implementation of the NEKP at the Executive Board of the Buildings, but since it has an impact on all disciplines of the Regie, all services will be responsible for the implementation of the projects. In general, this working group is open and leaves room for any innovative techniques. The requested budget under the Plan for Restoration and Resilience at the European Commission for the Government of the Buildings amounts to 170 million euros, some of which will be reserved for the Justice Palace, another part for the Federal Scientific Institutions of the Cinquantenaire Park and the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium and the remaining amount for the energy renovation of government buildings. Finally, we are seeking to modernise our heritage and its management tools. That is why we have introduced a new instrument for heritage management, enabling us to communicate this type of data in terms of energy use and EPB certificates as effectively as possible. We are committed to full transparency in this area. We have nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u43	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I find it quite surprising to hear that the Regie has no data on the energy consumption of its own heritage or at least has no overview of it. This is, of course, not entirely new. I refer to the evaluations of the Court of Auditors in the past and to Deloitte's audit in 2018 which found that the Regie has too little knowledge about its own heritage. Three years later, I note that much of this has not been remedied, and that for an important objective such as improving the energy consumption of the government which the government itself has included in its policy statement as one of the main objectives for this legislature. I therefore wonder on what basis the Regie and you have made the selection of the buildings to which the resources of the federal relance plan go. If one does not have an overview of the relative energy efficiency of the heritage, how can one determine priorities for investment? Then one delivers wet fingering in a number of symbol files. That is a deafening observation, and I will take this further with you in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u44	Mr President, Secretary of State, the Federal Police is occupying a building in Tournai, Maire Avenue 19. According to my information, this building is occupied by the Federal Police and the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation. Mr. Secretary of State, is this building rented by the Régie des Bâtiments on behalf of the Federal Police or is it rented directly by this State Department? How much is the rent? Is the entire building occupied by the services mentioned above?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u45	Mr President, honourable Member, this building is actually rented by the Régie des Bâtiments. The current rent is 1 104 134.76 euros per year, for the entire site, including parking. The Federal Police confirmed to the Régie that only the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation is present on this site.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u46	Secretary of State, thank you for the clarity of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u47	Madame Matz, I have become aware of the state of the Liège courthouse thanks to the Régie des Bâtiments. Moreover, I envisage a visit in the next few weeks in order to see the real state. With regard to a complete renovation, such work should be programmed over several years. However, a timetable has not yet been decided. It is a multi-occupancy complex for which the Régie should provide alternative accommodation during the construction. All safety work requested by the IRS (Regional Fire Service) is in progress or in preparation. In addition, regular visits are organized with firefighters to assess their evolution. Finally, the initial courtrooms are in order and usable for trials, with a maximum of 99 people. Nevertheless, the Real Estate department is looking to find other premises near the courthouse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u48	Secretary of State, the Liège courthouse is a bit of the monster of the Loch Ness. While, for many years, promises of security and total renovation have been expressed - notably by Minister Reynders, formerly in charge of the Régie, who was on the ball - their realization has been cruelly delayed. You don't think there's any problem with the courtrooms. This therefore means that work has recently begun. In fact, so far, assize trials have faced several difficulties. The mayor had even had to take a decree to prohibit its holding in the rooms planned for that purpose. I hear the Régie des Bâtiments is prospecting to find other premises for rent. I hope, in any case, that the functioning of justice will not again be hampered by a lack of foresight in the organization of work of which the importance has been known for several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u49	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on January 29, a fire struck a historic building on Crapaurue Street, one of the main streets of downtown Verviers. The fire went to the roof. The building, the work of Charles Thirion, famous architect and also author of the illustrious Grand-Théâtre de Verviers, completed in 1918, was fortunately saved. If I mention this fact with you today, it is because the owner of this construction is none other than the Régie des Bâtiments. Historically, it housed the registration offices. More recently, it has hosted the services of the Verviet justice system, including courtrooms. At the time of the disaster, the ground floor and the first floor were still used for the storage of part of the archives. Fortunately, no documents have been destroyed, but in the case of so-called "living" archives, because regularly consulted by departments in the context of ongoing files, a solution of relocation in the immediate vicinity must be found quickly since they are currently inaccessible. However, it is waiting and I am reminded that there is growing concern that certain hearings may be postponed for this reason, which, you will agree, would not be acceptable. Moreover, we have here a new illustration of the problems of premises that the Verviet justice has been encountering for too long. The lamentable state in which our courthouse is located has become the sad symbol of the situation of justice in Verviers. Mr Secretary of State, what are the proposed relocation routes? How long could the move be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u50	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, I am of course transmitting to you the information I have received from the Régie des Bâtiments because, as mentioned in the reply to your colleague, Mrs Jadin, an exploration has been launched to welcome the archives of the Verviers justice. Several buildings were visited with a view to moving the archives. It is the old C&A building located bridge to Lions #1 to 4800 Verviers that, I imagine, you must know and which belongs to the City of Verviers that best corresponds to the storage of archives. The SPF Justice has issued a favourable opinion on this proposal, provided that the Régie des Bâtiments carries out certain necessary work. This involves some first installation work, additional firefighting and compartmentalization work as well as the installation of shelves or Compactus which can be recovered from the courthouse and storage centre of Crafarue. This building is free from 1 March 2021. The move could therefore be made, according to the Régie, rather quickly depending nevertheless on the budgets of the justice for the removals. Contacts between the City of Verviers and the "Immo" service of the Régie des Bâtiments are currently taking place.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that answer. Nevertheless, I would like to point out to you that, according to a number of local political decision-makers, of whom I am a member, this solution may be a solution for the archives of justice as such, but it would be "wreaking up a cartridge" in terms of repositioning, revitalizing the hypercentre, since the C&A you have mentioned is still a strategic building in terms of redeployment, revitalization. I believe, unfortunately, that it will be necessary either to enlarge, to open up the prospect of the redeployment of justice to this place, or to consider a different location, because if it is perhaps adapted to the needs of justice, it is certainly not the project of a city as currently conceived. I think it is important to continue discussions with local authorities in order to find a win-win solution that is acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u52	Member of the European Parliament, this is more than once when I am told about Verviers. I think it would be best to go there in the next few days, in the next few weeks, to discuss all the issues on the site. It is important and you are doing well to draw my attention to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u53	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mr President, I heard from the previous reply that the Secretary of State intended to visit Liège in the near future. Verviers being not far away, he will be welcomed there. Know, however, that from memory, a meeting is planned both with the services of the justice as well as with those of the Secretary of State (the Régie des Bâtiments) this Thursday morning, that is in two days, to evoke the various possibilities and try to maintain a pole justice as strong as possible on Verviers, but in a configuration that obviously interests everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u54	We take note of these invitations!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this is a dossier linked to the previous dossier, since the infrastructure of the prison is necessarily linked to the existence of a strong pole of justice in Verviers, which we absolutely wish to maintain, I repeat once again. Secretary of State, since 2011, and the decision to close it due to the dangerousness of the premises, Verviers is waiting for a new prison. The planned project consists of the construction of a medium security facility, which can accommodate up to 240 inmates, at the very site of the former prison. As you know, it must take the form of a DBFM-type public-private partnership. The file has undergone a series of arrests related to the question of expropriations of dwellings located on Rue des Côteaux and Chaudière de Heusy. It's been a long sequence. About 15 months ago, it was the delegate of the Walloon Region who refused the permit to demolish these houses, again having an impact on the planned agenda. On that occasion, I called upon your predecessor who had insisted on his - and that of the Régie - desire to see respect for the planning that would lead to the construction of the site between 2022 and 2024. In the meantime, the destruction was fortunate to have begun, as the minister decided not to follow this advice and validate the permit. Soon, the land will be completely cleared and there will be no more material obstacles to the start of the work. Further delays, whatever the reason, would be incomprehensible and likely cause frustration or even anger on the part of those who had to leave their homes. Mr. Secretary of State, could you provide an update on the status of this case? Is the DBFM procedure initiated? Otherwise, what's the timing? Can the actual realization still be hoped for by 2022-2024? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u56	Mr President, honourable Member, the Régie des Bâtiments has indeed begun the demolition of the houses expropriated for the future construction of the new prison in Verviers. All demolitions on Heusy's pavement have been completed, but due to the large asbestos presence in a house located on Rue des Côteaux, an application for an additional permit has been submitted, which is expected to return before mid-2021. Upon acceptance of the permit, the work may resume and the second phase may continue. The DBFM market itself for Verviers has not yet started. The external legal and financial consultants, who will assist the Régie des Bâtiments in the development of the DBFM market, have been appointed since 2020. In particular, the Masterplan III is being updated; once more advanced, it will be easier to provide a more realistic planning for the DBFM project in Verviers. Various projects are being prepared at the same time, for which our clients must submit their needs to the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u57	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for that reply and clarification, which I take note of. If you decide to visit us in Verviers, we will have an opportunity to discuss it with local actors, some of whom are concerned about the lack of political will in the leadership of some. There are rumours - and you know that rumours can have a disastrous effect when the case drags on - about priorities that would be placed elsewhere, particularly with regard to legal psychiatry centres. I hear your voluntarism and your determination to finally land the Verviers prison file, and I look forward to seeing the next actions in the interests of the borough and the city.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, Question No 55014365C by Mrs Hanus concerning digital accompaniment in the province of Luxembourg is transformed into a written question at the request of the author. In this respect, I would point out that the issues relating to digitalisation normally fall within the remit of the Committee on the Economy. However, this issue was on the agenda of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u59	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we have already had a topical debate with Mrs Wilmès on this subject. However, I still have a number of questions to ask. We have a huge health crisis and then we get the fire at BOZAR, with enormous water damage and enormous havoc. Has the fire expert's report been prepared yet? That wasn't there when we interviewed Mrs. Wilmès. What exactly was the cause of the fire? Is there any asbestos left in the building? I had not received an answer to that question either. Was there any danger of neighbors moving in during the fire? Did the fire insurance already transfer an amount to BOZAR? What action has the Government of the Buildings taken since the fire to restore the building? Did the heavy rain and snow of the last few weeks have any consequences for the Palace of Fine Arts in Brussels? What amount has the Government of the Buildings already had to spend on repairs since the fire? What about the projects already started in the building, such as the restoration of the Royal Salon and the transformation of the flat roofs into a roof terrace? Can these projects still be completed or have they been delayed? What will be the extra cost for these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, both the fire department and an expert, appointed by the insurance company, will produce a report. The report of the insurance expert is basically an internal report. The fire department's report is expected in the short term. Pending the fire department's report, a short circuit in an electric plate of a roof-facing ventilation group is put forward as the most likely cause. A connection shaft between two ventilation groups has made it possible to transfer between the two ventilation groups. In some places there is still asbestos in the building. However, asbestos present does not pose a risk of dangerous exposure. The fire does not involve asbestos-containing materials. There was no danger to the neighbors either. The fire took place far away from the neighborhood and could not spread to the neighboring buildings. There is weekly consultation between the Government of the Buildings, BOZAR and the insurance broker, which discusses inter alia interventions by the insurance companies for urgent interventions, and the method and intervention for final repairs. The possibility of working with certain advances to BOZAR is also discussed here. The Government of the Buildings made sure that the night of the fire itself a contractor was appointed to minimise further consequential damage. This contractor, together with BOZAR and the Regie, ensured that a preliminary waterproofing was installed as soon as possible to avoid any additional damage. Since then, BOZAR and the Regie have held weekly consultations to determine, among other things, how a sustainable repair can be carried out as soon as possible. The rain and snow of the last few weeks had no impact on the Palace of Fine Arts. The preliminary waterproofing could be placed in time to prevent additional damage to the Palace. For the time being, this temporary repair thus ensures the waterproofness of the roof. The urgent interventions were allocated by means of a public contract for urgent action. The insurance companies have declared their agreement through a broker to charge the works to limit further consequential damage. The fire has had hardly any impact on the yards of the flat roofs and the restoration of the Royal Salon. However, they have experienced a slight delay in an estimated period of one to two weeks as the employees were employed for the emergency work due to the fire. The works on the roof terrace are almost finished and were not affected by the fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u61	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive reply. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic380x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, before closing our meeting this morning, I would like to thank you for your answers.
