ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u1	Mr Minister, recently, on the basis of a secret contract, health insurance pays back three new medicines that can prevent migraine attacks, namely renumab, galcanezumab and fremanezumab. The public prize on the website of the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information, BCFI, is 491 euros. Older migraine medication is about 25 times cheaper. The BCFI carried out a critical analysis of the three new medicines in August 2021 and stated that in only 40% to 60% of patients the number of migraine days per month is at least halved. The conclusion was as follows: "One may ask whether the profit is proportionate to the high cost. It is many times higher than the cost of other medicines indicated for migraine prophylaxis and must be weighed against the social cost of severe migraine." Thierry Christiaens, professor of pharmacology at Ghent University and affiliated to the BCFI, stated on 6 September in De Standaard that many monoclonal antibodies belong to the top 25 of medicines that today weigh heavily on health insurance and the government costs a lot of money. They are niche products, so only a limited group of patients will be eligible for reimbursement. In a June 2021 study, the KCE was particularly critical of the secret contracts, where pharmaceutical companies, once they have obtained a secret contract, do not carry out any additional studies on the efficacy of medicines. I quote KCE researcher Mattias Neyt: "When medicines are refunded under such a secret contract, new similar medicines usually end up in such a contract. As a result, a quarter of the pharmaceutical budget is already going to covert medicines." How did the negotiations on the new migraine medicines go? Did the pharmaceutical companies publish the actual production costs of the three medicines during the procedure? Do you know the real cost of production? Do you consider this to be in proportion to the cost of about 500 euros per month per medicine? What conditions for studies on efficacy and efficiency, affordability and accessibility have you set during the negotiation procedure? You state in your policy paper that you want to thoroughly reform the contracts under Article 81. What does that mean in concrete terms? How and when do you intend to do that? How many contracts have you signed since your arrival? What measures will you take to reduce the prices of innovative medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u2	Mrs Merckx, you are asking about the real cost of production of the medicines quoted. We only have knowledge of what is in the public domain about production costs. So I can't give you any more information. As regards the conditions for studies on effectiveness and efficiency, affordability and accessibility, which I set out during the negotiations, I can say the following. During the conclusion of the agreement, several uncertainties were expressed, including the efficacy and efficiency of the agreement. Six months before the agreements expire, the pharmaceutical companies must provide an answer for their medicine. The company in question must submit a report on this matter. It is up to individual companies to determine which studies and which registers they wish to set up or use. The questions to be answered for the three medicines concerned are as follows: How many patients are treated with the medicine per year? What is the average number of injections of the medicine per patient, both during the first and second years of treatment? What is the percentage of patients with less than four injections in the first year of treatment? What is the positioning of treatment with the medicinal product concerned? How many prophylactic antimigraine treatments are used by the patient before starting treatment with the medicine concerned? Does treatment with the medicine concerned make it possible to reduce the use of the reimbursed medicines for the treatment of migraine attacks? The reform of Article 111 agreements forms part of a broader set of issues relating to the reform of procedures in the field of medicinal products. Our plan of action is now being written out. We will discuss this with the various stakeholders. The role and possibilities of the CTG and the Working Group Article 81/111 as well as the original purpose of the agreements, which are referred to in English as managed anti-agencies, will also be given considerable attention. That is an interesting term, because it is indeed about the controlled introduction into the reimbursement system of new medicines or technologies that are subject to important uncertainties. You asked how many similarities there are. Since my arrival at the beginning of October 2020 until the end of August 2021, there have been 88 applications for agreements. Applications for agreements may lead to both a new agreement and an amendment to an existing agreement, e.g. for the reimbursement of the new indication, a new pack size or a new dosage. In addition, 41 evaluation reports were submitted to examine whether the available data in agreements due to expire in the coming year allow a new assessment by the CTG, or whether a renewal of the agreement is appropriate. We have also completed a number of ongoing negotiations. After all, the CTG calendar does not stop at the formation of government. What's the result? Since my arrival, 30 agreements have been concluded and 62 amending provisions have been agreed. These include both extensions or innovations of agreements as well as registrations of new molecules, which were 16 or new indications of already reimbursed medicinal products. The amending provisions also include 11 short continuations, as the CTG procedure was not yet completed and the accessibility for patients would be compromised if that short period were not covered. Medicines prices are still set unilaterally by industry. By carrying out health technological analyses, the therapeutic value of new promising therapies is evaluated. The result is often that a reduction in costs is required by industry in relation to the price requested. As a buyer of a medicine, we are of course not exactly in the driver's seat. In our collaboration BeNeLuxA we are working to determine the willingness to pay by the various governments involved before the first pricing by a company. As a result, it is no longer the seller, in this case the industry, who takes the first step in pricing, but the buyer, i.e. the government, indicates what he is willing to pay for a medicine. The pressure from industry remains high. We are prepared to valorise valuable innovation. However, the aim of the strategy is to make companies and the general public aware of what would be a realistic price to pay for a promising therapy. If expectations and willingness are proactively communicated more clearly, this will lead to more constructive debates and negotiations. In this respect, we hope to be able to see an expression of this in a trend towards corporate social responsibility. It is important to mention that responsibility for the manageability of the pharmaceutical budget for potentially innovative therapies is a shared responsibility. I myself, other ministers, the CTG and the Working Party on Contracts, but certainly also industry, doctors, patients, citizens and public opinion, play an important role in this. Reasonable demand prices are an important factor in the accessibility of medicines. In order to make the pharmaceutical budget manageable, everyone must accept that decisions also have consequences. If there are significant uncertainties when a product submits a claim for compensation, or if there are still certain obviousities, an Article 111 agreement may provide a temporary way out. If there are no more uncertainties associated with the medicinal product, the controlled release may lead to a definitive fee. Without additional evidence, however, we must be able to accept that a medicinal product will no longer be able to be reimbursed or that it will be reimbursed at a publicly known price reflecting the value of the medicinal product. When it comes to purely budgetary problems, the CGT should, as far as I am concerned, be able to have other options for setting up a system of budget control itself. I'd like to have that examined. It is important to find a price that is socially acceptable and proportionate to the therapeutic value of the medicinal product. The most efficient use of medicines is one of my priorities for this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u3	You have not answered one of my questions, Minister. You're saying that if it's just the migraine drug, the firm has to file a report six months before the end. How long is that contract going to last? What about the timing? It's a secret contract, so I understand you can't give me any information about the cost of production, but I find that odd. During the secret negotiations, the firm should normally tell our negotiators what the cost of production or research costs were. You're not going to pay back on a white sheet, are you? That's still a question. The big problem with Article 81 contracts is that it should normally be a controlled introduction, as you said, but that it has actually become a completely uncontrolled situation, with a huge number of contracts. I understand from today's information that you have already signed some 30 of them, including 16 contracts for new medications. The other contracts refer to continuations of old contracts or other indications that are included. That goes against the controlled introduction. So I expected a little more action, Minister. You're giving a very inflammable answer. Of many things you say you would like to change them a little, but where is the Minister of Vooruit who had the Pill Plan and who would put an end to this? I miss that in this. Last week, for example, you announced that you will take very strict action and impose sanctions on long-term ill people, but here you are on the brakes. It will all be a long time and no deadlines will be set. I would have expected you to do so, though, because the social security budget is primarily at risk because of the high prices of medicines and not because of people who are really ill and who are also costing social security money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u4	Madam President, Minister, on August 26, the Information Security Committee (SIS) issued a deliberation authorizing the transmission of personal data by ONSS and Vaccinnet+ to the eHealth platform for the purpose of determining the rate of vaccination against covid-19 of workers in healthcare facilities. The ITUC considers that this transmission of data finds its legal basis in Article 4, § 2, 6 of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 March 2021, which states that "the processing of personal data referred to in Article 3, § 2 shall have the following processing purposes: (...) 6° The determination of the rate of anonymous vaccination against the population's covid-19". This deliberation contains several compelling elements. She said that the publication of the vaccination rate promotes transparency: "Organizations will be encouraged to publish their information on their own website and in their communication." Deliberation does not mention which "organisations" it could act on. We read between the lines – and you made statements to that effect – that they could be employers. In addition, the publication is not covered by the Cooperation Agreement. The cross-data are not clear, and some, such as DmfA data, are not covered by the cooperation agreement cited by the ITUC. Deliberation makes a fairly broad interpretation of the cooperation agreement, which only provides for "the rate of anonymous vaccination of the population" (as a whole) and not the possibility of sorting by profession or age group. Frank Robben's presence at the CSI is known to be predominant. He is also director of the eHealth platform that is party to this data transfer. Minister, do you consider that this deliberation respects the principle of legality? Does the cooperation agreement, in your opinion, authorize these different treatments? Do you find it normal for this decision to be taken by the ITUC, whose lack of independence is well known and which is led by a person more than challenged, rather than by the legislator, so that we can hold a real democratic debate on this matter? Finally, what do you think about the publication of these rates of vaccination of workers on the sites of their employers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u5	Madam President, Mr Boukili, the decision to publish the vaccination coverage of health care providers per health facility is a political decision taken by the Consultation Committee on 20 August. Article 4, § 2, 6 of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 March 2021, which you quote, makes it possible to use the data of Vaccinnet+ to determine the anonymous vaccination coverage against covid-19 of the population. The comments in this article make it clear that this must be done anonymously, but also in a fine way. The use of data from the DmfFA declaration in anonymous form for scientific research or statistical compilation is a compatible and authorised use under Article 5(1)(b) of the General Data Protection Regulation. The eHealth platform has a legal mandate (cf. Article 5, 8 of its Organic Law) "collect, merge, encode or anonymize personal data as an intermediary body and make them available as data useful for the knowledge, design, management and delivery of health care. The eHealth platform itself will only be able to store the personal data processed in the context of this mission for the time necessary to encrypt or anonymize them". The eHealth platform can only fulfill this mission at the request of a limited number of organizations, such as the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health, a federal minister, a federal public service or a federal government institution with legal personality. The Information Security Committee noted that these legal bases were available and, in its deliberations, decided that the necessary exchange of data could take place legally. I am therefore of the opinion that the processing of personal data carried out is lawful. For the sake of clarity, once vaccination coverage has been calculated, all the personal data necessary for the calculation will be destroyed as provided for by law, so that one can speak of anonymous vaccination coverage. In this way, it is also implemented by the eHealth platform. As I have already indicated, the decision to calculate and publish immunization coverage for health care providers per health facility is a decision of the Consultation Committee. This is therefore not a decision of the CSI, nor is it a decision of the eHealth platform, let alone a decision of the deputy head of the eHealth platform. The calculation of this vaccination coverage is expressly provided for in the Cooperation Agreement of 12 March 2021, which was ratified by Parliament. The role of the Information Security Committee is only to proactively verify whether the exchange of personal data is lawful and to render deliberations specifying which personal data are relevant to the lawful purposes of the processing and how the exchange and processing can be carried out in a secure manner. Such deliberations shall be binding on the parties involved in the processing of the data and on third parties. The Information Security Committee is an independent body, specifically regulated by law and appointed by Parliament. It is not chaired, as you suggest, by the deputy head of the eHealth platform, but by a member of the Information Security Commission appointed by Parliament. The Information Security Committee also prepares an annual report. With the rate of anonymous vaccination per employer, the occupational doctor and the prevention and protection services at work can take measures specific to the situation of the employer, e.g. vaccination awareness. Publicizing the vaccination rate can be motivating for employees or employees can be made aware if you can compare yourself to other companies in the same sector. All this seems positive to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u6	Minister, your answer is a lot of thought. You say that the publication was decided by the Codeco but, unless I'm mistaken, it's nowhere in the law. This is a political decision of the executive but where is the legal authorization? On what legal basis has this publication been authorised? In the law, unless you tell me otherwise, there is no such thing. You're saying the CSI didn't make a decision, but it was the Codeco. If the legal bases are available, as the CSI asserts, what is the point if it is to say the same thing as the law? What role does the CSI therefore play in this? Why is this Committee needed? Finally, the most important element is that the conflict of interest which is quite clear in this situation is not taken into account: the one who makes the deliberation for the transfer of data is the one who receives the data. This is a violation of the law, Minister. It's not legal according to the GDPR! This has been condemned by Europe, and has been pointed out on several occasions. This violates the GDPR. I do not understand that this kind of element can be justified with such conflicts of interest. Mr Minister, your answers are still insufficient because I still do not know on what legal basis this decision was taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u7	Mrs H annoyance, first element of the answer: a serosurveillance study is under way among the Belgian population, in different groups of the population. After consultation between the various parties (Sciensano, Rode Kruis Vlaanderen and the Blood Service), it was decided to extend the study until January 2022. It was also decided to limit sampling to once a month instead of once every two weeks. This will allow us to analyze more samples, from 900 to 1,200, in order to obtain more accurate estimates. Second answer: the latest available results date from the end of May. Before we can present the estimates, there are a few important steps to take. First, the samples must be sent to Sciensano. Sciensano must then receive demographic data from all participants in encrypted form. All samples are labelled and stored in the Biobank and a selection of 1,200 samples is made from the 3,000 sent, trying to best represent the Belgian population. After selection, antibody tests are performed on all samples, and results are sent for data analysis. We expect soon the laboratory results of the samples carried out in June, July and August 2021. They will be published as soon as they become available. Third response: the antibody assessment in nursing homes was published in a press release on 1 September 2021 and is available on Sciensano's website. More information, including the results of the first two test points of this study, can be found on the Sciensano dashboard. In this series of graphs, this is the sixth and seventh graphs, as well as the links under them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u8	Minister, it was indeed by consulting Sciensano's dashboards that I realized that the last seroprevalence report was dated 25 May. Indeed, the report has been posted online. In fact, I was asked to call Sciensano to inform him that the link was not working. Anyway, thank you for your answer to my rather technical question. I will carefully examine the results that will be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u9	Minister, I'm asking for quite a few figures. It is a coincidence, but I submitted this question in writing exactly one year ago. I can imagine that it is not obvious to read all the figures, you can give them to me on paper. In our country, the market share of biosimilars is in most cases significantly lower than in the neighbouring countries. However, biosimilars, like cheap medicines, offer the possibility to significantly reduce government spending, without compromising the quality of care. Until 2005, the hospital pharmacy budget was based on performance and a performance report had to be transferred to the Public Health Office. That report was intended to give an insight into the percentage of the purchase of generic medicines. In 2005 the hospital was also introduced for the first time. With regard to that hospital fee, we see that its calculation has not been revised since its introduction, except for indexation. We also note that the hospital fee in 2020 does not cover biosimilars. How, until 2005, did the submission of an annual report on rational procurement in the hospital pharmacy contribute to the accelerated use of generic medicines? Do you have a visual on that? Can this be used under current regulations to stimulate the use of biosimilar medicines? To what extent has the hospital deficit contributed to the use of generic medicines? How did the use of generic medicines evolve over the years by working with the hospital formula? When was the last time the hive was re-examined for the calculation of the hospital deficit? When will it be reviewed? Is it considered to include biosimilars in the hospital forfait? To what extent does the current legislation offer opportunities to build financial incentives to encourage rational purchases of biosimilars?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u10	I will provide you with the tables, but the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber do not allow you to regard the tables given as part of the answer. The first table shows the evolution of the number of reimbursed average daily doses of generic medicinal products delivered by the Belgian hospital pharmacists in the period 2000-2005. In 2002, the proportion of daily doses for generics was 0.9 % of the total number. That's a very small percentage. This then increased a bit, namely to 4.7 % in 2005. The second table is again an illustration of the problem raised, but with other data. It shows the evolution of the number of reimbursed average daily doses of forced generic drugs, both in absolute and relative figures, from 2006 to 2019, delivered by Belgian hospital pharmacists to hospitalised patients. As you know, the forfaitarization affects the hospitalized patients. It's a long table with a lot of numbers. This starts in 2006 with a percentage share of generics of 5.2 %, measured in DDD or daily doses, in the total number of DDD. This slowly but steadily increased to 17.6 % in 2019. That is the percentage share of generic medicines in the forfaitarized medicines used by the Belgian hospital pharmacists for hospitalized patients. So that share is slowly rising. You can continue using the tables. You also asked when the hive will be re-examined for the calculation of the hospital fee. The pharmaceutical formula is recalculated each year on the basis of the most recent data. The biosimilars are in that calculation. The only exclusions are based on the ATC code of specialism. You also asked questions about the adequacy of the current legislation. The law on public procurement and European competition law should always ensure that the parties concerned who sign up to a public procurement procedure are treated as equally as possible. Any promotional measure for biosimilars in that procedure should therefore be subject to legal review. This makes the installation of financial incentives for biosimilar specialities very complicated. In addition, it should be noted that the legal measures of the Biocliff principle make the basis of reimbursement by RIZIV quite similar to biosimilaire and original specialities, thus limiting the budgetary impact on health insurance as a function of the winner of the public procurement procedure. However, the current and future market conditions for the conservation and introduction of biosimilar specialities will be further optimised. In consultation with the actors concerned and with academic support, several options are currently being further explored and developed, on the one hand, to further optimise the efficiency of public procurement, on the other, to ensure optimal use of best-value biologicals by doctors where appropriate. We will continue to implement these initiatives in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have summarised the tables in such a way that something can also be said about them in the report. Thank you for the tables, we will certainly study them and come back to them at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u12	Madam Chair, would it be possible for all members to receive the tables that the Minister will forward? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u13	Minister, I first addressed this question to Minister Clarinval. A reduction in the use of antibiotics is obviously essential to reduce the occurrence of antibiotic resistance, which is a major public health issue. There is no administration of antibiotics except in human medicine. This is also the case in veterinary medicine. On this side, use is strictly regulated and is only made when necessary after a diagnosis of the veterinarian and preferably confirmed by a supplementary examination, e.g. bacteriological. This diagnosis is also possibly supplemented by a susceptibility test on the effectiveness and sensitivity of the antibiotic, not to mention the law which imposes rules for the use of antibiotics of critical importance, especially for food-producing animals. I, like many other veterinarians, have been very concerned by the European Parliament, which was invited to speak about the ban on the use of third- and fourth-generation polymyxins, macrolides, fluoroquinolones and cephalosporins in the veterinary sector, while the positions of various European scientific agencies are known and the indicators of the use of antibiotics in Belgium, as regards veterinary medicine, show a really positive improvement since 2011. There is also a whole series of new targets which have been set for 2024, be it for the specific reduction for each animal species, whether on the use which releases about 50 mg per kilo of biomass to be in the European median, be it in relation to the use of colistine with a major reduction target on which we are already well advanced; not to mention the use of medicinal foods containing antibiotics for a reduction which already amounts to 75% and which is still to increase by 2024. The cross-sectional prohibition of all these antibiotics for all veterinary doctors raises questions about the practice and sometimes absolute need to use them in animals. The AMCRA (Knowledge Centre and advisory body for authorities and sectors in relation to the responsible use of antibiotics in Belgium) has taken a clear stand against this ban. Many veterinarians also fired the alarm bell. Mr Minister, what is your position with regard to the European Parliament's will in this area? Has Belgium been asked to do so? Has the Commission given any opinion on this matter? Are there any ongoing discussions in the European Commission or between the ministers in charge of agriculture, health, food monitoring, etc., as many issues as it seems to me important to be able to anticipate in order to avoid finding ourselves tomorrow in situations of decisions taken without our opinion being asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u14	Dear colleague, a few weeks ago, the European Parliament approved Delegated Act 2021/1760/EC of 26 May 2021 setting out the criteria to be met for certain antibiotics to be reserved for human use. These criteria are: major importance for human health, risk of transmission of resistance and non-essentiality for animal health. These three criteria were established after extensive consultation with experts in human and veterinary medicine. A motion for a resolution to delete the third criterion (non-essential for animal health) was rejected by the European Parliament If the European Commission had adopted this motion for a resolution, it would have made it possible to completely prohibit the use of certain antibiotics in veterinary medicine such as the third and fourth generation polymyxins, macrolides, fluoroquinolones and cephalosporins. It should be noted that the total ban on the use of these classes of antibiotics in veterinary medicine would have serious consequences for animal health, making it impossible to treat certain animal diseases. According to experts, these consequences for animal health are disproportionate to the limited benefits to human health. The criteria set out in delegated act 2021/1760/EU have therefore been taken into account and have been scientifically substantiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u15	Minister, what do you say? Your answer leaves me with more questions than the question I had given you, I confess. I believe that, in the near future, and depending on how things will materialise, decide and evolve, I will allow myself to draw your attention to the impact that this may have, as it stands, on the practice of veterinary medicine. There is of course also all the stakes of animal health. Today we are in a one health concept. The whole aspect of antibiotic resistance is obviously a major issue. In relation to this, rational use, and in human medicine and veterinary medicine, is crucial and will be even more so tomorrow than today. At the same time, it seems to me impossible, in a careful and strict veterinary practice, to completely dispense with certain types of antibiotics. I confess that I will be very vigilant with regard to the development of this issue. I hope that in this respect we will also be extremely attentive at Belgian level. Impressive work has been done by the field in terms of reducing the use of antibiotics. I hope that we will pay close attention to the future of practice and, above all, animal welfare. It is also a question of this, from the moment we deprive ourselves in one way or another of some of the levers of treatment in animal health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u16	Mrs Fonck, my answer seemed quite clear to me and should normally satisfy you. You have to read the text again, because I literally read my text. It was satisfying from the point of view that you are defending, but perhaps you should read the text again. I will also send it immediately if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u17	I'll read it again, minister. In any case, if necessary, I will allow myself to complete with a question, even if I transmit it in writing. But I think that we will have to be extremely vigilant for the future, including, I believe, how Belgium will position itself at European level in relation to other forthcoming discussions on this particular aspect of animal medicine, in connection, of course, with human medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u18	Mrs Fonck, my answer will be rather short. As is the case with any important and thoughtful decision, it is advisable to take the time and discuss the matter with your child or pupil. The vaccine must not become a subject of fear or conflict. In the case of disagreement between parents, we recommend that the general practitioner be called upon to accompany them in decision-making, on the basis of illuminating information. As you have rightly pointed out, in fact, in order for a minor to benefit from the vaccine, the accompaniment of a single parent or legal guardian is sufficient. But I stress once again that vaccination should not be a source of tension. In case of opposition between parents, we can only encourage parents to go to their general practitioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that, as a first step, dialogue between parents, the minor and the general practitioner must always be encouraged. This is often the way it happens. If I asked you this very specific question, it was because I was asked about it. I note that, if an agreement cannot be reached, despite everything that can be done to find a solution that can be suitable for all, if only one of the two parents validates the vaccination while the other is opposed, the minor can be vaccinated if he or she says he or she is in favour of vaccination. In other words, one parent's agreement is enough. I wanted to have this official version because it may happen that an agreement between the two parents, the child and the doctor, cannot be reached. The problem arises in particular in cases of separation of parents and when former spouses have difficult relationships.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Dewulf, the code-worded action "mask 19" in the pharmacy was organised from the regional dome associations of pharmacists. These include the Flemish Pharmacists Network, the Association des Unions de Pharmaciens and the Pharmacists Association of Brussels. The aim of the action was to give individuals in a difficult home situation a way to inform the pharmacist in a discreet way that there is a problem. This action was set up at a time when each Belgian could pick up a number of masks from his local pharmacist, which could also be discreetly indicated. At present this is no longer applicable and the action in its present form is therefore obsolete. Only a limited evaluation of this action has been carried out. Only the Flemish Pharmacists Network has information about the limited number of people who used the action. However, there had been widespread action among pharmacists, through leaflets, newsletters and webinars, but there is still a great willingness from the pharmacy sector to further develop this action in a different form. Both the Flemish Pharmacists Network and the Association des Unions de Pharmaciens and the Pharmacists Association of Brussels take part in a follow-up to this action. The Flemish network works together with the CAW, supported by the Flemish government, out the project CAVASa, a project that will investigate and strengthen the orientation role of pharmacists. The UPB-APB, i.e. the General Pharmaceutical Association, participates in Atelier DPO, a project aimed at developing a tool for healthcare providers and individuals who come into immediate contact with victims of intrafamilial and sexual violence. The tool should be able to explain in the future how a person can detect victims, offer care and orientate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u21	Thank you, Minister, I will reread your reply in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u22	I refer once again to my written question, which has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u23	Mrs Dewulf, I cannot give you a quantitative answer to the question of whether mental problems in general have increased among minors. The minimum psychiatric data relate only to hospitalisations, which are in principle reserved for severe psychiatric conditions. That is, of course, only a fraction of the psychological problem. Data on hospitalisations will be available until 2018. In order to relieve hospitals somewhat during the corona pandemic, the submission of minimum psychiatric data was postponed. I expect the data for 2019 will be processed in the autumn. Contacts with pedopsychiaters and the chief doctors of the hospitals show that there are more registrations of children and young people with depressed symptoms, suicidal behaviour and eating disorders. One of the first measures I have taken is to strengthen capacity within the children and young people crisis teams. Afterwards, psychiatric services for children were better framed to ensure continuity of care outside the hospital before, during and after admission. Through liaison teams we have provided expertise from the pediatric psychiatry to the psychiatry. The latter measure was mainly used to better respond to the increase in the number of children with severe eating disorders. For the record, not all of these applications require hospitalisation. On 26 July, a RIZIV convention on first-line psychological care was adopted in which we provide a closed budget per network of mental health care. This is now being rolled out and the intention is, of course, to be able to respond better to people, including children and young people, with mild problems to moderate and severe mental disorders. This network budget also provides for a specific budget for children and young people, taking into account the fact that more than half of the disorders that occur already occur during childhood and are only heavily reflected at a later age. It is true that a doctor may issue a medical certificate in the event of physical violence. That certificate allows the patient to take legal action if he so wishes. No record shall be kept of those medical certificates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u24	Minister, this problem needs to be properly monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u25	Minister, naloxone has been a specific antidote for opioids, a reference medicine in the emergency treatment of overdoses of opioids for more than 50 years. It is on the WHO list of essential medicines and greatly improves the life expectancy of both a person who has used opiates and a victim who has not used them. And yet, in Belgium, only the injectable form of antidote is marketed, while health professionals insist that it be available in open access and in the form of a nasal spray, as some European countries have been doing for the last ten years. The pharmaceutical companies concerned are calling for a market-friendly policy of support, in the form of a formal spray naloxone programme for users, their relatives and professionals in the specialised sectors. The existence of a national overdose plan could therefore make the nasal form of naloxone available by making an attractive market considered too small. Minister, is there an application for a marketing authorisation for naloxone? Would the introduction of such a plan make naloxone available in spray? Is it up to pharmaceutical companies to condition the placing on the market of a medicinal product upon the implementation of such a plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u26	According to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the number of opioid-related overdoses has been increasing in recent years on the continent (about 10 000 deaths per year). In Belgium, the latest figures recorded by Sciensano date back to 2014, before the onset of the overdose crisis. Field associations warn of a lack of objectivation of the phenomenon. An emergency treatment of opioid overdoses exists, it is naloxone. However, in Belgium it is still too difficult to obtain naloxone, since it is only available by injection and on medical prescription, while health professionals and drug abusers' associations request that it be available in open access and in the form of a nasal spray, such as in France or the Netherlands. Minister, are more recent figures available on the number of opioid-related overdoses in Belgium? If not, could studies be conducted on the subject? What about making naloxone available on the market in the form of nasal spray? Has an application for marketing authorization been made in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u27	Mr Prévot, in fact, in recent years an increasing consumption of opioids has been observed in Europe. This growing consumption has not yet reached the proportions found in the United States and Canada. However, OECD figures, published in May 2019, show that Belgium is, after Germany and Austria, the third most important European country with daily consumption of opioids per million inhabitants. In Belgium, two main sources provide information on deaths: the General Mortality Register (GMR) and the smallest register of the Belgian Early Warning System Drugs de Sciensano (BEWSD). However, the GMR does not contain detailed information on the specific substances responsible for a death. In addition to the RGM, information on drug-related deaths is also collected by the BEWSD of Sciensano, which is the Belgian drug early warning system. With this monitoring, detailed information on death cases is available, but it is not exhaustive. Not all opioid-related deaths in Belgium are necessarily represented. In particular, during the period 2015-2017, there was both an increase in the number of deaths related to oxycodone and an increase in the number of deaths related to the use of new psychoactive opioids such as fentanyl. This latter trend seems to have been interrupted by the legislative work carried out (generic classification of substances, cf. Royal Decree of 6 September 2017 regulating narcotics and psychotropic substances with a view to submitting substances on the basis of a generic classification to the Act concerning trafficking in poisonous, soporific, narcotic, psychotropic, disinfectant or antiseptic substances and substances which may be used for the illicit manufacture of narcotics and psychotropic substances, referred to as the Drugs Act). I believe that this legislative work has been important. We increased from 5.2 oxycodone-related deaths and 21 Fentanyl-related deaths in 2015 to no oxycodone-related deaths and 13.7 Fentanyl-related deaths in 2018. Nyxoid nasal spray (naloxone 1.9 mg/dose) was authorised by the European Commission on 9 September 2017. This authorisation is valid in all the Member States of Europe. However, the medicine is not yet marketed in Belgium. It is the responsibility of the marketing authorisation holder to choose the countries of the European Union where the medicinal product will be marketed. Second, the marketing authorisation holder must charge a price to the SPF Economy and refund via the INAMI. Patients in Belgium may contact the marketing authorisation holder preferably through their treating physicians and ask in which country the medicinal product is or will be marketed. Where it is available in another European country, such as the Netherlands or France, it may be imported by a pharmacist on the basis of a doctor's statement in accordance with Article 105 of the Royal Decree of 14 December 2006. This may be a situation that needs further analysis, but it is the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u28	Minister, thank you for your response, for providing us with the snapshot of the situation and for reminding us that the legislative work that was carried out resulted in a significant reduction in deaths between 2015 and 2018. The fact that naloxone is not on over-the-counter in Belgium raises some concerns and some field associations wonder. I understand that since the medicine is not yet marketed in Belgium, it is the marketing authorisation holder who must apply for it in order to be able to ensure its distribution in our country. For the surplus, as long as there is no distribution on our territory, this medication can be imported by a pharmacist, always according to the scheme I described in my question. I will not fail to remain attentive to the question and to return to you, if necessary, because the demand of the voluntary sector, which is often confronted with this kind of public is real.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u29	Minister, I fully agree with what Mr Patrick Prévot has said. Naloxone can be accessed individually via its general practitioner. But here, it is widespread access for field associations that is required. The idea is to act preventively by having a stock. I will return to the question of the feasibility of a new overdose plan. Previously, I will read carefully the royal decree of September on the control of opioids.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u30	Madam President, Minister, most of the aid calls are in connection with child abuse. Compared to 2019, there would be an increase in such calls of 45%. For-K is a pilot project aimed at creating a specific range of intensive clinical treatment for young people with psychiatric problems. Mr. Secretary, are you satisfied with the pilot project? Will it be extended? Do you see an increase in this problem among young people and can you confirm it with figures? How and when do young people have the chance to get into that pilot project?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u31	Madam President, Mrs Dewulf, your question is originally a written question, which was actually answered correctly, with my apologies for the delay. I can also read the answer now, but the prepared answer contains a lot of figures. Do you insist that I read that to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u32	Minister, I will await the publication of the written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u33	Mrs. Dewulf, that's coming soon. The written reply has already been signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u34	Question No 55020713C by Mrs Muylle is transformed into a written question. Mrs Depoorter will be present a little later in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I submitted my question on influenza vaccination a while ago, but it remains topical. From 1 October people can obtain the flu vaccine without prescription in the pharmacy. There is some confusion as the pharmacists do not know exactly when they can apply the reimbursement for groups at risk, as a pharmacist recently told me. For people over 50, it is clear, since the refund may be applied anyway, but for those under 50, the pharmacist does not have the opportunity to see whether or not the person gets a refund. For this reason, a prescription is often requested from the general practitioner. Last year we had a shortage of flu vaccines. Occupational health services were then asked to bring vaccines back into the normal circuit. Have occupational health services already started vaccination against the flu this year? How many of the about 4 million vaccines available have the occupational health services purchased? What lessons have you learned from the 2020 flu vaccination debacle? There is also the fact that the flu vaccination and the third corona prick coincide. I give my reply a little bit, but on the ground it is regrettable that the corona vaccines and the flu vaccines have been completely separated and have been organised in a different way. Finally, have you thought about making this consultation free of charge when someone comes to consult for a flu or corona prick at the GP? Today she is paying, although at least for the corona prick she was promised to make them completely free of charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u36	Minister, I refer to my written question, but I would like to add something to that. The occupational health professionals have already started to give a flu shot and I wonder whether the priority rules for risk groups are being properly applied today. As far as vaccinations and pharmacists are concerned, I have read in many press releases that you are open to the administration of corona vaccines by pharmacists, which I think is a very good thing. Will that also be the case for flu vaccines for this flu season? Will additional orders be placed in addition to the 800,000 for this year's ordered vaccines? In the last two years people have built up little resistance because of the few contacts they had. Do you think those 800,000 vaccines will suffice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u37	Madam President, I can confirm that, in order to increase the vaccination rate, in addition to the higher number of vaccines available, the prescription by the pharmacist, through the law on the practice of health professions, has been made possible for each patient. The pharmacists' right to prescribe has initially been granted for the coming vaccination season. It may be renewed, following an evaluation by the FAGG, by a royal decision of the Council of Ministers. With regard to the role of general practitioners in the vaccination process, I would first like to draw attention to the fact that, by exempting a medical prescription for the flu vaccine, the patient will no longer have to go to his doctor for the prescription. We believe that this can have a threshold lowering effect for patients and that it relieves the general practitioners. The consultations for the administration of vaccines are not made free of charge. However, a royal decision will provide for the possibility of applying the third-payer scheme for those consultations. The patient will therefore only have to pay the brake fee. That seems important to me. The recommendations of the High Health Council were followed with regard to the starting date of the vaccinations, namely 15 October. The proposed phasing was not followed, as the final available number of vaccines is higher than the number known by the High Health Council at the time he gave his opinion on that phasing. The pharmacist will be able to prescribe for each patient, while the reimbursement, as in the past, is reserved for patients in the risk groups, as provided for in the regulations. In this context, the pharmacist will be able to identify an important number of persons with the information available to him. This is certainly the case for age, but also for pathologies about which the general pharmaceutical dossier provides certainty. In case of doubt, if the pharmacist really has no answer, for example on the presence of a certain chronic condition, he will have to refer the patient to his doctor. As regards the purchase of vaccines by occupational health services, in April 2021 the FAGG asked the companies concerned for information on the orders already placed. At that time, 373 000 vaccines had already been ordered by occupational health services. With respect to the questions raised by Mr. Prévot and Ms. Farih and Ms. Merckx, I can state that the Supreme Council of Health concluded on 16 September 2021 that the covid-19 vaccine and the seasonal influenza vaccine can be administered simultaneously. Although the opinion still needs to be formalized, the conclusion was communicated on 22 September 2021 to the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health, which took note of it. A ComFluCOV study, founded by the National Institute for Health Research, was conducted in England out of 650 participants. Preliminary results from this study showed that co-administration is generally well tolerated, without reducing the immune response to either vaccine. The question of whether it is desirable and necessary to grant pharmacists the right to administer the flu vaccine is an interesting question and is part of the debate on the role of pharmacists in our health care. In an interview with Radio 2 I said today that we decided in principle that we also want to allow the pharmacist to administer the covid vaccine itself. In the first instance, this will be done with the covid vaccine. I wouldn't want to extend that immediately to the flu vaccine. That is a sensitive issue. You may remember our debates on this in the womb of this committee. So we need to move forward step by step. I hope to soon be able to come up with a legislative initiative which would allow the pharmacist to administer covid vaccines.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When I look at the situation on the ground, I see that, unlike last year, there is no shortage of pharmacists to date. I am therefore concerned about whether we will achieve the required vaccination rate. Maybe people are more concerned with the covid vaccine than with the flu vaccine. There is therefore no doubt that there is still a need to raise awareness about this issue. Secondly, in your opinion, pharmacists can rely on age or on the file. If they're in doubt, they should go to the doctor after all. I really regret that, as a whole identification system has been developed for the corona vaccines for the risk groups. We have those records, but they're not used for the flu vaccine. That's way out of my league. I really don't understand. The corona and flu shot could also be given together. A lot of people need to get a third dose now, but it hasn't been thought about doing that with the flu shot. That too is beyond my control. People in this country really keep working side by side. Things that can happen together are not planned together. For the general practitioners it is an enormous nuisance to organize the corona and flu vaccination at the same time as the whole test strategy. So I think that's a missed opportunity, and there's still a lot to say about it. Finally, will the third-payer scheme apply to the covid vaccine or the flu vaccine? It is certainly a step forward, but the third-payer scheme is not free. The covid vaccine should be free. It should be the same for the flu vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that the notice still needs to be formalized, but that the third dose of covid vaccine could be given at the same time as the seasonal influenza vaccine. This opinion was first communicated on 22 September, if I understand your answer correctly, at a Council of Ministers. Ideally, but unfortunately, we do not function in an ideal world, especially since the onset of this crisis, it would have been better to be able to start administering both the third dose and the seasonal flu for several weeks already. Personally, my parents will receive their third dose of covid vaccine this Saturday. I think they would have been happy to be vaccinated at the same time against seasonal flu. On the other hand, there is another element that is part of your thinking: you have considered the possibility that pharmacists can vaccinate. This could be a response to some general practitioners, who sometimes complained about being overwhelmed with vaccines. If the reflection is coming to your office, you will come back very soon to tell us about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u40	Mr Minister, as Mrs Merckx said, a lot of people are working on the corona vaccine today, so that the focus on the flu vaccine disappears somewhat. I would therefore like to call for greater awareness on this issue. We hear from doctors and hospitals that a lot of patients come in with respiratory infections and other types of viral infections. I suspect that the flu will enter firmly in the coming months, and we must therefore make every effort to avoid hospitalisations. As far as the role of pharmacists is concerned, I think it is very good that we are taking a step forward with the corona vaccine. We saw during the epidemic that the pharmacists played their social role very well. Patients who were afraid to sit in the GP's waiting room found their way to the pharmacy easier. We are not reaching the vaccination rate imposed by the World Health Organisation today. As far as pharmacists and general practitioners are concerned, it is not an en-of-story, but an en-and-story. I really believe in the combination of both and in the complementary role of the pharmacy in raising the vaccination rate. I hope that we will also be able to take steps forward in the area of influenza vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u41	Minister, on 14 September I questioned you about tracing policy and the adaptation to variants. I asked if there was any modification of the tracking policy to the delta variant. The microbiologist André tried to go back seven days instead of two days to detect an individual infection. Is our current search policy up to the arrival of the new variants? Has the seven-day proposal been discussed? In the meantime, a study by the KU Leuven has also been published in which seven days were returned. That study achieved good results. You said that this was already happening effectively, that seven days had already gone back. However, the website https://www.corona-tracking.info/ is still in the operator's script that there is a two-day return. Do the coronatracer now go back two days or seven days in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u42	The call center scripts were modified to follow the advice of the RAG and the RMG and the IMC's decision to extend the backward tracing. More specifically, Q9 returns to 14 days to identify a suspected source. Priority shall be given to identifying events or activities as a potential source of contamination, in particular where multiple infections can be associated with the same event, in order to encourage potentially infected attendees to be tested and, in particular, to prevent the further spread of new or still limited circulating VHCs. In particular, this shall be done within a 10-day time window for the identified infection. However, I must say that through the systematic opening of society, the ongoing vaccination campaign and the use of the CST, this strategy has become less relevant, because on the one hand the number of potential contamination sites has increased while on the other hand a large part of the contacts has been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u43	Minister, you did not really answer the questions I asked, and I still read that the index patient is only asked to go back two days. So it is not adapted to the scientific advice to go back seven days. Your answer about that source research wasn't about that. From the outset, we have always criticised the bureaucratic way in which contact tracing is carried out and the fact that people do not go back far enough. However, the KU Leuven project has shown that going back seven days is really interesting. I note that our way of contact tracing is very bureaucratic and is not adapted to the situation, with the result that we are facing a fourth wave today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u44	Minister, I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u45	Your question is actually about the competence of the Minister of Finance. Since I also think the issue is very important, I am interested in health care, like you, and I can say the following after consultation with my good colleague in the finance department. Since September of this year, the FPS Finance has been engaged in numerous discussions with several healthcare professional organisations, reaching at least 20 to 30 parties. In order to avoid discussion with parties that could not yet be reached, the Central Administration Finance will draw up a circular after wide consultation with the sector, which should provide more clarity for all parties. My administration has also questioned the FPS Finance, also in view of the many questions it receives from healthcare professionals in the competent consultation bodies. The FPS Finance is currently preparing the circular. It hasn't been published yet. The necessary communication for all interested parties will be ensured and within reasonable time limits, before the design will be completed. The FPS Finance will publish a first draft of circular by the end of October of this year at the latest. The VAT measure will enter into force on 1 January. The FPS Finance guarantees me that the necessary communication will be provided, possibly also through the professional organisations. This will be agreed in good time in future, in consultation with the tax administration. What is the impact of the measure on private insurance? Certain adjustments may have an impact on the insurance arrangements. It is important to remember that certain benefits in kind will be subject to VAT and others will not, depending on the nature and purpose of the treatment concerned. The details of this will be reflected in the FPS Finance circular after further discussions between the FPS Finance and the insurance sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u46	In any case, Minister, it is a good thing that the representatives of most professions have now been consulted. That was absolutely not the case with the draft law. You state that you will be informed in good time. A first draft is ready in October 2021. However, when the measure becomes applicable in January 2022, care providers should be given sufficient time to adapt and, in particular, to inform their patients accordingly. After all, you refer to my question on private insurance. There is a lot of concern with parents who have taken out insurance, for example for orthodontics for children. For them too, time and clarity are important. We have talked about transparency very often in committee. I am therefore counting on you to follow up on this, including with your fellow Finance Minister, that real progress will be made in October 2021 and that those concerned will have at least one month to two months to adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u47	Madam President, Minister, this question dates from 17 September, the day on which the Consultative Committee last met. At that time it was decided that mouth masks were no longer mandatory in the restaurants and shops from 1 October and that the Länder could impose their own rules, even the mayors could do so. I have already expressed my displeasure at that cacophony. Today, of course, the situation has changed. A new meeting of the Consultation Committee will take place next Friday. And so I'm adjusting my question a little bit. We can see that the number of infections is increasing. The contact trackers aren't getting the ball working anymore. The high-risk contacts just get a text message, they don't get called anymore. In this way, we find ourselves in exactly the same scenario as last year, especially with regard to the follow-up of tests and tracing. The CLBs are also fighting the Beer Cay. The sounds there are also very disturbing, with regard to tracing in the schools but also about the fact that children miss a lot of lessons. What do you think of the current state of affairs? Do you really think it would be better to let regions and mayors decide for themselves rather than have a uniform approach? What do you think about the test capacity? The federal testing platform has been downsized to 3,000 tests a day. Is that enough? How are you going to ensure that the contact tracing doesn't fail again?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u48	Madam President, Minister, I am also going to amend my question a little bit, because it also dates back to the previous Consultative Committee. A meeting of the Consultative Committee will be on the agenda next week. A few minutes ago it was published that the Flemish government advocated a third booster shot for the entire population. How do you feel about that? How will you advise on this in the run-up to the next Consultative Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u49	Mrs Merckx, Mrs Depoorter, if I understand correctly, a question is being asked about the mouth masks and about the third booster. Those questions weren't very formulated, but I don't blame you. That is a new way of working, but I would like to answer that in such a way as to be useful to you. I repeat what I said earlier around the mouth masks. We have maintained, and this was a political balance, a general obligation on the last Consultative Committee to wear mouth masks on public transport throughout the Belgian territory. For the rest, we have left the policy on mouth masks to the Länder. You know that in Brussels and Wallonia, for example, there is a need for oral masks in shops, whereas in Flanders they did not want to do so. My personal opinion is that today we need to draw people's attention to the importance of mouth masks, without necessarily implying a general obligation. I'd like to make that difference. Especially in view of the coming flu season, it is useful for people to think about using a mouth mask. Especially when one feels sick, a mouth mask is a way of protecting other people when one enters a closed room. If people feel sick or think they have COVID-19, but still go to a shop, then it is actually a matter of prevention and therefore of courtesy towards other people that one wears a mouth mask. For someone who feels vulnerable and comes into a closed room amidst people he doesn't know and where distance is difficult, it can be a useful recommendation to wear a mouth mask. More generally, I think that, regardless of whether we need to go back to obligations, which is not in place today, we should ask ourselves whether we should not have some kind of culture where the mouth mask is an integral part of daily prevention in daily life. That's the right question, I think. That question is a bit tarnished because one has made the mouth mask a symbol of freedom or lack of freedom. I personally think that is a wrong approach. I think we should recommend people to wear the mouth mask when they come into a closed room where they don't feel safe. This is certainly true for people who, because of their age or other factors, are vulnerable or people who feel a little fluy and think that they may have COOVID-19. In that case, it is a matter of prevention and courtesy to others. We should have that reflex. This is different from re-establishing the mouth mask as a general measure in shops. That's not before today. So much for my personal vision of that. With regard to the third prick, I also read in the news that the Flemish Government expressed the wish that the entire population should receive a third prick. There has been no communication on this between the Flemish Minister of Health and myself, and this was also news to me. The decisions related to booster vaccines are taken by the Interministerial Conference on Public Health on the basis of scientific advice we receive from the High Health Council and the Task Force Vaccination, based on the evolving scientific insights regarding the efficacy of the vaccines and the strength and infectiousness of the virus. Currently, a booster vaccine is provided for immunocompromised patients and 65-plussers, also outside the residential care centres. This process is currently under way. We have asked the Supreme Health Council to consider what next steps should be taken. We have also explicitly asked the High Health Council to think about the caregivers and the persons with comorbidities. We have also made it clear that we would find it useful that we receive advice about people who received the vaccine from Janssen or AstraZeneca. The broader question, in this case when it will be necessary to give all Belgians a booster vaccine, we have not explicitly stated. Implicitly it is the High Health level, since we have asked to think about further steps. I think it might be useful to ask that question explicitly. When we get back together with the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, I have no problem with explicitly putting that question to the High Health Council. For the sake of clarity, such decisions are made on the basis of scientific advice. All Health Ministers have asked the High Health Council to issue a scientific opinion on a booster vaccine for caregivers and for people who are not yet 65 but who have comorbidities by the beginning of November. We are also interested in the opinion of the High Health Council on the vaccines of Janssen and AstraZeneca and whether, faster than with the other vaccines, a booster shot is needed. I am afraid to say when we will get an opinion on the latter. I expect the advice on the caregivers and the persons with comorbidities by the beginning of November. Implicitly the question has been asked to think about all further steps. But it is not a problem to explain that question, namely when a third shot would be needed for the whole population. I always insist on being particularly careful with public statements on the subject because science is evolving in this respect. The virus is new and it surprises us over and over again. The vaccines are also new. We're learning about it. They work particularly well, but the efficacy is of course not permanent, as with most vaccines. But I think it is important that we work on the basis of scientific consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u50	Minister, I did not get an answer to my question, because it was more about the decision that each region could actually apply its own rules. Did you think that was a good idea so far, the whole cacophony? Aren't you afraid? We already see the first consequences. Trackers can't follow. The CLBs can't follow. Can the federal testing platform handle the high number of tests? Are we not going to the same scenario as last year? Can you comment on that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u51	Can you repeat that last one? As you know, Mrs Merckx, history is very interesting, but I do not do much about it. I do not often return to the past: how was that decision made, why was that decision made? If that's useful, I will, but I'd rather look ahead. And what was your second question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u52	In the decisions that have been taken, everyone had to make their own decisions. In this respect, therefore, you do not look at history. In addition, there is now the overload of tests. Trackers can't follow, and the federal testing platform is actually downsized. Is there enough test capacity now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u53	We also follow what happens in terms of testing. As you know, there is a lot of discussion today about the difficulty in schools. This also depends on the quarantine, which we will discuss in the IMC Public Health in the next week. You also know that in about ten days' time I hope to have freed the doctors from writing a certificate for someone who needs a test and is symptomatic. I hope to find a solution to that. In addition, we also follow up on the test capacity itself. That's what we're following. I cannot tell you any more about this today, but of course we are following it. Also the contact detection and contract tracing is not evident. I have just spoken very briefly about this. I will not repeat that, but of course we are also in agreement with our colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u54	Madam President, Minister, I would like to repeat briefly. You say you don't want to look back.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u55	Mrs Merckx, (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u56	Madam Chair, the minister did not answer my question. He only answered Ms. Depoorter's questions. That's why I asked. I don't think the minister has paid any attention. Mr Minister, the only thing I see effectively is that you say you do not want to look back. However, that is precisely the problem, namely that no lessons are learned from the mistakes made and that they are made again. Now it was thought that the problems would be resolved. Each region would apply its own rules. However, there are thousands of commuters commuting between Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders. The population is in contact with each other. The whole cacophony of rules everywhere, as well as the bureaucratic way in which the tracing takes place, means that we are once again facing the same problems as in 2020, hopefully with not so many deaths and not so many overloaded people in the second line. In the first line, however, the situation is completely unsustainable. The GPs have been letting you know for a long time. I find that the cacophony remains. The virus doesn't take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u57	Minister, I personally agree with you on the masks. I am convinced that it is up to you to decide whether you want to wear a mouth mask to protect yourself or its environment from colds, covids or anything else that is your own choice. We must leave that to the people. The Flemish government expressed the wish to roll out the third prick globally. The question of a general third injection has apparently not yet been asked by the Supreme Health Council. We can still refer to many examples from abroad. Like you, I'm very curious about the advice for the caregivers. After all, there is great concern, including about the comorbidities and about Johnson and Johnson. All these things were already known. It is a pity that we are lagging behind in the questioning of the global third prick. The question has been asked implicitly, but it might have been better to set up a timing and ask explicitly for an answer before the end of the year. For example, vaccination centres and the first line would be ready and people would be reassured. That's all that matters. Our people need to know where we're going and what the scientists are advising us on. Perhaps we should ask that question rather urgently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u58	Of course, we talk about this informally with our experts all the time. They have always said so far that they do not see any indication of the roll-out of the third prick for the whole population. On the other hand, we know that vaccines often need to be renewed, depending on the type of vaccine and the infectious disease. That's not surprising. The question then is when a meaningful scientific advice can be given. On the basis of what we have heard informally from the experts, we cannot get any useful advice here and now. In the meantime, there are elements that allow us to say something about specific target groups. Based on studies from abroad, not from our own country, we get new insights about the duration of the effectiveness of the Janssen vaccine. At that time, an authority such as the Supreme Health Council can be asked for an opinion. There will certainly come a time when we can ask for an opinion on a third shot for the whole population. Next Wednesday, the IMC Public Health will be back together. I have no problem asking that question. Nor was there any obstacle for my Flemish colleague from Health to inform us that they want to ask that question. That would have been perfectly possible, and we would have asked that question straight away to the High Health Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u59	Minister, you yourself say that our country started vaccination later. So we're always a little behind on overseas. We can go there and see how it goes and how long the vaccines will give us immunity. So we could have anticipated and already looked at the need to ask the Supreme Health Council whether the entire population needs that vaccine or not. You are prepared to put that on the agenda next week. I'll be sure to ask about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u60	Minister, on 10 September we received an update of the Sciensano procedures. It was stated that fully vaccinated individuals with possible symptoms of covid may now also be tested with a rapid Ag test. As for unvaccinated individuals, symptoms should have occurred recently, i.e. less than five days ago. It is no longer necessary to sequence all infections after vaccination. In patients requiring hospitalisation, however, a PCR test is still carried out, regardless of vaccination status. My questions relate to the fact that an increasing number of antigen tests are being used. How many general practitioners are running rapid antigen tests today to diagnose covid? Do you have any idea the extent of the use of rapid antigen tests for diagnosis? How does the number of antigen tests relate to the number of PCR tests for covid diagnosis? Today the antigen tests can also be performed by pharmacists, but in that setting they are not refunded. Are you thinking of a refund for conducting these tests by the pharmacists? Finally, how many pharmacists are already carrying out rapid antigen tests today?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u61	As far as the first question is concerned, all general practitioners today have the opportunity to perform rapid antigen tests and report the results via a specific form available in their software package. 5,000 to 7,000 test results are sent weekly by the general practitioners. With regard to the second question, 35,000 to 40,000 test results of rapid antigen tests are reported every week. I therefore assume that this gives an indication of its use for diagnosis. As for your question about the ratio, antigen tests represent between 10% and 16% of the reported test results in Belgium. Pharmacists are already being switched on for the reduction and reading of refunded rapid antigen tests, for diagnosis in symptomatic patients. This is done as a pilot project in 327 pharmacies. Depending on its evaluation and on its further needs, this could be extended. Since early July, 2,375 pharmacists have already taken rapid tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u62	Mr Minister, you did not say how many general practitioners carry out rapid antigen tests, but perhaps you do not have those data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u63	I have said that 5,000 to 7,000 test results are sent by the general practitioners, but the person who prepared the answer has not grouped the numbers by general practitioner, probably because he could not. That's why I didn't give the number of general practitioners in my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u64	That's too bad. I believe that the number of antigen tests used to diagnose COVID-19 is still far too low. I do not know why the project with reimbursed tests at the pharmacists is still a pilot project, but we certainly need to use it to relieve the burden on the general practitioners and to speed up diagnosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u65	Merged questions Nos 55020920C by Mr De Caluwé and 55022116C by Mrs Jiroflée were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u66	Mr Minister, in order to save time, I would refer to the text of my questions as tabled for both questions. With some of my sub-questions I also ask for figures. If it is easier or less time-consuming for you, I agree that you answer these sub-questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u67	Mr Creyelman, I can give you the answer to paper. If you submit your questions as a written question, the answer can also be published officially.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u68	Mr Minister, if you would explain a few words, I would be happy to accept the whole answer on paper or by e-mail. That is why, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, you have now answered my oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u69	Mr Creyelman, the federal stock includes surgical mouth masks, FFP2 and KN95 masks, isolation aprons, coveralls, phosphonate gloves, protective glasses and face screens. The volumes are in a long list of numbers, which I hand over to you. The stock is stored at a private logistics firm in Hoogstraten. The warehouses of that partner meet different requirements, including temperature and humidity. The responsibility lies with the FPS Public Health. Inspections shall be carried out as follows: There is a visual quantity check by the logistics firm upon receipt. The FAGG and the FPS Economy were responsible for checking the surgical mouth masks and the FFP2 and KN95 masks respectively by applying the so-called alternative test protocol. The inventory, supplied by the private partner, monitors the stock level and the associated shelf life data. There was also the question whether the Flemish part affects the federal stock. The federal strategic stock provides protective equipment to general and psychiatric hospitals, testing and purchasing centres, individual care providers and federal government departments. Therefore, the Flemish stock of care and welfare centres has no influence on this. We have no idea of Walloon initiatives. I would prefer to answer your other question in writing, because the answer contains quite a lot of details and references to council decisions. Is that okay? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u70	Minister, if I have understood correctly, you are indeed working on the strategic stock, both in terms of PPE and in terms of medicines and active ingredients. I'm assuming I haven't heard anything about you opting for a rotating stock system that Mrs De Block once wanted to initiate. You will therefore have to keep a close eye on the quality of our stock, so that we do not stand here again in two years' time to establish that the stock has been destroyed. I await the written part of your reply, and if I have any further questions, I will come back to that of course. Will you send me those answers by e-mail? I think that's the easiest thing to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u73	Mr President, Minister, this is part of a question I had already asked, but part of which was missing. It's about the FPS Public Health and its role in the corona pandemic. You've already provided me with a list of all the assignments the FPS had and still has in the management of that crisis. However, I think it is important that we also have a look at the exact staff profiles that are present or were present at the various services. Can you also give an overview of recent recruitments? It is important that we get a look at this so that we can draw certain conclusions or make recommendations with a view to managing a possible future crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, I have an answer, but it is impossible to read it out. I signed the written answer to your written question yesterday. I would like to give you the text now, but in any case you will receive it later if it has gone through the formal procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, you have every sympathy for that. It was indeed a written question which I had converted into an oral question because the deadline for reply had expired. I look forward to the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u76	Mr President, Minister, the coalition agreement reads as follows: "In cooperation with the Länder, primary health care needs to be restored and further strengthened. Within the funding of the first line, we promote the components that encourage cooperation and preventive and targeted action. We are also committed to promoting the role of primary health care in particular in terms of compliance and prevention." At the same time, we read the following in an opinion paper written by the President of the Flemish Pharmacy Network... with a great deal of attention to prevention. And there's the little shoe. Prevention is politically a matter for the Länder. However, these Länder do not have sufficient resources and profits return to the federal level. The same federal level that repeats over and over again that prevention is not in their procurement package." How do you reconcile the statement "The same federal level that repeats that prevention is not in their procurement package" with the objective of the government agreement? How do you intend to support prevention at federal level? What are the plans to increase the resources of the Länder? Are there any conversations about that at the moment? What steps have been taken over the past year to improve prevention in health care?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u77	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, the preventive health policy is, as you know, a competence of the Länder, with the exception of sickness and invalidity insurance and national measures on prophylaxis. The federal level, in particular the RIZIV, retains powers in the field of preventive care. Article 34 of the Co-ordinated Law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory medical care and benefits provides as follows: "Medical benefits cover both preventive and curative care." As a reminder, health prevention includes all activities that reduce future disease risks. There are generally three types of prevention: primary prevention refers to activities that reduce the risk of developing a disease, secondary prevention is associated with actions that reduce the severity of the disease when it begins, tertiary prevention includes activities aimed at reducing the risk of relapse or complications. We can also add quaternary prevention, consisting of as much rehabilitation as possible after a disease. The RIZIV is responsible for this. Preventive care is an integral part of the prevention strategy in all forms. The preventive contribution of the RIZIV concerns the limited context of personal contact between healthcare professional and patient. For example, tertiary prevention benefits are explicitly the responsibility of healthcare providers and are therefore financed by the RIZIV. This is particularly the case in certain dental examinations. In order to strengthen preventive care, the federal level invests in different projects in the framework of its powers or in cooperation with competent authorities on their demand and through the intervention of the RIZIV. In recent years, we have been able to highlight the development of various projects aimed at population groups with low access to health care, particularly vulnerable sections of the population. This includes in particular projects aimed at strengthening health skills, establishing an intermediate care line, supporting precarious pregnant women and introducing intercultural mediators in hospitals and the first line. The RIZIV shall also contribute to the financing of the screening organised in cooperation with the federated entities, which are responsible for it. These include organised screening for breast cancer, screening for colorectal cancer, screening for cervical cancer, screening for cystic acidosis, screening for congenital diseases. Some vaccinations, for example against flu and against COVID-19, are also financed at all or in part by the federal level. You know, for example, that we are funding 80% of the entire vaccination campaign, including all operational costs, against COOVID-19. Finally, the RIZIV also finances an information system dedicated to the state of health of the population, which documents risk factors that are harmful to health. A coherent prevention policy in Belgium is also being pursued in the framework of the IMC Public Health, in cooperation with the Länder. Creating a healthy environment will be an important dimension of health policy. In view of the priorities identified in consultation with the Länder, the following topics will be addressed in 2022, inter alia: neonatal screening; identification of policy initiatives necessary for the policy on sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV; transition from cytology to the HPV test for the early detection of cervical cancer. Everything related to problematic use of resources and behavioural addictions is also part of prevention at federal level, but is dealt with separately in the thematic meetings on drugs of the IMC Public Health. Here, too, an integrated policy for dealing with addictions is sought. Finally, my administration is also working on a federal food plan, which will include many structural measures that have a preventive effect, such as cooperation with industry to reduce salt and sugar in products. We are therefore striving for an integrated policy, where every level within its powers is working on a healthier lifestyle. At federal level, it is often about adapting regulations with a preventive effect. Think of the increase in excise duty on tobacco, the tightening of the rules on tobacco advertising, the introduction of nutriscore and so on. I have already discussed this in detail in response to previous questions. During the covid crisis, we also took measures to prevent the spread of infections. Think about hygiene measures, the vaccination campaign and so on. These actions shall be undertaken in synergy and complementarity with the existing system and with respect for the allocation of powers. If there are any doubts as to funding, we will go in consultation with the Länder to arrive at a proper distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u78	Minister, I will certainly have to chew your answer again, since you read it very quickly. You have not really answered my question as to what the plans are to give the Länder more resources. The problem is that the Länder invest in a prevention policy, but do not get the return. That is a problem that has been known for a long time now, but I would like to mention it here. It is good that this will certainly be taken into account in the discussions that your colleagues will have with regard to the next state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u79	Minister, social freezing is a technique to freeze gametes for non-medical reasons with the intention of using them later. Today, women at an increasingly later age become pregnant for the first time. More and more women resort to social freezing, as a result of longer studies, life choices or professional priorities. For social freezing there is so far no intervention from public, compulsory health insurance. The costs for the laboratory for assisted medical reproduction, stimulation medicinal products and egg storage shall be borne by the patient. Since social freezing is still an expensive medical procedure, it is also not financially accessible to everyone. Mr President, what are the reasons why no reimbursement has been foreseen for this intervention so far? Should the government make an effort to make social freezing financially accessible, to ensure that all sections of the population could have access to it in the future? Does a full or partial refund offer a solution here? What possibilities are there? At what time do you consider that feasible? Will you discuss social freezing with the relevant reproductive medicine care programmes?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u80	Social freezing of gametes is not covered by the insurance. The main reason for this is that RIZIV should be able to use its resources as a priority to meet the needs of patients who, for reasons of their state of health, have no choice in their situation and who, without medical intervention, would not have the opportunity to choose whether or not to have a child, regardless of the timeline of their parenting wish. For example, in the context of uncofreeing, priority is given to the use of the budget allocated to this problem for the management of pathological indications. These are cancer patients who are receiving treatment that is toxic to the reproductive organs or cells. An analogy can be made with the non-repayment by the RIZIV of aesthetic surgery due to personal life choices, as opposed to reconstructive surgery aimed at treating pathological situations. There are currently no plans to take measures to open up the reimbursement of onco-freezing to social freezing. The discussion on this subject is ongoing and is aimed at broadening the pathological indications set out in the remuneration agreement. The idea is to reduce the inequality between patients suffering from pathologies that deprive them of the chance to choose and healthy people, who are free to choose when they want to satisfy their desire for parenthood. Partial reimbursement is not at issue either; the budget remains available as a matter of priority for the extension of pathological indications. The discussions between the RIZIV and the various players in the healthcare programs relating to reproductive medicine are always open. Any problems can be submitted to the College of Medical Directors to discuss the different options and choices. Hospitals offering social freezing must, of course, respect all quality standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u81	Minister, for the non-pathological indications, I have also provided for various extensions, for those who cannot make the choice and who, as a result of certain treatments, have to rely on them to have a child later. You've been given a lot more money. I therefore assumed that a concession would be possible in certain circumstances, but that does not appear to be for immediate action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u82	Mr President, Minister, it is well known that the vaccination campaign is fundamental in the fight against covid. We are currently witnessing a deterioration of the situation, even if we do not have to do any catastrophism. The rate of intensive care occupancy is still relatively reasonable, but the number of infections is increasing and this third dose is of great interest, particularly for immunocompromised people, people with co-morbidities or older people over the age of 65. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that the nursing staff were vaccinated very early, more than six months ago, in January and February. It therefore seems to me that the third dose should be systematized with the healthcare staff, beyond the obligation of vaccination. If this requirement is declared, the third dose should be included six months after the second dose. That seems important to me. Minister, what is the program for those under the age of 65? The Supreme Council of Health has met or is to meet. What is your view of this third dose for the population as a whole within six months of the second dose? I now come to an important debate which was not included in the text of my question. Minister, you made a statement on vaccination by pharmacists. I insist on the consistency of the messages. In vaccination centres, a physician was required to be present in response to possible side effects and patients were required to stay for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes on site. Should you allow vaccination by pharmacists, will there be a doctor in each pharmacy where these vaccines would be administered? I find this difficult to implement. I would like to see consistency in the messages. Should patients be asked to stay there after vaccination? Is the presence of a specialist physician required? What is the consistency of the message of allowing pharmacists to vaccinate in pharmacies without the presence of a doctor?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u83	I refer to the written version of my question, because the Minister has already dealt extensively with the third corona prick.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u84	I also refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u85	Mr Bacquelaine, you raised a question that was not prepared. I have indeed raised the idea of allowing pharmacists to administer covid vaccines themselves. It is a decision in principle that was taken at an interdepartmental public health conference. In discussions on the vaccination strategy, we felt that it would be useful to allow pharmacists to administer covid vaccines, but not other vaccines. I remember very well your interventions during the debate on prescription of covid vaccine by pharmacists. You pointed out that it was delicate, that there could be conflicting interests. Your intervention was, moreover, useful and I realize that you have concerns of this kind as well with regard to quality. I believe, however, that it is possible to allow pharmacists to help with vaccination by vaccinating in pharmacies themselves people who present themselves for vaccination against covid. You are right to point out that, if such legislation passes and I propose to introduce legislation, it must be accompanied by the same guarantees, as regards surveillance, etc., as those present in vaccination centres or in a medical office. It's essential. We'll get back to it. But given the pressure on general practitioners, it is important to take action because the situation becomes extremely difficult for them to manage. Anyway, that's my opinion. With respect to the third dose, the Supreme Council of Health was asked about the desirability of a third dose for caregivers and persons under the age of 65 with co-morbidities. We will receive the CST's opinion on these two target groups no later than 3 November. In the meantime, the Supreme Council of Health is also addressing the issue of the efficacy of the Johnson&Johnson vaccine, which is known, not from our experiments, but from studies from abroad, that the effectiveness of this vaccine is rapidly decreasing, which may require a second dose. This may require a second dose after the single injection of Johnson&Johnson. The Supreme Council of Health (SHC) will also look at this. There are also questions about the sustainability of the specific impact of AstraZeneca. This question, if I am not mistaken, is under consideration within the CSS. On 3 November, I will receive a notice regarding caregivers and adults under the age of 65 with co-morbidities. I believe that the opinion regarding the health care staff will be positive. If that is the case, I believe that this campaign will have to be launched immediately. Caregivers have the right to optimal protection. Obviously, as always, scientific advice and procedures must be used. That's why I'm not going to decide now. This is not your request. But if there is an opinion in this direction by 3 November at the latest, it will be necessary immediately to decide and launch this optimal protection campaign for healthcare workers. For the general population, those who are not 65 years old, have no co-morbidity and do not work in the care sector, a somewhat open question has been formulated at the CSS. In a very open manner, he was asked to reflect on the next steps. This expression "following steps" allows the CSS to also decide on the general population. In fact, I think he is now focusing on people with co-morbidities, the caregivers, Johnson&Johnson, AstraZeneca. It may be useful to explicitly ask the CSS to look at the general population when considering the issue of the vaccine booster dose. I have just learned that the Flemish government also wants to ask this question about the general population. We will probably ask this question explicitly to the CSS.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answer. As far as the third dose is concerned, I am quite following you. With regard to vaccination by pharmacists, I really insist that there be a message focusing on patient safety. In vaccination centres, we asked patients to stay a certain amount of time before leaving. We cannot give up this same requirement of medical surveillance in the context of vaccination in pharmaceutical clinics. I think we really need to stress the consistency of the message and the patient's safety. I also wonder whether it would not be appropriate to obtain a record of the number of medical interventions within 20 minutes of vaccination in vaccination centres since March in Belgium. Perhaps you have this document? It would be interesting to know this figure, which would allow us to measure the need for intervention and medical surveillance of this vaccination. I thank you for your further clarification in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u87	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must not act hastily. We must base ourselves on scientific insights. On the other hand, the first-line zones must be clarified as soon as possible. First they got the message that they had to phase out and then they had to extend their operation. The signal for the extension has now come from Flanders. I believe that you are now facing a difficult exercise, together with the regions, but I am sure you will get out. Good luck with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u88	Mr President, Minister, for the past few weeks, in hospitals and on social networks, medical assistants for specialists (MACS) have not hidden their discontent. In fact, they discovered the impact of the new collective agreement in their daily lives at the hospital. Some are deeply disappointed because they have lost several days off with this new contract. In the new labour agreement, there are only 20 days left per year. Previously, MACS could count on 30 days a year. It should also be noted that the 20 days of statutory leave are provided for a full-time period of 38 hours, while they often work up to 48 hours. In addition, the new agreement no longer provides for a maximum number of guards per month, as was the case in their previous contract. Already last June, they had drawn the authorities' attention to this aspect. The new contract for Medical Assistant Specialists results in a loss of 10 days' leave and the risk of an increase in the number of days on duty. New work stoppage actions could be carried out. The convention therefore does not fully achieve the intended purpose. Minister, what are you actually going to do to ensure a proper status for these medical assistants? What are the courses of action envisaged? Are there any new meetings with MACS associations planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u89	Mr Bacquelaine, I am very close to and with interest in the discussions in the Joint National Medical-Hospital Commission. I have also asked the President of the Commission to keep me regularly informed of the progress made. I asked Mr. De Cock to provide me with a report on the execution by hospitals of the decision to establish serious and standardized contracts because I learned that there was a willingness in some hospitals not to implement the agreement. I am not yet in possession of this report. This Joint Medical-Hospital Committee is competent to deliver opinions on all matters relating to the legal relations between hospital doctors and hospital managers. It is also empowered to conclude collective agreements. You referred to the collective agreement of May 19, 2021 on the conditions of remuneration and work of medical specialists in training. The latter have a complex status, which considers them to be self-employed under labour law, while at the same time partially providing them with the protection linked to the status of salaried worker under social security. Add to this that this status is complicated by the role of trainer of the trainee master who interferes in the classic employer-worker relationship. There are many aspects to this problem. There are topics relating to labour law, such as proper remuneration for various benefits and reasonable working hours with effective control. Attention should also be paid to the fact that medical specialists in training do not benefit from the provision of pensions or unemployment benefits. We'll have to fix it, I promised. Their situation in case of absence for illness is traditionally as precarious. Another concern is the strengthening of the quality of training. It is clear that more standardization is needed. The situation of medical specialists in training differs from one department to another, from one hospital to another, and sometimes also between the north and the south of the country. The collective agreement concluded in May does not provide answers to all outstanding questions. This is an agreement which provides a minimum framework on the aspects of remuneration and a standardised training contract. I stress that this is a minimum framework. The agreement provides for a minimum of 20 days of leave per year. I really regret that some hospitals interpret this as a maximum. It's not a maximum. It's a minimum. It was anecdotes such as this that prompted me to ask Mr. From Cock on what's going on at the hospital level. A FAQ section is prepared by the Commission and published on the FPS Public Health website. The aim of this text is to clarify the agreement on the basis of the questions put to the Commission and to ensure uniform interpretation and application of the collective agreement. This FAQ section should be updated regularly on the basis of the most recent questions and concerns. The problem will be further discussed and developed in a specific working group of the Joint National Medical-Hospital Commission where both hospitals and doctors and medical specialists in training are always represented. Through e-mail exchanges and discussions at the last meeting of the working group on 16 September, some of the elements you mention have already been discussed and discussed. In this regard, the Chair made it clear that the evolution of the collective agreement was a lengthy process. All the partners in the discussion have, of course, at all times the opportunity to submit their points of attention. A meeting of the working group was scheduled for Thursday, 18 October 2021. In the collective agreement and the accompanying opinion, it has always been made clear that the approved text is only a first phase of a comprehensive action plan aimed at improving the pay and working conditions and social protection of medical specialists in training and at ensuring social preconditions for the qualitative implementation of training for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I see that you are paying attention to this problem and I welcome it. We will also continue to pay particular attention to the status of medical assistants. I think this is part of the overall quality of hospital care. We have seen how necessary and useful these medical assistants were, to say the least, in the fight against covid-19. We owe them some consideration in this regard. I am therefore pleased that we can work together to develop a better status for these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u91	Minister, first aid ambulances were heavily tested during the pandemic. With nearly 10,000 jobs in Belgium, this sector plays a fundamental role in the organisation of our health care and, in particular, in the organization of urgent health care. It would appear that the 112 paramedics were in a marked shortage. There are too few candidates and many of the paramedics leave the profession relatively early. It is noted that after five to ten years, paramedics leave the trade, considering that they receive little consideration in relation to the importance of their profession. We will have to pay attention to this because we need first aid ambulances for our health care system and this would ultimately imply a correct salary adjustment. To what extent is it not necessary today to develop an action plan to promote the profession of ambulance and ambulance attendant and to ensure that this profession meets more attractive working conditions? We must combat this shortage and ensure that we have the best possible ambulance services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u92	Mr Bacquelaine, with regard to the working conditions and the experience of health professionals, I can confirm that I have contacts with the actors in the emergency ambulance profession, with their representative associations and with other representative associations of health professionals. I am well aware of the budgetary challenges in emergency medical aid which can certainly have an impact on the working conditions of ambulance workers. However, I do not want to make great promises, since I want to look at this dossier in its entirety. We need to move forward on the quality of services through accreditation standards that are currently being developed. We must then analyse the optimal supply to be expected and, finally, we must look at the budgetary needs. On the other hand, you are more than right when you say that the labour market situation of health professionals, whether they are paramedics, caregivers or nurses, is very similar and that it is a great challenge to improve the attractiveness of the health care sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to draw your attention: perhaps it would be good to define a categorization of first aid ambulance workers, since many of them are sometimes sent a whole day on missions that are not really urgent. This is a problem in relation to the motivation of first aid ambulance workers. It might therefore be useful, in the context of emergency medical aid and ambulance policy, to differentiate between actual emergencies and missions which are more likened to the transport of sick persons. There is sometimes a confusion of roles that demotifies a number of first aid ambulance workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u94	Minister, this question is outdated and has already been dealt with, but if you have any additional information, I would be glad to hear it. I therefore refer to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u95	Mrs Sneppe, perhaps it is useful that I repeat some very precise things. It is a pity that you were not present during the wider debate just now. Firstly, the Inter-Ministerial Conference has set out the following. Firstly, all individuals aged 65 and over are offered a booster mRNA vaccine. For this type of vaccine, the clinical studies on booster effects are the most robust and convincing. That booster vaccine is offered at least four months after the second injection of AstraZeneca or the only injection of Johnson & Johnson vaccine and at least six months after the second injection of Pfizer or Moderna vaccine. In practice, most people aged 65 and over will thus be invited to their booster shot before the end of this year. Secondly, a booster vaccine is also offered to patients and older residents of residential care centres, assistance homes, day care centres, psychogeriatric facilities and psychiatric care homes. Thirdly, a third dose has been offered to people from 12 years of age with reduced immunity since the end of September. To this all people with Down syndrome are now added, even if they are younger than 65. Studies show that they have a more limited immunity response and should therefore receive a third dose. You asked when the general practitioners will be informed and if they will administer the vaccines from 15 October. These pricks will mainly be administered in the vaccination centres. As before, mobile teams with general practitioners will be used for patients who cannot come to the vaccination centre for medical reasons. The combination with the flu shot is as follows. The extra shot or booster and the flu vaccine can be administered perfectly simultaneously. It is up to the Communities and the first-line zones to organise this logistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for getting this straight. Your answer does not contain many new elements, because we have been able to read a lot in the press and you have already mentioned a lot in the previous debate. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u97	Minister, on a regular basis, Sciensano produces reports on, among other things, the hospitalisation of covid patients. At some point, the agency stopped mentioning the vaccination status of the included covid patients, because, for example, Sciensano gives a reason, not all hospitals take part in hospital surveillance anymore, which would result in a certain amount of data missing. My question dates back some time ago. Meanwhile, it has been found and confirmed by Sciensano that 70% of patients admitted to hospital because of COVID-19 are not known about vaccination status, at least not in Sciensano. Where are the hospitals that no longer participate in surveillance located? Is there any reason for that? Which one? How is it that other rather detailed data, such as the underlying diseases, are displayed? Are these data also sometimes not representative and are there even a limited number of patients from whom we have such data? Finally, according to the Commission for Access to Administrative Documents, the information provided to Sciensano by the hospitals is publicly available. Where can they be consulted? Who decides what is made public and does the Public Health Office have a certain input in that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u98	Mr Minister, one of Sciensano's previous epidemiological reports says that hospitals no longer pass on vaccination status. However, the Prime Minister recently claimed that the pandemic is one of non-vaccines. According to his sources, most covid patients in hospitals would be non-vaccines. The report also states that the proportion of hospitalised patients with unknown vaccination status is 71%. That raises a lot of questions. Can you give us an overview of which hospitals are participating in clinical surveillance and which are not? Does the government have more information on the vaccination status of hospitalized patients than Sciensano? Prime Minister De Croo stated at the press conference after the Consultation Committee on 17 September that the epidemic is becoming one of the non-vaccines and that the departments are intensive care gathering sites of non-vaccines. On the basis of what figures does the government make these statements? How many of the victims who died of COVID-19 were fully vaccinated, how many of them were partially vaccinated and how many were not vaccinated, broken down according to co-morbidity or not? I would like to get an overview of these dates since 1 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u99	First of all, there is a need to correct the situation. It is certainly not a reproach to the newspaper concerned, but I read in a newspaper this morning that we do not know the vaccination status of 71 percent of the people who have been hospitalized. You have both referred to that. That's out-of-date information. That's not right anymore. That information was in the last weekly report of Sciensano and was based on data for the week from 13 to 19 September, data that are somewhat older themselves, because they are delivered with greed. In those older data there was indeed an unknown status for 71 percent of patients. Fortunately, that is no longer the case. Today we know much better which of the hospitalized patients has been vaccinated and who hasn't. So, day after day, we can distinguish between the figures between the non-vaccines and the vaccinees. Furthermore, it is annoying with such questions, which are certainly justified, that they are already being dealt with with with delay and that the information in my answer is already a few days old. We always have new and better information. I would therefore like to refer to the press briefing this morning by the Government Commissioner, Mr Facon. He has made available the most recent data on the relationship between vaccinees and non-vaccines in hospitals and on intensive care. I'll give you that as a background. You asked if you could get an overview of the hospitals that are participating in clinical surveillance and which are not. I have an overview for August 2021. This shows that less than 30% of patients were affected in the provinces of Limburg, Liège, Luxembourg and Brussels. In other provinces that percentage was much higher, especially with September included. I can give you a full table, but I won't read it to you. The table refers to July, August and September. For example, for Flemish Brabant it was 100 %, while for Antwerp it was 86 %. The vaccination status by age group in the hospitalized patients can be found on the website of Sciensano. On 23 September, we asked federal health inspections to contact all hospitals to get a really good snapshot of all covid patients in hospitals and their vaccination status. We got a lot of information out of that. We also know a little bit more about the deaths. However, we do not have information on the cause of death and the presence of comorbidities among vaccinees in the general population. So it is not so easy to give a very precise answer. The following information dates from 15 October. Based on non-exhaustive clinical surveillance of hospitals until 28 September, there were 2,145 deaths from COVID-19 among hospitalised covid patients. Of these 2,145 deceased patients, 104 or 4.8 % were fully vaccinated, 349 or 16.3 % were partially vaccinated and 1,692 or 78.9 % were not vaccinated. That says something about the importance of vaccination. Of the 104 fully vaccinated deceased patients, we have information on comorbidities for 89 patients. Of these, 86 had, almost all of them, at least one comorbidity. Of the 1,692 unvaccinated deceased patients, we have information on comorbidities for 1,378 people. Of these, 1,247 were with at least one comorbidity. That's a lot, too. So it can actually be said that both the vaccinees and the non-vaccines had at least one comorbidity in the vast majority of the deceased hospitalised patients. I think I can say that the vaccines are very effective, but not at 100%. That's the case with every vaccine. However, this brings me to a great deal of information, and you know that it evolves from day to day. People with comorbidities are more vulnerable, much more vulnerable even if they have not been vaccinated, but unfortunately also when they have been vaccinated. When the virus is circulating as strongly as it is today, we have to tell the population to be careful. That certainly applies to the vulnerable. Mrs Gijbels, I repeat, but there is a good reason why we have asked the High Health Council to consider specifically in the forthcoming opinion the need for a booster vaccine for the younger part of the population with a comorbidity. There are good reasons for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u100	You do not need to convince me of the usefulness of a vaccine, which is why I am sorry that there has been unclear communication for so long, especially about the hospitalised covid patients. You say that the information is outdated and that you now have recent information on the vaccination status of hospitalized patients. Sciensano hasn't reported on that for a long time. I don't understand that, because people who are suspicious of vaccination or who don't believe in it just feed. I believe that this should be communicated quite correctly and transparently. The gap in the data provided has only increased the distrust in the vaccinations and in the government. Fortunately, the situation is now in order, but I regret that it took so long before the problem was remediated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u101	It is painful that, for the umpteenth time in this crisis, the information failed, not to mention the fact that we are hacking back when it comes to the right figures. What information did the Prime Minister base himself on in order to make such a statement? His statement has proved to be correct in the end, now that we have the correct data. But he couldn't have known that at the time. I do not think it is right for a head of state to make such a statement, which causes discord among the population, his eleven million-dollar team. I thought it was a very strange and painful statement. Anyway, we are pleased that better figures are now available. We will take our time to look at this carefully and, if necessary, ask you any further questions about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u102	Mr Prévot, I have a problem because I only have tables and dozens of figures. It's a little difficult. I don't have to give them to you. There are no comments to make. I suggest that you pass them on to you immediately through the secretariat. I know that this may be a small problem in terms of settlement, but it will be much more instructive. You can, of course, if you want, then convert your question into a written question. But so, you will already have the answer. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u103	Minister, that suits me perfectly. This is a subject on which I am working, possibly, to table a motion for a resolution. I'm particularly interested in the numbers. There's nothing to worry about. This way of working suits me perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u104	I will do so through the secretariat in such a way that everyone can learn about it. You can have this information and use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u106	Question No 55021170C by Mrs Sofie Merckx is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u107	Mr Minister, I asked a written question on this, but I still did not receive an answer. That is why I am now asking a follow-up question orally. She's a little dated, but I still want to ask them. During the period from 7 September 2021 to 13 September 2021, according to Sciensano, an average of 43.182 tests were carried out on a daily basis. Most of these tests were analysed by clinical laboratories, a minority by the federal testing platform. Clinical laboratories currently have sufficient capacity to absorb the share of the federal testing platform. However, that federal testing platform is still receiving a flat-rate fee for 112,000 tests per week that has already been changed. You said in May that we should consider the mandate of the federal testing platform in the next stages of the pandemic. It will have to evolve and the financial mechanisms must be reviewed. Has the role of the federal testing platform evolved and evaluated in recent months? Have any adjustments been made to the financing? You have already made it clear that this is indeed the case. How many tests are carried out every week by the federal testing platform, with an overview per week and per lab? How much more has each lab received, since no 112,000 tests per week have been passed at any time? What is the flat-rate allowance for the centre entrusted with the research and provision of expertise for the quality monitoring systems, the validation of specific material and the supervision of the overarching organisation of the processes referred to in the Royal Decree of 22 November 2020? The same KB also states that the federal testing platform is temporary, in addition to the test capacity available in the approved clinical biology laboratories. Is the supplement still necessary? When will the federal testing platform end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u108	Mr Minister, my question is a follow-up to the interplay I had in plenary on this subject. There is still not much clarity about the use of the lump sums. So I have a few questions. How many people were hired per lab from the federal testing platform? Can you indicate the number of full-time equivalents per location, from the establishment of the platform until now? Have you had a look at the use of the funds allocated to the labs? Could they only be used to compensate staff or could they also cover other items? Was there a certain responsibility to it? In other words, are you already aware of the use of resources and can any surpluses be recovered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u109	I have indeed said a number of things in my answer to the question. Mr Creyelman is also right to say that much has already been written about this in the press. Mr President, may I assume that this is the last question, although I had previously promised to be present on this committee until 17:45? The press would like another response from me to this afternoon's debate. That is, by the way, a good appreciation of what has been discussed in committee. Has the role of the federal testing platform evolved? The answer is yes. As I said in the discussion with Mrs Gijbels, the clinical laboratories, outside the federal testing platform, have developed much more capacity. As a result, the federal testing platform is playing a different role in buffer capacity. The laboratories of the federal platform still play a role in the large-scale screening of collections, at the request of the regional health authorities, in the processing of the samples of 54 test centres. They also play an important role in the analysis of the variants or group of companies. By the way, just today I get some alarming reports from various quarters about the test capacity available. Apparently, the concern over whether we have enough test capacity is resurrected. Mrs Gijbels, that is how we actually end up in the application of a discussion we have already had, in particular on the question of when everyone is asking for more testing capacity versus when everyone says that there is far too much testing capacity, which costs too much money. Today, therefore, it seems that we are falling back on concerns about a possible lack of test capacity. Mrs Sneppe, you are asking if the funding has been adjusted. That's exactly what happened. The Insurance Committee has decided that monthly fixed financing will be reduced from 1 October. With regard to the tests, I have a table showing the maximum number of tests, the average and the median for each of the eight laboratories. For example, for the UCL 4.970, for Namur 2.804, for ULB 4.071, for Liège 9.120, for Mons 2.709, for UZA 10,000, for Ghent 3.956 and for Leuven 2.764. Liege and the UCL have been pooled about the consortium. These are the registered limits. The averages are a lot below that. Those are indeed the figures on which the criticism is based. The averages are between very low, 795 for Namur, and relatively high, 1,861 for Antwerp. The median is low for Namur, with 694, to high for Antwerp, with 1,613. You can get the table with the numbers. As I've just given you, there's one lab that, on average, has gone well above 2,000 tests at certain times. What is the flat-rate allowance for the centre in charge of research and the provision of expertise for quality assurance and validation systems? That's 20,500 euros a month. Mrs. Sneppe, you're asking when the federal testing platform will be terminated. An evaluation report of the federal platform makes a risk-cost analysis that states that the federal platform remains necessary in certain scenarios where more testing will take place in the coming months than today. If the same or fewer tests are carried out, we can meet the demand within the existing laboratories. The report examines different scenarios. However, based on the risk-cost analysis, it is proposed to keep the platform still open. A new evaluation will be made at the end of 2021. Mrs Gijbels, at the level of the RIZIV we have no figures of the number of FTEs per location. The flat-rate fee shall be used for operating costs, namely staff and equipment necessary for the daily volume to be carried out. So far, we have not questioned the use of this compensation. I think I got you the numbers. According to Het Laatste Nieuws, a unilateral closure of the testing platform would cost the government a lot of money, so the question is whether we should cancel that agreement unilaterally. No, and I refer to the risk-benefit analysis. The Latest News also says that it would cost EUR 6.5 million if the testing platform were stopped. However, by mutual agreement, termination does not entail termination fees. However, a notice period of three months is provided for which the fixed cost is also paid. When you ask whether I was already aware of the fact that the contract is still running for another year and that the contract is prematurely terminated with a huge cost, the answer is yes. Why was a two-year contract concluded with the labs? The contracts were drawn up in the course of September-October 2020 in the run-up to the second wave, where the test capacity was clearly inadequate. At that time it seemed obvious to say that we would go for two years, with the necessary termination mechanisms, as indicated earlier. I think I have already answered the question of recovery in the interplay. As for the question of whether I can see what happened to the millions that the labs received too much, staff employed in the labs where the expected number of tests was not achieved, they also used to carry out other tasks, such as detecting virus variants through PCR tests and genome analyses. The labs of the federal platform carried out about 80 % of PCR tests for the detection of virus variants, while no other fee was paid. I have no idea how resources are further distributed within the members of the federal platform. I rushed over, but you can have my papers so you can see my entire preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u110	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I would indeed like to have your preparation, to re-chew everything properly. As I said, my question was actually a bit dated. Yet you have given us up-to-date information. What I keep wondering is whether we should no longer focus on diversity in testing? Now the PCR test is mainly used, and also a bit on the rapid antigen test. I remember from the covid committee that Professor Goossens was improving a saliva test. Apparently we don't hear about that anymore? I also read something in the press about a breath test. I sometimes wonder why we are always betting on one horse instead of broadening the test strategy. That might be food for another question. I will try to put that question in a nice description so that you can answer it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even though I am a little disappointed. I really would have thought that the government would understand how the funds we have allocated as a community to these laboratories have been spent. After a month or two, feedback should be asked from those labs, to see if it wasn't too much money and if they could do it with less, as it turned out to be effective? The estimate was that 40 full-time equivalents were needed to get the number of tests requested, but just the lab that analyzed most of the tests did it with only 22 FTEs. That is barely more than half and yet they have received that amount. I find it very disappointing that it has simply gone through without any control and without any advance implementation of any control. I regret that the taxpayer has to see how his hard-earned money is dealt with. Apart from this question, I am also sorry that the Minister considers the press to be higher than the representatives of the people and democratic control. After all, we could have continued with a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u112	First of all, I would like to endorse Mrs Gijbels' comment on the use of resources. I regret that we have no idea what the funds have been spent on. It is not about the proverbial five cents. On the other hand, I am pleased that you would like to make your full preparation available to us. In that connection, I am waiting for a message from your employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u113	We'll let you leave, Minister. We won't keep the press waiting. We have dealt with some 30 questions from the hundred today. So we're still in the middle of catching up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u114	I repeat that I would like to start at 7 a.m., Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-10-22-definitief-55-commissie-ic613x.u115	We also need to think about the services.
