ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u1	Mrs. Vindevoghel is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u2	Madam Minister, in mid-November, the Flemish Ombudsman Bart Weekers in Knack made a plea to make Internet access a basic need. A sound and stable Internet connection is an essential requirement for further digitisation. There is also an increasing use of teleworking and distance learning as a result of the corona measures. However, there are locations where the internet connection is anything but stable and even disappears several times a day, even for the most expensive business subscriptions. In our country, we have almost the most expensive subscriptions in Europe, both for the Internet and for telephony, while many people are finding it increasingly difficult to pay the bills. It is about people who are now obliged to sit at home and therefore have less income, but whose children do need the Internet for education. However, if there is no money to pay the bills at the end of the month, the Internet connection can be closed. This government is heavily committed to digitalisation, and the internet is becoming increasingly important in our everyday lives as well. Hence my questions. How many people have experienced problems paying their Internet connection in the last three years? Is that number stable? What impact do the corona measures and the possible loss of income for families have on this? How many people have the Internet connection been effectively shut down in the last three years? What evolution is there in those numbers? What are your views on this issue? Are you open, for example, to regard Internet access as a basic requirement? Would you like to see the slope of the minimum service as an additional protection for the consumer? Are you planning any other initiatives in this area? If so, which one? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the questions must be read out in full today. You may not refer to the questions submitted in writing, because of problems with the computer system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u4	Mr Gilissen, I had planned a combined answer for your question and Mrs Vindevoghel's question, but I will of course only answer your question. Indeed, it is of unmistakable importance, especially in these covid times, that everyone can count on access to a stable Internet connection in order to participate in society. As far as your questions about closing the Internet connection are concerned, it is important to point out the rights that consumers have. Article 119 of the telecoms Act lays down the procedure to be followed by operators in the event of default. Before they are allowed to break the service, they must observe certain steps, such as sending a prior warning or setting up a minimum service. Operators should therefore not simply stop their services if people cannot pay their invoices at the end of the month. Nevertheless, I realise that paying all kinds of invoices, including the internet bill, can be a structural problem for certain families. This can lead to repeated defaults. The system of social rates exists for these structural problems. Certain categories of vulnerable groups can thus receive a tariff discount for fixed internet and fixed telephony services. Later in this sitting, I may come back to the reform of this system in response to questions from Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Depraetere. Since the beginning of the crisis, operators have also taken several initiatives to promote wider access to the Internet, including Telenet's Essential Internet package for 5 euros per month, intended for families who are struggling and therefore unable to pay for a fixed Internet connection. Mr Gilissen, for the figures you are asking for, my services have had to use the individual data of the operators. Then we had to add it up. No aggregated figures are available. The sum of all the data they provided to me voluntarily indicates that there were 7.8 million defaults in 2018, 7.2 million in 2019 and around 6 million in 2020. So that's a slight drop in the last three years. This is about defaults linked to contracts for electronic communications in general, not only limited to the Internet, but also, for example, for telephony and television. I haven't been able to get separate data. The number of cases remains high, but there has been a slight decline in the last three years. I cannot give you a quantified picture of the evolution of the number of internet subscriptions that are broken after a default because the different operators track these data in different ways, so that a general aggregated statement is not possible. So we don't have that data. The operators have also pointed out to us the confidentiality of individual data. The operator's individual figures, whether they relate to internet subscriptions or linked packages, also seem to indicate a decrease in service interruptions due to default. Hopefully, I have been able to answer a number of questions. This problem is very close to my heart. Indeed, we are in the process of reforming the social telecoms tariff, but we have also just released EUR 6 million of funds to bridge the digital divide. This is not a luxury in these difficult times for many families and in times of telework and teleeducation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u5	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is already encouraging that the number of defaults is in decline. The question is, of course, what the telecom operators will do after corona, when there is still much to be done and children still need to be educated at home. That is why it is important to keep a close eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u6	Madam Secretary, I have a question about telecom prices in our country. According to Test Purchase, our country has the most expensive postal and telecom prices in the whole of the European Union. They are based on a Eurostat study. It says that communication with us is 76 % more expensive than the average. That's a very high grade. That's why I have a few questions. Firstly, can you tell us how Eurostat reaches these figures? How much is the share that we're too expensive to pay if we split up for mail and for telecommunications? Indeed, Eurostat has not only looked at telecom prices, but has produced a joint overview of postal and telecommunications tariffs. I want to know if we're too expensive for both of us, or is there a skew because either of us is too expensive? If such a division is not possible, you can instruct BIPT to undertake a comparative study, if necessary with a number of neighbouring countries and a number of countries with similar population. After all, we are often compared with Germany or the United Kingdom. Secondly, the bigger a market is, the bigger the economies or scale are going to play. With a potential of 80 million customers, the price can also be printed. If you also think it is not a bad thing to use BIPT for such an investigation, would it not be interesting to look at countries that are about the same size as ours? Thirdly, are you concerned about these figures or not? Fourthly, of course, the price is not everything. If we make the comparison with the quality, we see that our network scores higher than in many other countries. We're fast-tracked and mobile. We're at the fastest in the world. We also have a very reliable network. How has this quality been taken into account in Eurostat's comparison? Or hasn't it been taken into account at all? If we look only at the price, a number of conclusions can be drawn. But the price always depends on quality. Finally, I would also like to know whether it is possible to make a ranking of price and quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u7	Mr Freilich, you can already guess, in answer to your first question, I get the information from the BIPT that they cannot at present divide postal services from telecom services. They would, however, ask Eurostat for a more detailed breakdown. I hope that we will soon be able to submit these data. I think you're making a very good suggestion, which has been passed on. Secondly, since 2012, BIPT has, as you know, independently analysed the price level of Belgian telecom products compared to neighbouring countries. I would like to specify those neighbouring countries. The latest version of the study dates from 2019. We're working on a new one now. So I do not know whether I can say now that I want to involve other countries. However, Germany is a neighbouring country, France is a neighbouring country. Those are bigger countries. I can imagine that a comparison between our country and countries such as France and Germany as a benchmark, and perhaps also the Netherlands or the United Kingdom, could be indicative in itself. We can derive from the figures in the 2019 study, the most recent one, I fear, that Belgian telecom prices are generally high. There's not much to tell about that. There is, however, a comment that you have already made. There are a number of competitive offers available on the market. When we talk about high prices, it's about averages. There are packages on the market that are indeed cheap, but many consumers are stuck in expensive packages for many reasons, which are not being converted. It is therefore important for consumers to compare their own packages and offers on the market. One of the tools for this is the website bestrate.be, as it also exists for other domains. We need to publish them more, including in the area of telecoms, so that people can use this price comparison to determine which package best suits their specific needs. There is also the communication about Easy Switch, which can easily be switched from one operator to another. These are two important instruments to protect consumers and encourage them to ultimately reduce the price on the market. It is also really my intention to bring our country to a better level in the coming years in a European benchmark. Then, of course, another important point that you have raised, the quality. It is confirmed that the Belgian telecom networks are better quality than the European average. There is the annual DESI index, the Digital Economy and Society Index, where Belgium ranks third in the group of the 27 EU Member States on the coverage of households for fast fixed broadband, and fourth in the coverage of households for the mobile 4G network. That's not bad as a benchmark. Of course, that's about cover. When we look at the quality of the user experience, for example the download speed, video streaming and the possibilities offered by the Internet, we see that Belgian mobile networks are excellent compared to neighbouring countries. The Eurostat study compares prices without taking into account actual consumption or the qualitative aspects, as you mentioned and I have just described. So we need to look at Eurostat figures in more detail. If we do that benchmark, including in our own studies, the quality must be linked to it. This way apples are not compared to pears.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u8	Madam Minister, we cannot simply look at the price without taking into account the quality. Another interesting aspect that needs to be taken into account is the specificity of a country, the length of time, how much it costs to live there, and also the level of income. If we look at the average prices, we also belong to the best four countries in the world, or in Europe. That's how I understood it. Of course, we know a higher VAT and there are other things that we need to take into account. It would be good if BIPT also took this into account in its studies in the future. You have also talked about the website best rate.be and I see you are smiling already. I invite you to try that website, because if you do, you will notice that that site is really not so user-friendly. That is also a tip for the BIPT, because that can still be worked on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u9	Madam Secretary, a few days before New Year's, an article was published in Knack entitled "Fake influencers and fake news " Huawei's Mud Campaign against the Belgian Government." Yesterday at Knack.be there was a follow-up article, in which it goes into more detail about Huawei's claims that the company had nothing to do with it, but in which it is shown quite in detail that Huawei was behind it. I can give you another tip of the veil about news that hasn't been in the media yet: on Twitter I got the same messages from Mike Bai, who works for Huawei. We're talking about sponsored ads. I went to see who's following this Mike Bai. On Twitter it is true that if you have certain followers and then run a paying campaign, you can choose to target the people you follow and follow specifically. What turned out to be? All the members of this house, all the ministers and party chairmen, everyone involved in telecoms and all the members of this committee were suddenly followed by Mike Bai. That means that he can focus sponsored, paid ads with certain potentially interesting things for his followers on them. I was on the list myself. The story went international: The New York Times also paid attention to it. Apparently, no effort was spared for the grand action, which also ran on LinkedIn and Facebook. The Belgian government was accused of being corrupt and was then called incompetent. Then again, it sounded like she was in line with the Americans and acted against the interests of her own people. I don't know if you've read Huawei's articles, but it's worth it anyway. Do you think the information from Knack and then The New York Times are correct? Have you had your services verify the information? What is your position? Do you think this is an acceptable means of pressure? It is possible that in other parts of the world this is one of the standard methods: if you do not get your way in one way, you can always try another way. Last time you were here, you said you were meeting representatives of the Huawei company. Has that happened yet? Will you address them about this? Doesn't this prove to China exactly what we're trying to make clear, namely that the country is not so close to our values, our politics, our way of doing business, transparency and use of social media or abuse of social media?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u10	Mr Freilich, it is true that, for several months and recently, we have established an exceptionally high level and targeted nature of social media reports on 5G in general and on the consultation launched on the security of networks in particular. It is not obvious to establish precise links to the clients of such messages, but it goes without saying that we reject all fake news and slander campaigns. We will not fail to point this out to all stakeholders when we meet them. For fake news, we will also focus on the knowledge and learning platform over 5G, which hopefully we can expect in May. Thus, although it is not certain who is behind this campaign, China is regularly pointed the finger at similar practices by social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter itself. Witness to this are the transparency reports that are regularly published by them. That's a statement we can make. In a wider context, the State Security has noted that China uses different means to manipulate the Belgian population. For example, China makes creative use of the principle of freedom of expression and freedom of the press to pursue its own interests which are not always in line with ours. Through such actions, China may even compromise our democracy. Those are the findings of the State's security. I have already had a number of meetings on this with all the security players in our country, in particular to inform me about this issue: State Security, Military Intelligence and Security Service, ADIV, Federal Police, Cybersecurity, Crisis Centre, Defence, Foreign Affairs, etc., all of which are experts. Of course, given the sensitivity of the 5G theme, I will follow this theme closely when new information is available. As far as 5G and security are concerned, a draft law will be submitted to the Council of Ministers shortly, in conjunction with the EU toolbox on 5G Cybersecurity and after the file was also discussed at the SCIV Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security. The 5G dossier is at the crossroads of economic, environmental, security and international interests, in which we work together with the European partners and the Belgian stakeholders and not least the Parliament to find the right balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I am not afraid of what you are saying. I am shocked because it is important to hear from a Belgian minister who quotes the security of the state, that China is indeed using or using our social media in a rather creative way and is potentially compromising the security of the state. That is what we have been suspecting for a long time, and today we are hearing it. It's an important statement. My question was about a telecom company, Huawei, and your answer is not about the telecom company but about China. We see very clearly in your answer the intertwinedness between an independent company, because Huawei keeps saying that China is not a shareholder, that the Chinese state has nothing to say in the company, and the country of China. That makes it clear that this intertwinedness is very strong. That is also normal, because we know how business, business and government are dealt with in that country. That's very important to know. So we must not be naive and be fully aware of the cybersecurity threat posed by companies such as Huawei and China.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u12	Recently, the Court of Auditors submitted its report on the second adjustment of the Flemish budget for 2020 and the Flemish budget for 2021 to the Flemish Parliament, adopted on 20 November 2020. On page 32 of the report, the Court of Auditors draws the attention of the Flemish Parliament to the fact that, according to the decision of the Consultation Committee between the Federal Government and the Land governments of 2013 on the three awarded 4G licences, 20% of the revenue had to be passed on to the Communities. For the Flemish Community, this amounts to EUR 41,453.360. However, according to the Court of Auditors, seven years later, nothing has yet been paid out. In this way, the Flemish government misses a significant amount of income. I assume that is also the case for the other regions. Can the Minister clarify why that share of the proceeds from the award of the 4G licences has still not been paid to the Flemish state level and possibly to the other regions? What steps has the Minister taken to date, in consultation with colleagues from the Flemish Government, to ensure that this income is passed on? Why haven't these steps produced any results so far? What steps will the Minister, in consultation with colleagues from the Flemish Government, take to ensure that this revenue is actually paid in? What assurances will the Minister provide during the negotiations to be conducted on the distribution of revenues of the 5G spectrum auction in the Consultation Committee in order to avoid that the Flemish government will also miss out on this revenue or will only be allocated years later?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u13	I, along with you, regret that until now revenue has not been paid out. But it's not the federal government that's been failing here since 2013. There's been a delay in payout for two years, not seven years. That requires some explanation. The distribution between the Communities and the federal government of the proceeds of the 4G auction was decided in 2013, but the internal distribution between the three Communities was only finally settled in an agreement in 2019. Only then can the financial transfer be made. The problem dates from far before my time as Minister. Anyway, it is one of the first to do's on my agenda to finally fix the payment of the 4G auction revenue in 2021. Let's hope, by the way, that it won't last seven or eight years for 5G either. In the meantime, my cabinet has made the necessary contacts with the FPS Economy, responsible for the payout. The FPS Economy has confirmed that it intends to regulate this through the 2020-2021 budgetary control, as the initial expenditure budget 2020-2021 does not provide for the necessary appropriations to implement the transfer to the Communities and the Regions. As far as the timetable is concerned, I can tell you that the amendment to the budget law must be dealt with in plenary before 30 June, which also means that the payment cannot be made before that date. It remains my ambition not to delay the collapse any more. The proceeds of the 5G auction we want to block on a federal guard account third money until an agreement was reached between the federal state and the Communities. I will look again and do everything I can to ensure that the information flows optimally to the services concerned, who will then have to pay out when the agreement is reached, not only between the federal level and the Länder, but also between the Länder themselves. I hope it'll happen sooner this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. Two years is, of course, much shorter than seven years, but actually still long enough. You have indicated that you want to do this quickly, and that is very positive. I hope that we can close the file quickly and that the score will be settled. We cannot leave invoices open for years and expect citizens and businesses to pay us. We must set an example and ensure that our invoices are settled soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u15	Mr President, Minister, almost two months after discussing the policy paper in this committee, you will be presenting a policy paper 2.0. You announced that, too. However, it is a document without any legal value, since it is not an official document which can still be submitted to the Chamber. It cannot be put to the vote either. Perhaps you could ask for a new vote on this new policy document, if that is technically possible. There are indeed new issues in the document, for example on the establishment of a knowledge and learning centre. These new elements can, of course, also have budgetary implications. After all, there was no mention of this centre, but its creation will obviously cost money. Do you think that an adjustment of the budget is necessary? Then how are you going to submit that? Another amendment to the Policy Paper 2.0 also corresponds to one of our recommendations, namely on combating fake news, including on 5G. Your party and the purple-green majority voted against that recommendation, but now we see them in the text. Why couldn't we add that to the text at the time if it was a good idea? So why didn't we adopt this recommendation instead of voting against it, so that we can take it up again now? This seems like a media stunt to me. Hence my questions to you. What adjustments are you going to make to the budget? Can you give the Policy Paper 2.0 an official character in any way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u16	Mr President, first of all I would like to ask you if I could use a little more time to answer this question, because this is a very important issue that is important for the whole committee. I am a little disappointed to hear that Mr Freilich calls my intentions to always take Parliament seriously a pure media stunt. Since the start of the debate on the policy paper, I have always been very transparent about my genuine will to take useful suggestions from Parliament, whether they come from the majority or from the opposition. That so far the only criticism comes from the opposition, surprises and regrets me very much, but I would like to answer your question in a constructive way. You have, as often do, raised a number of valid points. It is true that the Court regards the Policy Paper 2.0 as an informal document, because the initial version has already been adopted with a vote. In this or any other committee, there was a brief discussion on whether to vote on it or whether the vote should be postponed. At that time it was decided not to postpone it and to abide by the Rules of Procedure, since documents 2.0 have no official status. In addition to the healthy dose of criticism you have at your disposal, I hope you can also appreciate that I, even during the year, have good suggestions for fine-tuning my policy from society and will continue to pick up Parliament, regardless of whether those suggestions come from the majority or from the opposition. That does not seem to me to be prohibited, as long as I do not violate any rules. I would like to point out a few things. Firstly, the policy paper 2.0 for 2021 does not change the budget that had already been adopted. That element was therefore not entirely correct, as several items included in version 2.0 are budget neutral. This applies, among other things, to the knowledge and learning platform to which you refer. It will be possible to finance this within the budget, with the resources of the BIPT, which will be responsible for it. We have also submitted this within the reforms of the consolidated interfederal package of RRF funds. With any luck, therefore, funding will come from the European Union's recovery fund. Secondly, as Minister, I do not take part in the vote on the recommendations that have been formally tabled. However, I did not include literally voted recommendations in the Policy Paper 2.0 afterwards. There are also nuances. That's what I want to talk to you about. Specifically about the 5G story you are referring to, I make it clear that there is a difference between the genuine concerns of citizens about health and fake news. In your recommendation that distinction is not made and you consider all concerns as fake news. I do not need to explain to you why this distinction is very important for us as ecologists. Of course it's also about fake news. However, some citizens' concerns about long-term health effects are justified. We don't have all the answers yet, but the concern cannot be dismissed as fake news. I think that distinction is important enough to justify the difference between your recommendation and what I have included in the Policy Paper 2.0. You may find elements of all kinds of parties in version 2.0, as long as the debate, conducted in this committee, showed that the idea behind it was useful or sufficiently broad-based by different political groups. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to point out that a number of suggestions were included which were not submitted as official recommendations, but were addressed in the debate, including from the opposition. As an example, I would like to mention your suggestion that bpost's vacancies should always be published in Dutch, which we have taken over and which I hope you will not be grieved about. In any case, I agree with you, at least if this form of new political culture is also supported by you in the spirit and can be permanently incorporated into the system, which in future the vote can be postponed. In addition, if necessary, our review could be speeded up in order to have the completed policy paper 2.0 adopted in future as an official document in the Chamber. For me, that can be perfect, but in the current system it could not, as you know. I would like to include that suggestion, along with other of your suggestions, in my future policy and working methods, if you can agree to it. Despite the fact that I regret that you seem to question my sincere intentions, I hope to be able to make a better policy with you in the next three years and also to find a good modus operandi together to shape certain elements of the new political culture, in which I believe, and I think you too. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm sure you have my appreciation. If my wording was a little too strong or too sharp, I should like to apologize for that. However, I do think that a minister who is under a little bit of opposition fire can sometimes also perform better. You must consider my question purely in that sense. I am also pleased that you pointed out that I have raised valid points and that you have included them. I am a fan of the new political culture as you put it. That is what I said a few weeks ago when we discussed a legislative proposal. Perhaps I will use that as an off script too, and fellow Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will give me the opportunity to do so, but I think it is important to take the open hand that you have. As political groups, we have different opinions, sometimes ideological ones, so we will not always find an agreement. That's good in a democracy. However, some elements discussed benefit from the general interest. As I said in plenary, politics is not a zero-sum game for me, where one party can only win if another loses, or vice versa. Occasionally, both parties can be winners if they give each other the hand. Thus, both your party and my party win and also the whole politics, which is sometimes wronged by the people. So I am very happy to hear that we may be able to move in a new direction. This morning, moreover, there was a motion for a resolution on 5G in this committee. There were four different parties that had submitted resolutions on this subject: N-VA, CD&V, MR and cdH. That is where we decided to put the four texts side by side and try to come up with a joint motion for a resolution. After all, everyone agrees that we should not miss the 5G boat. So we are certainly going to work on that and I hope that we can work constructively together in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Josy Arens converted 55012943C into a written question. Mrs Verhaert is not present for her question No. 55013123C. Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Depraetere are also not present for their combined questions Nos. 55014127C and 55014155C. Debates of the European Parliament 55014137C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin will be converted into a written question. Mr Sander Loones referred to Question No 55014307C on the agenda, but he is still on the Constitutional Commission. That brings us to Mrs Ingels' question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u19	Madam Minister, I do not often join the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I would like to raise a matter which is very close to my heart, namely the critical communication between the aid and security services. I used to be a government commissioner at ASTRID. That's why I know the file well. The Council of Ministers of the end of January 2021 adopted a number of royal decisions on radio access, including those concerning the 700 megahertz frequency band at first reading. The file had a very long run. ASTRID is still working with TETRA technology, but will switch to and use the normal telecom networks. In order to achieve this, we need stable agreements and guarantees. We worked very hard on this in 2017 and 2018. There was an initial proposal from the BIPT on the 700 megahertz. We then worked very hard with all the parties involved, from the telecom operators themselves to the cabinets of then competent Minister De Croo and Minister Jambon, with which I myself sat at the table. After several meetings, we reached a compromise that was feasible for everyone and in which the necessary guarantees were given to ASTRID. It was mainly about the importance of critical communication and everything involved, about the very important national roaming and also about the arbitration role of the BIPT, which in itself is an additional role that ASTRID has never been confronted with to date. That text was approved by the Council of Ministers in July 2018. However, when I analyse the KB on the 700 megahertz approved on 22 January 2021, I note that the initial Royal Decree prepared by BIPT prior to the discussions has been approved. I was very surprised because we had worked very intensively on this. We had an agreement. It therefore feels somewhat like lost work, and it is a very regrettable matter also in the light of the confidence that is needed in such processes of change. Were you aware of the compromise on the Royal Decree of 2018, which was approved by the Council of Ministers? Did the BIPT inform you that it was about a different text? Given the specificity of the ASTRID dossier, have you had contact with Minister Verlinden's cabinet or with the government commissioner at ASTRID? Were they involved in the inter-kabinette working groups in one way or another? What do you intend to do to remedy the situation? Are you planning a new arrangement on the Council of Ministers? I have seen in the notification that only if there are certain comments from advisory bodies can it be decided whether or not a second reading will take place. There is therefore no guarantee that there will be a second reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u20	Mrs Ingels, I know that you know the subject very well and that you are very concerned about it. My answer will be a bit technical, as you can see. The KB on the 700 megahertz, which was indeed approved by the Council of Ministers on 22 January and which was first on the agenda for the Consultative Committee on 12 February, brings with it changes for ASTRID compared to the previous version. In legal terms, there is a change in the legal basis to Article 51 of the Electronic Communications Act of 13 June 2005 instead of the previous Article 106. I have been told that the application of Article 51 is the most legally appropriate basis, since it deals specifically with roaming and complies with European directives. The terminology in the text of the Royal Decree was therefore extended to be consistent with the law on electronic communications. The arbitration role, assigned to the regulator BIPT, is also in line with Article 51. Indeed, the regulator cannot impose national roaming as a measure until it has been established that the commercial negotiations between operators have not led to an agreement within a reasonable period of time. Of course, the specific needs of ASTRID regarding public security and security solutions, civil security and disaster response, the famous PPDR or public protection and disaster relief were taken into account. In the absence of agreement between the 700 megahertz operator and ASTRID on specific PPDR measures, BIPT may impose the application of minimum specific PPDR measures on the 700 megahertz operator. The PPDR roaming obligation therefore remains with the operator, as in the 2018 version. In the KB concerning the 700 megahertz there is also a spectrum reservation of 8 megahertz-duplex for PPDR solutions. Those frequencies will enable ASTRID to roll out its own dedicated radio access network, in addition to or as an alternative to the radio access network for one or more public mobile operators. All government parties approved the text in the Ministerial Council, after several consultations in IKW's, which also shared the note on the whole dossier, including the history, including the history around ASTRID. No comments have been made. I was confronted with that file as a new minister. If partners from the past have no comments and find the text a very good basis, it is not for me to say that we will do so differently here, you will understand. In substance, like you, I attach great importance to the proper functioning of emergency services and I believe that we should support them in this. We have no doubt the same concern about the ultimate importance of emergency telecommunications. There have already been several discussions between ASTRID, Minister Verlinden's cabinet and my cabinet. There the best solution was sought, both legally and operationally, for example when intervention is required between ASTRID and the operators. We want to continue and facilitate frequent consultations, because we consider the importance of good cooperation between the security services and the telecoms services to be very important. If I am well informed, there is even a meeting scheduled for today in that context. The BIPT plays a very important role in this, but I can assure you that relations are also constructive at cabinet level. Finally, I would like to stress that I am convinced that the current KB on the 700 megahertz ASTRID will enable it to successfully move from TETRA to 5G and that it offers the same guarantees to ASTRID as the previous version. I am told that legal and European coherence in the current texts is even better guarded, but I leave that to the experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers. I am fully convinced that we are pursuing the same objective. I just think there's a breach of trust that we need to recover quickly. At ASTRID, things were shot in the wrong throat. That is why I think the consultation is definitely necessary. Indeed, we have very good experiences with telecoms, security services and everything related to emergency situations. Think of Alert SMS and roaming related to the 112 app. So it doesn't have to go wrong at all. We just need to make sure that there is good communication between ASTRID and the BIPT. So I am counting on you, Mrs Verlinden, and the government commissioners to glue to the breach of confidence that has been established in this area. After all, that is your mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I have just come from the Constitutional Commission, where the debate was held with Minister Verlinden and at the moment with Minister Clarinval, but I thought it was important to jump in. My question is also about the institutional. Before the krokusreces, I asked Minister Verlinden how all this would go exactly and how the debate on state reform would be prepared. It's huge. There are a lot of corners and sides to it and there is a lot of expertise needed for that. I asked her how that was handled in practice and she replied to me that she had two advisors in her cabinet before that, and that is it. I also put the question to Minister Clarinval. He's got about six employees for that. Minister Verlinden said that we should look at this together, that the cabinet is not doing it alone, but that the entire government is doing it. Experts on institutional matters can be found in the various Cabinets, especially those of the Deputy Prime Ministers. Hence my question to you whether you have institutional experts in your cabinet. How many are there? Are they exclusively engaged in this theme or are they also working on other themes? How will you do that? Do you have special budgets to use external expertise if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u23	Mr President, Mr Loones, as far as my cabinet is concerned, in the General Policy Cell, the policy officer who succeeds Justice has also been specifically recruited for institutional reform. Of course, that person is not exclusively involved with that today. I'm sure you'll understand. He'll be working on that as soon as there's active business on the table. In my policy cell, my box cell, I also have an employee who is a lawyer and who works mainly on management agreements. He has expertise in institutional reform and has been asked to follow it up. Both are lawyers. So these are two people who can work on this theme, but who are not exclusively engaged in it, especially in the early stages. At the moment, I have no other expertise on institutional reforms in my cabinet. There's a budget for that, so I can expand if the need arises. If this really becomes a full-time activity and comes on the agenda very quickly, then we can hire someone to do so. We'll do the same. I do not need to explain to you that it is also a very important dossier for my political family that we want to follow very closely. Indeed, Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval are pulling this off, but all the Vice-Kabinets are following this with particular interest. It is indeed a matter for all of us. I would add Minister Verlinden that we should all be working on this because this is an important part of the coalition agreement. There is sufficient capacity, at least on my vice-office, to be engaged very quickly if the pace of work on that domain would increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's always nice to be able to look behind the curtain and get an insight into the kitchen. There is a lot going on, especially in the preparation of that famous dialogue platform. Questions have just been asked about this. Mr Calvo has already intervened on this matter. We are currently considering how these modalities should be designed. If the government and all parties take this issue seriously, it would be interesting to put additional capacity on it. That is my personal opinion on the rhythm determined by the Ministers for Institutional Reforms. In addition, you also determine the rhythm. The coalition agreement provides for the explicit possibility for all your colleagues to pursue an asymmetric policy adapted to the specific needs of the various sub-regions of this country. We were just talking about 5G. The sensitivities there are quite different in the different parts of this country. There too, an asymmetric approach could speed things up. In any case, the coalition agreement gives you that opportunity to think about it. You are responsible for economics and consumer protection, issues where perspectives differ in the North and South of the country. You will have already noticed this in the questions you are being asked in Parliament. Here's an invitation to recruit extra people. You won't hear that very often from N-VAs, but you'll hear it from me, in my personal name. You can, of course, compensate for that in other areas, you will undoubtedly be careful with taxpayers' money, but it is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pillen's 55014486C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u26	Mr President, Minister of State, there is an increasing number of complaints about online purchases. More than 22,000 complaints have already been noted since the establishment of the Economic Inspection hotline in 2016. However, the number of complaints is increasing. For example, over 7,500 complaints were registered during the first 10 months of 2020, which is about half more than during the whole year 2019. Mainly they concern complaints about fraud and non-supply of ordered goods or services. How can consumers protect themselves against online fraud and not delivering orders? What concrete steps can a consumer take to report abuses? Where can consumers go? Are financial figures available on the damage suffered by consumers? If so, can you get me those numbers? If not, why not? Are you prepared to launch an information campaign to better inform consumers about such abuses, with tips on how to arm themselves against them? Finally, what steps will you take to combat the activities of fraudulent sellers from home and abroad? In summary, how are you going to better protect consumers from online fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u27	Mr President, my question is also about fraud in online purchases of goods. It is no secret that there are more and more complaints about this. Figures from the Economic Inspectorate show that last year, among other things by corona and the lockdowns, many people have made purchases on webshops. The Economic Inspectorate received no less than 7,500 complaints. There are a lot of temporary web shops that once the consumer had ordered and paid for them, disappeared again from the web. Often these are webshops that are made with Shopify, a Canadian company that facilitates online purchases because such webshops can be created easily and quickly. There are also many other websites that are known to be fraudulent, but which remain online. I am convinced that the Economic Inspectorate is really committed to preventing and resolving these practices, but unfortunately it is often mop-up for them with the tap open. That's why I have the following questions. There is a clear increase in complaints. Is there any way the Economic Inspectorate can follow that? Does she have sufficient support for this? Will there be any increase in resources for the Economic Inspectorate? Can consumers be prevented from buying on such websites by making them even more aware, informing them more and making them more resilient?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u28	Mr Gilissen, Mrs Van Bossuyt, combating fraudulent webshops is a priority for the Economic Inspectorate. The Economic Inspectorate reserves sufficient capacity to respond quickly to new priorities and urgent issues in addition to its recurrent assignments. What can consumers do? If a consumer is the victim of a fraudulent web shop, he or she may report to the hotline. The consumer is automatically sent an answer explaining the problems posed and how he or she can assert his or her individual rights on the basis of them. The Economic Inspectorate therefore initiates daily surveys. Where useful data appear in those files, such as bank account numbers, they shall be identified where possible, an investigation shall be initiated and the file shall be transferred to the competent authorities. The reported financial damage for 2020 related to fraudulent webshops amounts to 13,522,000 euros. That amount is declarative. In recent years, my services have made fighting malicious websites a priority. This is why the FPS Economy launched a communication campaign "Don't fall into the trap" in September 2020. The campaign focused on the three most common forms of fraud, including fraudulent web stores. The aim was, on the one hand, to encourage consumers to report problems to the hotline and, on the other hand, to advise on how fraudsters can be identified and avoided. The Economic Inspectorate also works at different levels, bilaterally and multilaterally, with foreign authorities to combat fraudulent webshops. My services will continue to do so. The Economic Inspection shall use an administrative verification procedure of domain names if an offender has provided false contact details. Through this administrative procedure, the public prosecutors are relieved of files where no further investigation is possible, as the offender is often unknown and is likely to reside abroad. If the traditional legal means available to the Economic Inspectorate cannot be used, the Economic Inspectorate may also have fraudulent.be websites closed by means of a cooperation protocol with the DNS Belgium association. By extending its powers under the CPC Regulation, my services have been able to have more extensive online interfaces removed since the end of last year, put in a warning or have access blocked when there are no other effective means to end the infringement. The best strategy to prevent infringements of existing legislation is, of course, to focus on sensitisation, which may prevent consumers from being affected. The FPS Economy regularly warns consumers about fraudulent webshops through its websites, press releases and social media such as the Facebook page Pass scams. Further campaigns are also under construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u29	Madam Secretary of State, there's a little problem. We don't have interpreters. We're trying to fix it. I don't know if I can or can go any further in the meantime? I will at least give Members the opportunity to replicate, and then we will look at what we should do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u30	Madam Secretary of State, I will be very brief. I understand that you launched an information campaign in December 2020, which I also asked you to do. So that is very positive. I hope that this phenomenon will continue to be closely monitored and that you will be able to play close to the ball if problems arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u31	For my part too, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your comprehensive answer. The only element to which I have not heard a reply is whether the Economic Inspectorate can still make it strong and whether it has sufficient capacity and resources to keep up with everything. Unless I missed that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u32	While we are waiting for the interpreters, I will repeat what I said at the beginning: that this is a priority and that there are sufficient resources. Of course this will be followed. If it turns out that more resources are needed, we will try to shift them, first within existing capacity, and if that is not enough, we can look at it further. But right now, there's no problem with manpower or female strength.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u33	We are allowed to continue with the services. There's gonna be an interpreter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u34	Mr President, I wish to turn my question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u35	Question No 55012769C by Mrs Florence Reuter is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u36	We note that energy companies are increasingly using debt collection agencies to recover the sum of money that people owe. However, there are clearly a number of rules on how the energy supplier can ensure the follow-up of the debt. I won't list them all. The outsourcing of the recovery procedure to a collection agency does not comply with the rules in force. For example, there will be no reminder bill, but a letter from the collection agency immediately or no payment plan will be offered. The Energy Ombuds Service advises against the use of collection agencies. Have you taken note of the figures and complaints relating to the use of collection agencies? Will you consult with energy companies on the use of collection agencies and remind them of the legal obligations surrounding the recovery procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u37	Where a consumer does not pay his energy bill in time, an energy supplier may choose to use a collection agency to settle the claim. The Ombudsdienst voor Energie notes an increase in complaints about recovery costs for professional debt debtors such as debt collection agencies, law firms and bailiffs. This is an increase of 14%, with 381 complaints in 2020 compared to 334 complaints 2019. In these disputes with energy suppliers on energy debts transferred to professional debtors, the ombuds service tries to verify whether the recovery procedure against the consumer has been correctly followed through a reminder and a notice of default, whether an outstanding balance is correct, in case of dispute of invoices and whether irregular costs have not been charged. The choice for a collection agency or not lies entirely with the energy supplier himself. However, this should not affect consumers' rights at any time, such as sending a payment reminder after 14 days and communicating the right to a payment plan. This will, of course, be taken into account in the review and improvement of the consumer agreement which should provide additional protection for consumers. Recovery of the invoice is also a regional issue. It looks at how an extensive cooperation can be achieved under this division of powers to maximise the protection of the energy consumer. We aim to coordinate with the Energy, Leefmillieu and Climate Committee in order to achieve the objectives together in an effective and efficient way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u38	I note that you will follow up on the problem, especially when it is noted that collection agencies would often charge irregular costs and do not comply with the rules in force. Consumers are often not aware of their rights in this respect either. That is why I think it is very important to play the ball very briefly here. This week we heard how collection agencies use the logos of lawyers on their letters. Around that world already hangs a bad name, sometimes justified, sometimes unjust. But we must not add to the problem and inform the consumer about his/her rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u39	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, I think it was bailiffs who borrowed their name. Lawyers wouldn't dare do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u40	Mr President, I apologize to the lawyers. In fact, we have already discussed in this committee the actions of both lawyers and bailiffs. Madam Secretary of State, my question concerns the financing of the European Consumer Centre. The single market is the cornerstone of European cooperation and the deepening of this market means that more and more Belgians buy in other Member States. Conversely, foreign consumers also buy from Belgian companies. The European Consumer Centre is a umbrella organisation which has a centre in each Member State. They are experiencing a very sharp increase in the number of complaints but so far they have not seen their resources increased and no more staff have been allocated to them. It is therefore almost impossible for these people to work properly. Madam Secretary, do you recognise the importance of the European Consumer Centre? Do you recognise that in recent years they have experienced an exponential increase in their workload? Is it true that the funds have not been increased yet? I heard there wasn't even any indexing. Will you make an effort to increase the ECC's resources? If so, from when? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u41	Mr President, the consumer centres are undoubtedly contributing to the success of the internal market. They play a crucial role in consumer protection and the resolution of cross-border disputes. Through their work they have an in-depth knowledge of the market, allowing them to develop adapted consumer policies tailored to trends and modern consumption behaviour. Like all national consumer centres, ECC Belgium experienced a large increase in information requests and complaints in 2020 due to the corona crisis. The number of files dealt with by the ECC has continued to increase in recent years. I'll give you a few figures. It was 10,155 cases in 2017, 11,276 in 2018, 12,578 in 2019 and 17,933 in 2020, a huge increase. The level of satisfaction of consumers using ECC Belgium's services is very high. The financing of consumer centres shall be determined at European level. The European Commission finances the consumer centres at 50%, the remaining 50% being financed by the Member States. The financing of ECC Belgium is ensured by a grant from the budget of the FPS Economy. The administrative agreement between the Minister of Economy and the ECC Belgium does not provide for an annual indexation of the subsidy granted to the ECC. However, the amount of that subsidy was indexed in 2016. Then it was raised from 160,000 euros to 162,000 euros. I would remind you that the subsidy granted by the European Commission is the same as that granted by the national authorities. Any increase in a national subsidy should therefore be accompanied by an automatic and equivalent increase in the European Union subsidy. Such an increase shall be subject to the agreement of the Commission. If the ECC wishes to increase the national subsidy, it will have to be fully justified by the Minister for Economic Affairs. I will therefore discuss this with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u42	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. The figures you have given speak for themselves: an increase in the number of complaints to more than 17 000. When one sees where they come from and sees that since 2016 there has been no change in the resources that are being received, one understands that those people can no longer be strong enough to perform their job properly. As you rightly say, they do play a crucial role in the proper functioning of the internal market. I have no doubt that you consider this to be very important, as do I. You are talking about financing fifty-fifty by the European Commission and the national Member States. I understand that it is almost an automatism that when a Member State increases resources, the European Commission follows it. I will certainly inform the Minister for Economic Affairs that a reasoned request to increase resources should be made, and I hope that a positive response will be given to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, the government agreement sets out the ambition to strengthen the Economic Inspectorate, including to combat fraud and counterfeiting. Several inspection services already exist at federal and regional level. They all have their own focus, of course, but there are also overlaps in a number of areas. Do the various federal inspection services exchange information among themselves? How does that happen? You said in your policy statement that there would be a central hotline on this cooperation between the various inspection services at federal level. Do you see a role here for that central hotline? Has there been an exchange of information between federal and regional services? For example, are lists of fraudsters shared?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u44	The exchange of information between inspection services is particularly important as it makes the fight against fraud more effective in itself. As a result, consultations are held on a regular basis between the various federal inspection services, depending on the specific subject matter. However, the exchange of information on fraudsters only takes place within the limits laid down by law, where there is a clear reason to share such information. Specific coordination bodies have been set up to structure this exchange of information on certain issues. An example of this is the interdepartmental commission for coordinating the fight against economic fraud, which brings together representatives of all the competent inspection services and organises the coordination and exchange of information between these services. With regard to the fight against counterfeiting and piracy, the Inter-Ministerial Commission for the fight against counterfeiting and piracy is responsible for organising the exchange of information. The exchange of information in the context of the fight against mass fraud is addressed within the Mass Fraud Platform, which brings together the services concerned, such as the Economic Inspectorate, the Special Tax Inspectorate, the Federal Police and the Financial Information Processing Cell (CFI). Cooperation protocols have been developed and applied in other sectors. For example, there are protocols on the exchange of information on tax fraud, the prevention of money laundering and the use of cash between the Economic Inspectorate, the general administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate and the federal judicial police. There are also protocols between the Economic Inspection and the FSMA concerning the control of financial services and with the BFSA in the context of economic fraud with food products. The hotline managed by the Economic Inspectorate, to which the federal police and other inspection services cooperate, allows consumers and businesses who are victims of fraud to report it. Depending on their nature, the notifications shall be forwarded to the competent partner services of the hotline. The exchange of information between the federal level and the federated entities shall be organised for matters subject to shared competences, in particular in the protection of the financial interests of the European Union. To this end, the interdepartmental commission for coordinating the fight against economic fraud, which brings together representatives of the federal and regional control services, is also responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud to the detriment of the financial interests of the European Union. It shall coordinate the action of the services concerned and the exchange of information between those services in accordance with the rules laid down in the European regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is indeed important that the various inspection services you have listed work closely together. I hope that cooperation will continue smoothly so that the fight against fraud can be dealt with as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u46	Mr De Maegd is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u47	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Test Purchase announced earlier this week that it had filed a complaint against TikTok with the Belgian Consumer Organisation and with 16 other European consumer organisations. In addition to this complaint, Test Purchase has also asked in our country if the Economic Inspectorate can take action and conduct an investigation. Test Purchase gave a number of reasons why it lodged that complaint. One is that consumers' rights are not always respected. It is then about user-published videos that are used, distributed and reproduced without any fee. Certain functions also contain unlawful clauses and misleading practices. A more important point is that TikTok does not adequately protect children and teenagers, the main target group, from hidden advertising. TikTok's commercial proposals to companies that want to advertise on the application contribute to this problem. For example, users are encouraged by certain popular influencers to participate in a hashtag contest that does not always prove to be true or promote a particular product, but is not clearly indicated, which, given the target audience of especially young people and children, creates unclear commercial intentions. Test Purchase also indicates that TikTok's practices regarding the processing of personal data are often misleading. The platform does not inform its users, especially the children and teenagers, clearly and in a way that is understandable to them about their personal data collected and for which they are precisely used. According to Test Purchase, it is necessary that the Economic Inspection also opens an investigation in our country. I'd like to hear from you whether that's the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, the Economic Inspectorate and myself were also informed by Test Purchase of this complaint at the BEUC. It was submitted to the European Consumer Protection Cooperation Network, CPC. In application of the new CPC Regulation, this research will more than likely be coordinated by the European Commission, taking into account the European dimension of the problem referred to. It goes without saying that the Economic Inspectorate will closely monitor this investigation and will fully support it as a national consumer authority. I therefore await the outcome of this investigation. The infringements of the GDPR and the restriction of access for minors concern data protection legislation. In Belgium this is the responsibility of the Data Protection Authority. We may consider controls on the age limit, but the answer to these questions belongs to the powers of Secretary of State Mathieu Michel responsible for Digitisation, in charge of Administrative Simplification, Privacy and the Management of Buildings. Of course, we are following this closely, and if we have a consultation with him, we will certainly raise it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u49	Madam Secretary of State, Mr Verduyckt has also put a question to Secretary of State Michel, since it is for a large piece about privacy, but given the specific question of Test Purchase to involve our Economic Inspection, I thought it important to ask that question too. I understand the investigation is awaited, but it may take some time. If that is the case and there are complaints coming into our country, then it is important that our services should be able to play a proactive role, especially with regard to advertising to young people, which is a very difficult issue in any case. A number of discussions and hearings have already taken place in the Flemish Parliament. When you look at TV or social media, it is difficult to distinguish between what exactly is advertising and when young people and children are correctly reached, but TikTok, of course, has the fact that the vast majority of the target group are children and young people. Therefore, extra caution is certainly not an exaggerated demand from Test Purchase, but I am glad that you will follow up the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u50	Mr President, my combined questions are about the travel sector, but they are still two very different questions. The first question is about the coronavoucherbank. I am back with this because we have been asking for a long time for solutions for the reimbursement of the coronavouchers issued between mid-March 2020 and mid-June 2020. Today we are 24 February and from 16 March consumers will be able to ask their travel organisation for reimbursement of those vouchers. For many tour operators that will be a big problem because some have even turned 0 % turnover in the past year because of the lockdowns and the corona measures, which will put even healthy businesses on the verge of bankruptcy. There will be real dramas. I was very happy to hear from you a few weeks ago in Radio 1's Morning that there would be work done by a coronavoucher bank. I questioned Mr Dermagne about possible modalities, but he kept quiet in all the languages whether or not that coronavoucherbank would be there. I think it's 5:12 in the meantime. In the Netherlands everything is now in the scaffolding. They also admitted that it took a lot of time and expertise to get everything up and running. With us, the decision or she won't even be there. Madam Secretary of State, is there going to be a coronavoucher bank in Belgium now? Yes or no? If so, what will be the modalities? How will it be stiffened? What will be the conditions for travel agencies to be able to rely on them? I think transparency and objectivity are important. On what time do you want to realize this? How many coronavouchers are still in circulation? Then I come to my second question on the insurability of the travel sector. Before the start of the corona crisis, there were four insurance companies with insolvency insurance for the travel sector. Insolvency insurance must be compulsory in the travel sector. In the meantime, there are only two insurance companies left. As you know, the Guarantee Fund does not have sufficient resources. Amlin, one of the two insurance companies that is still out of line, may soon be faced with the resolution of Neckermann's bankruptcy, which threatens to dispose of the branch of insolvency. You previously confirmed in your policy paper that you will evaluate the insolvency insurance system for the organisers and purchasers. In the meantime, it appears that many travel sectors can no longer take on insurance calamities. Unlike insolvency insurance, it is not compulsory, but apparently many will no longer be able to do so. Madam Secretary of State, have you taken note of the disappearance of insurance insolvency and calamities? Do you have any concrete plans for reforming the insurability of the travel sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, this is indeed a complex dossier. I will answer both your questions together, so the question about the travel sector and the coronavoucher and the question about the insurability of the travel sector. I would like to answer the questions together because this government has always advocated a global approach to the current situation in the travel sector. Allow me to sketch the history a little bit. On 19 March 2020, in the context of the covid crisis, a ministerial decision of Minister Muylle is adopted that requires the traveller-consumer to accept a one-year voucher instead of a direct cash refund. That voucher can be exchanged for a similar trip for a year. If this was not possible after one year, the consumer will be reimbursed within six months. That voucher is legally covered by the insurance contract that the package tour operator entered into regarding the risk of insolvency. Those vouchers we call the coronavouchers. In the meantime, we need to look for possible solutions for vouchers that were issued after the planned period, because the latter are not directly covered by the coronavouchers. Indeed, the coronavouchers must be paid out by a sector in crisis which has had virtually no income in recent months. As I mentioned earlier, the government has decided to meet a repayable temporary loan to the sector. That loan is covered by the open vouchers that are insured. We maintain very close contact with all parties in the sector and have tested some work slopes or forms of voucher bank. As has already been said, it will not be an interest-free loan, as the European Commission does not allow us to do so and because interestlessness would also be unfair to other sectors in need. We provide for a loan period of five to six years to remain within the European framework. We are also looking at the way in which other EU Member States operate and find that the authorised loan under the approval of Europe amounts to about 80% of the total outstanding sum of vouchers and provided that the consumer pays part of it. Those premises we examine for their desirability. The biggest problem we have now is that, since the beginning of the current government and following repeated pressure from the federations and insurers, we still do not have an exact number of open vouchers under the Muylle Ministerial Decision, either a view of their value or the vouchers issued after this period. Estimates range from EUR 200 million to more than EUR 400 million. We have decided to request them urgently through the Economic Inspectorate. Hopefully we'll get exact figures now. Our very first focus to ensure that insolvency insurers stay on top of a government loan has fallen without subject as both, Amlin and the Guarantee Fund Travel, claim that they will remain healthy with the challenges they face. The National Bank of Belgium, which is a prudential supervisor, does not seem to contradict this. We have now limited the forms of voucher bank to two, and are now evaluating them on their economic and judicial value, namely a loan to the insolvency insurers for the purpose of granting a loan to their members, and another slope where each package tour operator can obtain a loan directly from the government. The first is the best workable one for the government, as we work with fewer parties and so the control of full reimbursement is easier. It must be clear that every package tour operator must be able to take out such a loan, regardless of its size, but provided that it was a healthy business for corona. As regards the insurability of the travel sector, I have already indicated that both remaining insolvency insurers play an important role in our approach. We have also involved Assuralia in our discussions, and experience a great deal of support from them. As I said earlier, health and the presence in the sector were of paramount importance to us, since without Assuralia it would no longer be legally possible to organise package travel in Belgium. After a great deal of uncertainty, the Guarantee Fund now appears to have the necessary resources to carry out its commitments if necessary. Amlin no longer intends to leave the sector immediately. Our overall approach also aims to make the insurance sector more viable in the medium and long term within the journey, by adapting to the Belgian transposition of the European directives, and to urge European adjustments. Once this is done, Assuralia has promised to help convince several insurers to step into this sector. We are not so much aware of the disappearance of insurers, insolvency and calamities, but above all of the tightening of conditions and/or difficulties in accepting or extending new emergency contracts by insurers. We addressed this to the sector, although stricto sensu does not protect consumers, but we do this as part of our global approach. We are also awaiting the initiative announced last year by Flemish Minister Demir on an interfederal tourism crisis cell to work with the regions to tackle further problems that arise in the travel sector. As you can see, we're working on it. You're saying the insurance companies wouldn't be able to cope with the crisis. According to the latest data we have, this is the case. We are now working on the modalities of a loan with the coronavouchers as a property.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u52	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I am particularly pleased with what you have said about the coronavoucherbank. You may not want to call it that because it was a proposal from us. That does not matter; if the solution is there and the sector is to be met, we can only welcome it. If I understand correctly, it will be a temporary loan of 5 to 6 years, which will not be interest-free, given the European rules on state aid. I think you are aware that those first repayments are to be expected from 16 March. I hope that by then everything will be up and running to avoid dramas. You say you don't have a visual on the outstanding amount of those coronavouchers. I have already asked for figures and, over and over again, both you and your predecessor Mrs Muylle gave me the figure of EUR 300 million. Now it appears that you have no idea and it would be between EUR 200 and 400 million. If I see fit, the coronavoucherbank in the Netherlands will have a sum of EUR 400 million. Since it is an amount that will be repaid and therefore the government does not actually have any costs, I do not see why everything should be put on hold until that specific amount is known. It is very important to have transparency and objectivity with regard to the modalities for using that loan. That's very important. You yourself say that it must not depend on the size of the company. This is indeed very important to avoid two or three major players passing the cash register, leaving the coronavoucherbank empty and the many SMEs operating in that sector left empty-handed. That transparency and objectivity are indeed very important. I am surprised to hear you say that the Guarantee Fund has no liquidity problems. I asked how many resources were in it. I was always told it was EUR 20 million. When I hear the possible amounts in the event of a bankruptcy of the tour operators, it is about multiples of those EUR 20 million. So it's not to cause a panic? I'm gonna ask myself some questions anyway. As far as insolvency insurance itself and the reforms of the whole system are concerned, it will indeed be something for the longer term. Now, in the short term, we need to focus on the activation of the coronavoucherbank so that the many healthy companies, mostly SMEs in the travel sector, get the perspective that they will be able to undertake again and do what they like to do, namely to ensure that people can travel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u53	Madam Secretary of State, the European Package Travel Directive, which has been transposed into Belgian law since May 2018, calls on the government to establish a central contact point for all issues relating to package travel legislation. That contact point should contribute to efficient administrative cooperation in the field of the protection of travellers in the event of insolvency, as well as to simplified supervision of organisers and traders operating in several Member States. The contact point may perform a number of functions. What is the central contact point for Belgium? What specific tasks does it have in Belgium? What was his role since the start of the corona crisis and the ensuing crisis in the travel sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u54	Thank you for this question. The General Directorate of Economic Inspection of the Federal Public Service Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy was designated as the central point of contact referred to in Article 62 of the Package Travel Act. If the competent inspection officers of the Economic Inspection have doubts about the insolvency protection of a specific organiser or retailer established in another Member State, the central contact point in Belgium shall request clarification from the central contact point of the Member State concerned. Conversely, the central contact point in Belgium answers questions from other Member States concerning the insolvency protection of specific organisers and resellers established on Belgian territory. The central contact point in Belgium also makes available on the website of the FPS Economy an overview of the links that allow consumers and companies to check whether the organizer or retailer is a member of an insolvency insurer established in Belgium. For the exchange of general questions on the transposition and interpretation of the European Package Travel Directive, the competent administrations of the Member States may also call on the network of central contact points. Since the outbreak of the corona crisis, the Central Contact Point in Belgium has sent two requests to other Member States to obtain information on the insolvency protection of specific organisers. The central contact point in Belgium has not received requests from other Member States since the outbreak of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-24-definitief-55-commissie-ic387x.u55	Mr President, Minister, my question was particularly informative, because I was not aware of which contact point had been set up here in Belgium. So thank you for the information and wish everyone a good evening.
