ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u1	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55014059C, No. 55014361C, No. 55014362C, No. 55014363C, No. 55014364C and No. Mr Boukili's 55014368C were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u2	We all heard the captivating, poignant story of Hannelore Bedert about all the administrative, financial and legal problems caused by the loss of her partner. She brought to the attention of several issues which, during the first months after the loss of a partner, make administrative handling difficult and thus hinder the grieving process. For some of them, such as pensions and social security, you are not competent, but for some you are. For example, after death, the accounts are closed in a transitional period, including those of the surviving spouse or spouse. On various websites of banks and notaries it is stated that this usually lasts a month, until the certificate of succession can be submitted. However, Mrs Bedert seemed to have taken longer, even a few months. The list of invoices that may be paid from the account is also very restrictive in practice; for example, the cost of caring for children is not taken into account. In addition, it referred to the inadequacy of the funds made available, which may not exceed EUR 5,000, as provided for in Article 1240ter of the Civil Code. In fact, this means that only a maximum of EUR 5,000 can be used during that period to pay all incoming invoices. That will cause problems in practice. Inheritance specialists therefore propose to raise this amount, for example to EUR 10,000. How long does the transitional period last on average and in how many cases does the transition period last longer than two months after the death declaration? What do you think of the list of invoices that may be paid from the deceased's account? Are you considering an extension of the list? If so, what will you add to the list? If not, why are you not in favour of this? Were you already aware of the fact that for many people who lose a partner, the upper limit of EUR 5,000, as stated in Article 1240ter of the Civil Code, is so restrictive that the mourning period is broken by financial and administrative concerns? What is your opinion on the proposal to raise that amount from EUR 5,000 to EUR 10,000? Do you like that proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u3	Mr Van Hecke, the transitional period referred to concerns the period during which an instrument or certificate of succession is to be delivered. According to Article 1240a of the old Civil Code, the instrument of succession is drawn up by a notary and a certificate of succession is issued by the competent office of the General Administration of the Patrimony Documentation of the FPS Finance or by a notary. In accordance with Article 1240a, the release of goods held by a debtor in good faith, in particular of money contained in a bank account, shall be of a liberating nature to that debtor if the release is made to persons designated by a certificate or an inheritance order. The problem facing a bank after a client's death is, after all, whether a release of money to that person has the value of a liberating payment for the bank, in the absence of which it could be exposed to the fact that it would have to pay a second time. Article 1240a is intended precisely to solve that problem. As mentioned on the website of the FPS Finance under the heading "Deblocking bank accounts" about four weeks should be counted for the delivery of a certificate of succession. As regards your second question, Article 1240ter of the Civil Code was introduced by the Law of 28 June 2009. With regard to the invoices that may be paid with the deceased's accounts, the parliamentary discussions of that law deal with the so-called problem of expired invoices. These are invoices in the name of the deceased dating from before the death. The payment of these invoices may become urgent in order to avoid additional costs, court fees or interest. Moreover, the above-mentioned law provides that the amount referred to in Article 1240ter shall be paid to the surviving partner, without prejudice to the payment of the preferential costs referred to in Articles 19 and 20 of the mortgage law. It is more specific about funeral expenses, the cost of the last illness for a year and a number of costs relating to the deceased's last home, such as bills for utilities, housing rentals or the payment of an ongoing mortgage credit. These invoices may be offered to the bank by the notary or by one of the heirs for payment. The legislator's will was clearly to keep those costs outside the so-called living wage of Article 1240ter of the Civil Code, so that the living wage would not be used to pay urgent debts instead of providing for one's own livelihood. However, as long as there is no final certificate or certificate of succession, care must be taken to ensure that the deceased's assets are covered by a freeing payment. I do not have any taboos on the matter and would like to consider extending the list if there were any other common costs. However, we need to make sure that this will have the desired effect. The list is already quite extensive and we need to check whether the balance between creditors under mortgage law is not affected. As far as your third question is concerned, my administration was not previously informed of the so restrictive nature of the scale of the so-called living wage in Article 1240ter of the Civil Code. Article 1240ter gives the longest-lived partner the opportunity to receive a living wage. The pleading clarifies that this amount is intended to meet the basic needs of the surviving partner. Finally, the first paragraph of that article provides that this sum may amount to half of the appropriations available, up to a maximum of EUR 5,000. With regard to your proposal to increase this limit to EUR 10,000, I would like to refer to the parliamentary work on the legislative proposal for Book 2, Title 3 and Book 4 of the Civil Code, in particular the proposed Article 4.65. This legislative proposal is a codification of the existing texts, but your question can certainly be discussed further in this context as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. This is, of course, a complex problem, taking into account, on the one hand, the position of creditors but, on the other hand, the distressing situations that arise in practice. I note that, as far as you are concerned, there are no taboos and that we can review the list. This will have to be done effectively with due attention. You are also prepared to discuss the ceiling of EUR 5,000. That is encouraging and we will continue to do so in the coming weeks and months. For this we can also consult experts and seek advice. We really need to take this to heart, because the poignant situations that sometimes occur now are too bad not to make appropriate analysis and, if necessary, to make improvements.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u5	Minister, regardless of what is currently happening in Namur prison, prison visitation rights were slightly relaxed on 1 February by allowing visits by children between 12 and 15 years of age and by allowing detainees and detainees to request a permanent visitor change. This relaxation of the rules in force resulted in a notice of strike by the prison officers' unions, which is a source of concern for various field associations. If strikes were to take place, they would result in the removal of visits, which are essential for detainees to be able to maintain ties with their families. Minister, since the beginning of the pandemic, families and inmates have suffered from a breakdown of direct contact with a spouse, a parent, with children. What initiatives have been put in place to allow for a link in general, and especially when it becomes impossible to do so by removing visits? Have video conferencing systems been put in place, as is the case in some prisons? Do detainees have the opportunity to express their psychological difficulties as a result of the lack of visits? Are these challenges being addressed by mental health professionals?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u6	Mrs. Zanchetta, the suspension of visits is really a heavy measure that has a strong impact on detainees and their families. I found out for having already made a lot of personal visits to our country's prisons. For this reason, the periods during which detainees were not allowed to receive physical visits were as short as possible. Pandemic management in prisons is aligned as much as possible with external world policy and Sciensano's recommendations. As a result, there were periods during which visits were totally suspended. These periods coincided with periods when severe containment measures were also in place in society. For example, the visits were suspended during the first wave from 14 March to 25 May, and during the second wave from 2 November to 7 December 2020. With regard to the first wave, the rules had been gradually relaxed after 25 May. With regard to the second wave of which we are still suffering the effects at present, the rules have been gradually relaxed since 7 December, but of course keeping all the necessary precautions to protect the health of everyone. During periods of suspension of visits, detainees received a weekly telephone credit of 10 euros on their account in order to facilitate as much as possible social contacts with the family, since almost all now benefit from a cell phone. In addition to the additional call credit, videoconference visits were also introduced from the end of April 2020. This form of visit continued between the two waves and will also continue after the covid-19. To give you an idea of the importance of these calls by video conferencing, I asked my services to compile a count of the number of calls per video conferencing session; they tell me that more than 100,000 calls have already been made in prison. With regard to your second question, psychosocial services and care staff have always been accessible. I would also like to point out that the preparation of the files for appearance before the enforcement court has not been interrupted. The same sentencing court continued its hearings, sometimes even via videoconference, in order to avoid delays as much as possible. These factors have obviously contributed to the reduction of psychological difficulties. In addition, the support services have set up free telephone lines and provided hotlines allowing for specific listening in addition to the one already available via the green numbers that already existed before the pandemic. Religious representatives and moral counselors have also set up such telephone lines. Again, cell telephony has been very useful at such times. Finally, as you can see, both my services and those of the Communities and the Regions have made every effort to accompany prisoners in these times that I know are difficult for all, but which are even more difficult for prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u7	Thank you, Minister. I note from your answer that detainees are not left on the side of the road, if I may say so. It is well known that, in terms of mental health, everyone can suffer from confinement, but confinement can aggravate the state of mental insecurity in which some prisoners may find themselves. In any case, I am pleased to see that things are being put in place by your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u8	Dear colleague, I would just like to add that the strike notice was finally withdrawn by the unions after the good debate we had together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u9	Thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u10	Mrs Gabriels, can you wait for your combined question with Mrs Van Peel, since so many questions are converted into written questions? I have contacted Mrs Van Peel, but I have not yet received an answer as to whether or not she is asking her question. Debates of the European Parliament 55014542C by Mrs Jadin is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interesting questions. As far as your first question is concerned, the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have any current data on the resources allocated by district for combating trafficking and preventing drug use. However, I can refer you to a "Drugs in Numbers" study by BELSPO which dates back to the end of 2011. I believe it is worth collecting up-to-date scientific figures on the resources allocated to preventing and combating the problem of drugs. I will therefore do what is necessary to update these figures. The fight against trafficking is indeed a joint mission of the customs, customs and prosecutorial authorities. The prevention component is primarily the responsibility of the federated entities. As for your second question, the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have figures for prisoners for the first time and the rate of recidivism directly or indirectly justified by drug use. The collection of such data would require an individualized approach to each case to assess the possible nature of the relationship between drug use and conviction. Moreover, while a large proportion of the prison population consumes or has consumed narcotic drugs, it is generally not directly for this reason that they are incarcerated, but rather for trafficking or common law offences. In response to your third question, as I said last week on the occasion of other questions, and as I have just pointed out, I repeat that justice wishes to assume its responsibility as part of a multidisciplinary approach to the whole issue, in collaboration with the strategic unit in charge of drug policy, which was recently recomposed by this government. This meeting could be an appropriate platform for analysing, without any taboo, the effects of our policy. With regard to your fourth question concerning the drug treatment chambers in each court of first instance, consultations are under way. I announced in my policy statement that I wanted to move forward on this point. This subject has already been discussed in my consultation with the federated entities, since it is a joint mission. The federated entities provide support as part of the follow-up, including medical and social assistance or the houses of justice. With regard to the Justice Department, I will release the necessary budgets to recruit additional staff in order to achieve the objective of establishing a drug treatment chamber in each court. These budgets must first be approved, after which recruitment will follow. Entry into service as such is likely to take place only later. In the meantime, some courts have already taken the initiative, notably in Ghent, Bruges, Antwerp, Charleroi and Turnhout, where the first hearing of the drug treatment chamber will take place on Friday, 5 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. As is the case with you, this is a question that I am quite sensitive to. I am convinced that the only criminal approach that has existed for too long is largely inadequate. A preventive and multidisciplinary approach is therefore needed. I am pleased to know that the discussions are under way, in consultation with Justice, the Regions and the Communities, with the aim of developing an approach to prevention and risk reduction, as well as the health approach with regard to narcotic drugs, but also an approach in terms of repression – which is sometimes necessary – within a holistic framework taking into account all the elements. Like you, I'm interested in narcotics. Indeed, there are many things to be heard in this area. As you said on the occasion of your answer, the statistics available are either unavailable or old. It might therefore be interesting to ask BELSPO or other organisations whether it is possible to refine the statistics available to objectiveise the question of criminal policy, which is sometimes fantasized through various facts, and to see how to change the judicial strategy and the entire criminal chain from prevention to repression of this phenomenon of consumption. I am thinking here, in particular, of consumers who are involved in a crime phenomenon, who are subject to insanity and for whom, in my view, the criminal response is not the most appropriate. Further answers should be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u13	Mrs Bury, you have asked for a number of figures. Here's what I'm going to sum up. Administrative arrests were not made. There were two judicial arrests. An adult was made available to the court and was subpoenaed to appear before the court in the short term. A very young 13-year-old minor, who was deprived of his freedom to be heard, was then released because images still had to be exploited and because at this stage his involvement was unclear. No offenders were placed in remand or released under conditions. The adult has Belgian nationality, the minor has Moroccan nationality. The police weren't set up. No corona violations were detected. For the time being, one person was subpoenaed directly by means of a summons by police report. You also ask what measures I will take. Now, you know my opinion: violence against police forces cannot and must not be tolerated and must not go unpunished. A few weeks after my appointment as Minister of Justice, I, together with the College of Attorneys General, reviewed the national circular on violence against members of the police forces so that suspects can no longer go unpunished. The case you raised in your question therefore proves that that amended directive is also being applied, since the adult suspect in custody has been put at the disposal of the King's Attorney and is the subject of a rapid judicial procedure before the courts, so the sentence will follow if the blame is proven. What means do I provide for this? As with other specific cases, including the problems of the Peterbospark in Anderlecht or the Matongewijk in Ixelles, the Brussels parish and the police areas are working on a local approach, district by district, in order to deal more effectively with specific crime in each district. Police and Justice must assume their responsibilities in this respect through a prompt response to such facts. But let us be clear, Justice and the police alone cannot solve this problem in its entirety, of course. Finally, you also had questions about the staff that we are going to use extra. To this end, I refer to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for police personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're saying that the letter of conversion and the right to speed are working. In relation to the facts, I find the number of arrests particularly poor. The problems do not arise in just one day. In the Versailles district, for example, the problems persist. In some places people are afraid to get out. The finger really needs to be held on the wrist. It is therefore regrettable that only one person should be detained, that only one person should be subject to swift justice. You always say with the best of intentions, I know, that the resources are coming. I also know that you have no tolerance for violence. But if you say that the justice system and the police alone will not provide the solution, then I think that is a peculiar argument. Then who did? I believe that they form the basis and that the police and the judiciary can work together to find a solution so that violence is not tolerated. Yesterday we discussed the right to speed, with all the prison sentences that will be carried out. But justice and police will have to find a solution. We will keep the finger on the wrist so that this happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u15	Mrs Bury, Mrs Rohonyi is unreachable, so you may ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u16	Madam President, Mrs Bury, as such, aid is not within my competence, as long as the facts have not been disclosed to the police or the police. This does not alter the fact that intra-family violence is of course close to my heart and that justice is a loyal partner and often also the initiator of a chain-oriented approach to this issue. Many projects and initiatives have been launched since the outbreak of the pandemic. The most important thing is undoubtedly the federal action plan to combat gender-domestic violence after the second wave of COVID-19. This is mainly the responsibility of my colleague, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. I can already say that with regard to urgent measures relating to the covid pandemic, and in view of the common desire to provide a concrete and rapid response to women who are victims of violence, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights has taken many decisions in the areas of prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of offenders. In order to develop the measures, I would refer you to the answer to Mr Matz's oral question on intra-family violence during the lockdown. The development of a chain-oriented approach to familial violence and post-Sexual Violence Care Centres to help victims of violence can also be highlighted. In Flanders there are the Family Justice Centers. In the framework of the Flemish Action Plan to Combat Sexual Violence 2020-2024, scientific research is currently exploring the possibilities to further invest in an intersectoral and systemic approach to intra-family violence. Starting from the existing chain approach systems of intra-family violence and the Family Justice Centers, one looks at whether and how we can evolve into inter-sectoral, multidisciplinary, directly accessible and area-covering centres for intra-family violence. In this way, it is clear where to go for each family in a situation of intra-family violence. This investigation involves all interested parties, so that a supported result can be achieved. Pending this roll-out, the already existing chain approach will be made more territorial. In Flanders, EUR 9 million is allocated to the development of intra-family violence centres. These matters are the responsibility of the Communities and the Regions, which will report on the evolution of the situation in the context of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. There are many other projects, such as pilot projects to promote the recording of complaints at the police station by specialised police officers, specialized intervention teams in this area and the setting up of partnerships with emergency services, so that the specialised police officer goes to the victim to do the interview instead of the other way around. The Judicial Training Institute (IFJ) is fully engaged in the preparation of the organization of the compulsory training on sexual and domestic violence which was introduced by the Act of 31 July 2020. In accordance with international recommendations, including the Istanbul Convention, the Institute worked with a large number of experts from, inter alia, relevant non-governmental organizations and civil society active in combating such violence to develop the programme of multidisciplinary training. The Institute for Judicial Training is indeed in the process of preparing for compulsory training. At present the training programme is ready and the IGO is about to establish the training schedule. This formation is intended to start immediately after the Easter holiday. Several sessions will be planned, the dates of which will be communicated at the same time, so that all the magistrates concerned can follow this training within the legal deadlines. It should be borne in mind that about 1,300 magistrates have to undergo thorough training and about 2,000 magistrates have to undergo basic training. Given the current circumstances in covid times, the sessions will be given in the form of webinars. I come to Mrs Rohonyi's second question. The development of the Family Justice Centers is one of the initiatives the government is working on to help victims of violence, as well as the development of the chain approach to sexual violence in the family context and sexual violence centres. In Wallonia, unlike Flanders, it is not the model of a specific structure of a Family Justice Center that has been chosen, but the model of networked consultation spaces integrating psycho-medical and social services, the police, the prosecutor's office, specialized services for the care of victims and perpetrators, as well as those specialized in the care of minors. The project under development in Namur is named Espace VIF. It is expected to be completed in December 2021. However, given the health context, this period could be extended. The various stakeholders working on this project hope to be able to present it publicly in June this year. Meetings are held in various Walloon cities on this subject. The establishment of a Family Justice Center or other centre with the same aims is currently being considered, particularly in Liège. However, these matters fall within the competence of the Communities and the Regions, which will have to report on developments at the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights. Furthermore, I was surprised by Mrs Bury's question as to whether I intended to set up specialised chambers in family courts. I do not know where she gets the information that I would intend to set up specialised chambers in that sense. The establishment of such chambers with judges specialising in criminal law which also deal with civil matters is far from self-evident, as it concerns different jurisdictions. It is certainly first and foremost appropriate to await the evaluation of the family courts, in accordance with Article 273 of the Law of 30 June 2013, before amending their organisation. The priority approach to intra-family violence by the public prosecutors is already set out in several of the public prosecutors' directives. I refer to COL 3, COL 4, COL 16, COL 18, COL 4 of 2017 and COL 6 of 2017. A new directive on the audiovisual hearing of victims and witnesses of violence is currently being finalised. Early this year, in January, COL 15 introduced a risk assessment tool for police and law enforcement in the event of domestic violence. Last year's COL 20 provides for a revisit by the police after reporting partner violence during the corona crisis. We also want to implement the recommendations made by the Supreme Court of Justice in its report on a better approach to sexual violence. For example, we want to provide for an automatic intervention of the Victim's Home in sexual crimes. In the case of files in which that service has been appointed, it shall be automatically informed of new elements in the file. In this way, Victim's reception can proactively contact the victims. We're introducing a risk assessment, which means that certain files will be subpoenaed in court as a matter of priority. The pilot project in Ghent is an example of this. When the case comes to court, we take the victims, before the hearing begins, separately. In each court a separate room will be provided, so that the victims do not have to wait together with the suspect. Sessions shall take place at a fixed hour. That narrows the waiting time for the victims. For minor victims, we provide automatic second-line assistance by a specialised youth attorney. Finally, we also provide for a proper transfer of files from first instance to appeal, so that those files are given priority in appeals. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I have answered the various questions asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. The way in which you follow up on the problem is a great achievement. We will continue to follow the dossier. Another survey is carried out to determine whether the figures are stagnant, rising or falling. Indeed, we must be vigilant about the figures; I see that you are doing the same. I hope that something really positive comes out of your measures. Furthermore, in the context of my question on specialised family courts, I refer to the motion for a resolution, with a comparison with neighbouring countries, which is discussed in the Committee on Social Emancipation. The Minister responsible at Flemish level and yourself can work with certain passages of it. For example, in Spain, France and Québec, there is also a correctional aspect to the family courts. Those specialized rooms for intra-family violence are a huge success story. The victims stay in the cold much less often. The files can also be linked, while the court is absolutely unaware of this when there are correctional aspects to cases at family courts. That point is not only to follow up, but also to do something with it. The motion for a resolution is still before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u18	Mrs Rohonyi, I do not know if you have heard the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u19	Madam President, it is indeed difficult for me to reply properly, given the fact that I have unfortunately not heard the full response of the Minister. But I wanted to explain to him why I wanted to question him about it. Minister, you are chairing the working group on police and justice at the Interdepartmental Conference on Women's Rights. In addition, it is found that the Temporary Ban on Residence Act is insufficiently enforced or, in any case, is not applied in the same manner according to the public prosecutor's office. We can see that in Antwerp or Limburg the law is enforced, thanks to a good collaboration between the various services: police, justice, rescue service and the famous Family Justice Centers. As a result, victims are not protected in the same way according to their borough. This is something that is not right and which we pointed out in our motion for a resolution, adopted last June, which asked you precisely to consider the application of this law as a priority, by using the I+ Belgium platform but also by giving the King's prosecutor the ability to associate the temporary prohibition of residence with a prohibition of contact, not only for the persons who share the residence concerned, but also for the author who does not share or more the residence of the victim. From what I heard, the development of the Family Justice Centers remains a priority for your government. Still, there is still no calendar. Similarly, you recall that a circular has been adopted by the College of Attorneys General, which contains instructions to make more use of it. Here too, excellent thing, but we see that this circular is not always applied in the same way. I think that this is a problem that could be solved, in particular, with the well-known general training of judges on domestic violence and sexual violence, which we voted for before the summer. For the rest, I really thank you for all the work you're doing. Of course you can count on the support of Parliament, the majority as opposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u20	Mrs Rohonyi, as I have had the opportunity to refer to her in response to a recent question from Mrs Hugon, the work of Haren prison is progressing well, while the arrival of the detainees is scheduled for September 2022. Only then can the transfer of detainees from the three Brussels prisons begin. As I have already indicated, it is a matter of transferring more than 1,000 prisoners in several months. However, it is likely that the operation will begin with those in Forest Prison, particularly because their number is relatively small, but mainly because this building has been facing stability and health problems for years. Having said that, as we are one and a half years from the beginning of this transfer, I cannot be totally assertive, especially since the planning has not yet been finalized. As far as your second question is concerned, the opening of new institutions systematically raises the question of the extension of the penal net. But you know that this problem is much more complex than a case of opening and closing prisons. In this regard, I refer you to the ten-point plan against prison overcrowding, which I have already had the opportunity to address on several occasions. The opening of establishments is one component, but there are nine others. It is the interactions between these areas of work that will ultimately have a real impact on the prison population. In short, I am not going to be content with new openings, but I intend to act on other levers such as more effective reintegration, differentiated detention or the speedy execution of judicial decisions in order to encourage a more firm, faster and humane justice. I will conclude by stressing that such fears had already been expressed when the prisons of Marche-en-Famenne, Beveren and Leuze-en-Hainaut entered service in a few months. However, there was no subsequent increase in overpopulation. It is also premature to give a definitive answer to your third question. It is true that the prison in Saint-Gilles has undergone major renovations in recent years and that the prison in Berkendael is in good condition, unlike the prison in Forest – as I have just pointed out. These considerations will be taken into account when evaluating the Masterplan Prisons. It's going on. I will soon present it to the Council of Ministers. With regard to your last question (...) (Login interrupted)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u21	Mr. Secretary, your connection has been disconnected. The minister's trying to log in again. There you are again, Minister. We had not yet heard the last part of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u22	Madam President, there's a problem with my Wi-Fi. I come to the fourth and final question. Whatever the future of the institutions of Forest or Saint-Gilles, however, it remains that today, and for many months to come, prisoners stay there and many people work there. It is therefore quite normal that we still have to intervene. Four interventions are planned in Forest and nine in Saint-Gilles. You will be provided with a list of these interventions, Ms. Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your answers, which in the end provide no more information than when you answered my colleague Claire Hugon's question. I hear that transfers will begin from Forest Prison, since the emergency is at the level of this prison, in view of the major health problems that arise there. I did not get an answer to the question whether Berkendael prison will be partially maintained, as the mayor of Saint-Gilles recently suggested. I think this is a big problem because the government that decided to build the famous Haren prison and the successive governments had made a formal commitment that this prison would replace the three Brussels prisons and thus completely free their land. It is a matter of honouring the agreement reached on this subject, in line with the argument put forward by the various governments that the construction of the Haren prison was indispensable in view of the old-fashioned three Brussels prisons. Therefore, you cannot claim, today, that Berkendael prison does not really present problems of age and health and that, in doing so, one could imagine that part of this prison could be maintained as it was, especially since the previous governments had suggested the same thing for Namur prison which was supposed to be replaced by Marche-en-Famenne prison and which was ultimately left in the state. It can therefore be observed that prison capacity is only increasing when, as you have said, this is not the objective of the government agreement. In conclusion, let me tell you, Minister, that I am very concerned about the rights of defence in this future Haren prison. As we know, if the video-conferencing component could not be adopted in the context of your bill at the end of December last year, it is because the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority gave rather stinging opinions, particularly with regard to the lack of guarantees as to the confidentiality of hearings that could be conducted in the context of video-conferencing. I therefore hope that you will be extremely vigilant about this issue because Haren's prison is far further from the Brussels Courthouse than the three Brussels prisons it has to replace.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u24	Minister, since April 11, 2019, the minimum service in our country's prisons has been provided for by legislation. This guaranteed service, which has been in effect since the beginning of last year, is important both for the proper management of our prisons and for the rights of prisoners, and it is even essential for the safety of both staff and detainees. It is expected that an evaluation of the mechanism will be carried out one year after its implementation. Our committee was able to hear from the Central Prison Supervisory Board (CCSP) recently and I was able to question its chairman whether the guaranteed service had made it possible to improve the situation of our prisons in the event of a strike. His answer was more than mixed. Minister, how many strike movements in our prisons have taken place since the establishment of the minimum service? Do you confirm that the specific prison plan has been drawn up and is operational for each facility? Have there been any improvements? Have there been any difficulties in the implementation of the system, particularly as regards compliance with the list of staff available during the strike, a list normally drawn up by the head of the establishment? Were there situations in which additional staff were recalled in the event of a strike lasting more than two days? Did this happen without difficulty for the prison directorates? As we arrive at the evaluation period, can you tell us when it will be planned and what service will be responsible for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u25	Colleague, a total of 8 national strike movements took place, including 5 24-hour and 3 48-hour movements. In total, ten local strike movements took place, including three in Leuze-en-Hainaut, one in Mons, one in Bruges, one in the central prison of Leuven and four in Saint-Gilles. In response to your second question, a model plan has been drawn up for each prison. It sets the number of persons present per 24 hours in the event of a strike. This standard is set for prison and technical staff, for management, administration and statutory or contractual nurses. This model plan has been applied since the introduction of the minimum service, in order to allow minimum activities guaranteed by the law of 23 March 2019. With regard to your third question, the assessment provided for in section 20 of the law of 23 March 2019 is being prepared within my administration. I will not prejudge the conclusions of this report by making statements on the subject at this stage. Let me turn to your fourth question. To date, no staff members have been recalled. As far as your last question is concerned, as I have just said, the assessment will take place in accordance with Article 20. It will cover the application of the standard to the personnel provided for in the model plan and the provision of services or activities the offer of which is guaranteed by law during the strike. My administration has already collected the data and is preparing the evaluation. The work is therefore under way and I will certainly return to you as soon as the document is finalized. We won't take too long to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u26	Mr. Minister, thank you. It's perfectly complete as an answer. We will indeed discuss this when the evaluation report is presented to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u27	Madam President, I tabled a question following a press release of 14 days ago from the Flemish Minister of Justice, Mrs Demir, in which she called for the introduction of a Salduz law for victims and free legal support in an interrogation, as is the case for perpetrators. At first, she saw that useful for victims of sexual violence. This can be particularly useful for this target group. I think it is a noble objective, but of course it costs a lot of money. For my questions on this subject, I would like to refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u28	Madam President, in the questions I can see some interesting arguments, either in one direction or in another. We have good, open and constructive contacts with Zuhal Demir's cabinet, both at cabinet level and at my level. So we will have constructive discussions on this. The underlying ratio of Minister Demir's proposal, in particular considering how to provide optimal assistance to victims, deserves full support. In substance, I can give you the following items. It's a bit technical, but I want to be correct. A distinction must first be made between two types of legal assistance. There is first-line legal assistance within the competence of the Communities. The cost tag goes with that. There is also second-line legal assistance, which can be wholly or partly free of charge and falls under federal jurisdiction. From what I have heard, first-line assistance for victims would be that they would already be able to have an interview with a specialised lawyer in the care centres. My colleague, Mr Demir, is responsible for the concrete elaboration and discussion of this matter with all the actors involved. I can give you an answer from the federal level about the second-line legal assistance, in particular the assistance of a pro-Deo attorney during the interrogation. In addition, there is an important nuance that needs to be corrected first. Salduz legislation provides for the presence of an attorney while interrogating a suspect. International obligations do not require this to be free of charge. Salduz assistance does not necessarily mean second-line legal assistance, except in the case of a minor. Salduz should not therefore be aligned with automatic free-of-charge. If one is not eligible for legal second-line assistance, then as a suspect, one simply pays the Salduzad lawyer himself after the hearing. I would remind you that the right to an attorney's assistance by the victim during an interrogation is already possible. This was clearly stated in the discussion of the 2016 Salduz-bis legislation. Article 5a (3) of the preceding Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the injured person has the right to be assisted by a lawyer. This provision may also cover the questioning and confrontation. The injured person, the victim or the witness who himself takes the initiative to be assisted by a lawyer in an interrogation has the right to do so. If the second-line assistance of its own motion and for all the victims provided for the free performance of the lawyer in the interview of the victim, the affordability of the system would be compromised. If a person wishes to rely on the second-line legal assistance, he or she must comply with the financial access thresholds in order to qualify for a so-called pro-Deo lawyer. The granting of all or part of the second-line legal assistance is based on the criterion of insufficient financial resources. So that system also applies to the so-called Salduz interviews for suspects. Granting free of charge on the basis of the status of a person and no longer on the basis of means of subsistence is a serious game changer who threatens to discriminate against persons in similar situations but who do not have the status of victims. I have given you a number of arguments, but I always want to look at suggestions and better proposals, including with my Flemish colleague. Victims are at the heart of our policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u29	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the clarification. Legal support is always important, including for victims, but free of charge for everyone is priceless and not necessary. It is therefore important to proceed with caution and thoughtfulness, including in communication. I have noted that you are working constructively with your colleague. So to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u30	Madam President, Minister, there is therefore constructive cooperation with Minister Demir's cabinet. I would urge you to do this further, but I am sure you will. I understand your explanation, of course, but I think that between these two extremes is still a sea of opportunity that we should be able to discuss. The principle that a victim receives the same assistance in this way, but does not become the victim of an expensive account, is quite justifiable. I hope that we will be able to come back to this once you have had more consultation with the Demir cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u31	Madam President, Minister, figures recently published by the Flemish Minister of Education, Ben Weyts, show that in the last five months, the period September 2020 January 2021, 305 files were forwarded to the parquet by the Flemish Centres for Apprenticeship. That is almost eight times more than the 39 files in the same period of the previous school year. That is why we are right to talk about an alarming evolution. It is therefore important that the public prosecutors give absolute priority to the problem and that these dossiers are dealt with as a matter of priority. We are talking here about the well-being and safety of children who, here, we both agree that we deserve the greatest possible protection in our society. That's why I have the following questions. First of all, are you aware of this disturbing evolution? What initiatives will you take to ensure that they are dealt with by the public prosecutors as a matter of priority? Secondly, can you give me an overview of the number of files per parquet? Of course, I am satisfied if you give me the answer to that question in writing. Are there major differences between the different provinces? Thirdly, it concerns figures relating to Flanders. Can you provide me with information on the situation in French-speaking Belgium? How many disturbing files were forwarded there?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Dillen, thank you for your questions. I share your view that the large number of cases notified to the public prosecutor is not particularly reassuring. However, it is rather reassuring that it shows that the CLBs, i.e. the Flemish Centres for Apprenticeship, the community services, the youth parks and the federal government are able to find each other well. After all, it is important to know that the parquet is always following notifications by the CLBs. The CLBs can report worrying situations in two ways when they estimate that they themselves can no longer safeguard the child's development opportunities. A first way is the normal way through the notification of mandated provision. The mandated facility shall examine the distressing situation of the minor and may refer the minor to the Public Prosecutor's Office if the provision of youth assistance is socially necessary but no appropriate voluntary youth assistance is accepted and if it is refused to participate in the examination of the social necessity. A second way is in exceptional situations a direct notification by the CLB to the King's Attorney, which is possible on the basis of Article 458a of the Criminal Code. The D.A. is always following up on these two types of notifications. After a referral by a mandated provision, the file is dealt with immediately and, in principle, the juvenile court is always sought on the basis of Article 47, 1°, of the Decree on integrated youth aid. Following a direct notification to the King's Attorney on the basis of Article 458a of the Criminal Code, if the conditions for an urgent action by the Juvenile Court are fulfilled, the juvenile court shall be brought forward on the basis of Article 47, 2° of the Decree on integral youth aid. I will give you the figures you are asking for in writing when they are available, including those relating to the situation in French-speaking Belgium. The most relevant question is of course: what is the cause of the increase in the number of notifications? I believe that a causal link to the corona crisis is difficult to measure. An increase in the number of acute serious danger situations may be due to the corona measures, making children and parents more at home in sometimes difficult circumstances. Another possibility is that the problems are detected less quickly, so that the situation is already quite escalated when the CLB is switched on. However, this causal link is not certain. Statistics from the Public Prosecutor's Office have shown an increase in the number of VOC files, worrying educational situations in recent years. Any faster notification of the CLBs to the parquets may have to do with the working conditions of the CLBs in the corona crisis. This should be checked with the Flemish Community. Any slower start-up of voluntary assistance may also be linked to the working conditions in the corona crisis. Of course, as Minister of Justice, I cannot comment on this either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed very positive that there is good cooperation with the public prosecutors and that we are playing the ball very briefly in the interests of our children and our young people. Do I understand that you will give me the figures yourself in answer to my second and third questions? Or do you want me to put a separate written question to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u34	If they're available, I'll get them to you myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u36	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55014584C by Mrs Dillen about an app to make chemsex parties safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u37	Madam President, I thought Mr De Wit had also tabled a question on this subject. In that case, we can match the two questions today or next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u38	I've seen that question pass, but I thought she wasn't filed until today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u39	I am prepared to postpone the question until next week and to deal with it together with Mrs De Wit's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u40	That's very kind of you, Mrs. Dillen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament So 55014584C by Mrs Dillen will be postponed until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u42	Madam President, Minister, according to prison administration figures, 592 people in Belgian prisons have been infected with covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic. This means that more than 5% of the prison population has been or is still affected by the disease. My question predates current events at Namur Prison, where more than 50 per cent of the people, between the detainees and the staff of Namur Prison, are infected with coronavirus. In order to provide care to prisoners in prisons, including those in Bruges and Lantin, medicalized sections have been set up where inmates who suffer from a serious form of covid-19 reside. Care is therefore provided by the Ministry of Justice. This brings us to something even more recent than my question and on which I will ask you on another occasion. It concerns the allowance for nurses in prisons. It is well known that, despite the professionalism of medical workers in these prisons, the quality of prison care and medical follow-up remains largely inadequate to date. The very medical coverage of prisoners differs and results in distinctions in the quality of care provided. And I am certain, minister, that you share this view that a patient is a patient, whether in detention or not. Therefore, a transfer of the management of health care in prison to the Public Health FPS is encouraged by the World Health Organization. This is also reflected in your own political guidance note. In the same text, you state that you want to improve the quality of health care in prison, in particular through this and through pilot projects. The crisis reveals this in particular, we observe that this equal right of access to health care for everyone must be realized and implemented as soon as possible. Minister, could you tell me how many medical personnel (doctors, nurses, pharmacists, etc.) Do these medical units count per inmate? Are they full-time or part-time? Could you tell me whether these prisoners, with equivalent symptoms, enjoy a quality of care equivalent to those they might receive in hospital? Could you let me know the status of your contacts with the Public Health FPS and the pilot projects that are planned to date? How long do you intend to implement them?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u43	Madam President, Mr Aouasti, both in Bruges and Lantin, the covid-19 sections are followed daily by the general practitioner who deals with this situation. Besides, I've visited both sections in the last few weeks. In Lantin, this is the Chief Medical Officer. As for nurses, there is no specific framework for the covid-19 sections, but the service is provided day and night, seven days a week – as the Red Cross has seen. It should be recalled that only prisoners with mild symptoms stay in these sections. Those with more severe symptoms are in section H of the medical centre. If their state of health requires further care, they are transferred to AZ Sint-Jan in Bruges or to the Regional Hospital Centre of the Citadelle in Liège. For your second question, prisoners who do not have or have few symptoms do not automatically go to this service, but remain in solitary confinement, as would be the case in free society. Patients are transferred to these sections and are adequately treated. There is also a collaboration with an outpatient hospital in Bruges and Lantin, in order to be able to meet the needs in case of negative developments, which would make hospitalisation necessary. On your third question, I can inform you that a first – very constructive – meeting with my colleague Frank Vandenbroucke was held in early February, with the aim of preparing for the transfer of health care by project, and to discuss it with all relevant partners, including at the level of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health. As mentioned in a previous answer to a question by Mr Pivin, you will forgive me if I do not stick to a precise timing, given the complexity of this matter. We are working hard on this and will make gradual progress in the pilot projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll start with the end. I understand perfectly well that you were not giving too precise a schedule. I can hear it, especially since, as you say, matter is complex. It's a complicated transfer, which probably has to phase out by project, as you said. I can understand that. My concern, regardless of the modus operandi or vehicle, namely a transfer from Justice to Public Health, is to provide quality health care to our inmates. Whatever he is, a patient is a patient. I assume you share that concern. I see that things are being put in place. I also note that it is done in collaboration, when patients have somewhat heavier symptoms, with specialized medical services to which patients are transferred, whether at the hospital in Bruges or in Liège. But I find that in the in-between, the answer indicates a weakness. You're talking about general practitioners, not medical specialists, as we can see in normal hospital units. In addition, the necessary and useful collaboration with an outpatient hospital ultimately demonstrates the weakness of health care for inmates. I am confident, I also trust you in your firm commitment to the transfer project to the Public Health FPS. In my view – and I think we share it – we simply need to be vigilant in this period of time, to be able to offer each and every individual health care that will lead a dignified life, whether or not one is detained. The conditions of deprivation of liberty and prison overcrowding cannot add up the fact that we cannot even be treated legitimately and naturally when we suffer from certain pathologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u45	Minister, at the end of last year a draft law was adopted that resulted in the Law of 20 December 2020 laying down various temporary and structural provisions on Justice in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus. Article 46 of that Act provides that in a number of cases, until 31 March 2021, but renewable, the Chamber for the Protection of the Company should no longer hear the interned in person but only his lawyer and the Public Prosecutor's Office, unless the Chamber finds otherwise by reasoned decision. There shall be no appeal against this decision. The Constitutional Court has decided to stay this provision. According to the Court, the objective of limiting contacts as far as possible during a pandemic is legitimate, but it considers that the provision goes beyond what is strictly necessary and that less far-reaching measures should be possible. The same remark was made during the discussion in committee of this draft law. We had tabled an amendment to remedy this problem by actually reversing the principle. We suggested that the interned person could be heard in person, unless it was justified not to do so. The majority decided not to follow this amendment and adopt the text as it was and today there is the suspension by the Constitutional Court. Minister, I would have liked to have heard your views on the decision of the Constitutional Court. What measures will you take to ensure that interned persons can be heard in person within the context of corona? Finally, are you in favour of the fact that the numerous measures taken by the government to combat the coronavirus, which have an impact on certain fundamental rights, can be reviewed by the Constitutional Court, as has happened in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u46	Colleague, I have taken note of the suspension by the Constitutional Court, but I await the substantive decision on the destruction of this provision of law. I shall therefore not comment on this at the moment. However, in view of suspension, hearing an inmate in person is once again the rule and representation by a lawyer the exception. We will apply this and take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the sanitary regulations so that interns who have to appear before the chamber for the protection of society are heard in person. As you know, the room for the protection of society may be in a prison, in a courthouse or in the institution where the interned resides. As a function of its place of residence, the sanitary rules in force there will be complied with. Then I come to your third question. I am in favour of the democratic rule of law and the rules of the rule of law, as reviewed and controlled by the Council of State or the Constitutional Court, depending on the nature of the measure. Transparency also requires parliamentary validation and control. That is exactly what the draft pandemic law, which the government submitted to Parliament last week, aims to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that today the interns are still being heard. That is the way, before the decision is taken on the substance, to see if it can indeed be safe. I am convinced that it must also succeed in a safe manner. I am waiting with you for what will be decided on the ground. You are already preparing yourself in case there is any destruction in practice. That's good. I would like to hear you say that you are in favour of checks and checks. I think it's a little cynical that you say that the government's pandemic law should remedy that. I would advise you, however, to read a number of opinions from constitutional specialists, who have just said that the new pandemic law proposed by your government is actually redrafting one constitution with a new constitution, that the government is only drawing more power towards itself and it is actually becoming even more undemocratic. However, that is a debate for another time. I understand that you are in favour of the principle, but that it may still be a little difficult to implement it. I therefore assume that the pandemic law as it stands today will be looked at very closely by you, because it does not fit in with the principles you have just set out.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55014766C is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Loones converted 55014773C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u49	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, first of all, the approximately 1 million judicial decisions taken annually are currently being monitored through the various file management applications MACH and others. The ideal solution would be an IT tool that automatically anonymizes the selected data from the selected and published judgments and judgments. Unfortunately, today we have not evolved so far that it is 100 % possible. In the Netherlands, anonymizing is happening in a manual way today, but the website case law.nl publishes only a small selection of judicial decisions. In France and Austria, Justice is experimenting with such tools, but a perfect solution has not yet been found. Therefore, a manual anonymisation of court decisions, before they are published, is the only option for the time being. Secondly, as I have already said, there is a project in progress at Justice to complete the legal framework for the database of judgments and judgments and to establish the database, taking into account the needs of both internal and external users of Justice and, in the field of anonymisation, the rules on the protection of personal data. A working group consisting of representatives of the judicial order, the FPS and the data protection officers of the FPS and of the judicial order is responsible for the elaboration of the provisions relating to the anonymisation to be included in the new legal framework. Based on the legal framework and the agreed criteria on the anonymisation of personal data, it is intended to develop or develop custom IT tools that allow, purchase, develop or allow semi-automatic anonymisation. We are currently in contact with a number of Belgian universities, such as the ULB and Ghent University, research groups and technology providers specializing in natural language processing and semantic data processing. At the same time, we are monitoring developments at European level and working towards cooperation between the justice partners in the Member States, as we are all facing the same challenge. In any case, there will always be a need for human control of the result of automated anonymisation. Thirdly, in addition to the Working Group on Anonymisation, which is working in the framework of the Database project on determining the scope of anonymisation and in which the courts and courts are represented, there is also a Working Group on Standardisation. That working group, which is supported by the College of the Courts and Courts, examines the definition of the fields in the judgments that can be regarded as pertinent metadata. Defining those metadata should facilitate automatic or semi-automatic anonymisation. Just to remind you, JUPORTAL is indeed a public database for Belgian case law managed by the ICT staff, but it is the individual courts that determine which judgments and judgments they anonymize and publish in the database. This is done on the basis of legal criteria laid down by the management committee of the Phenix information system. The underlying database JUPORTAL is not the publicly accessible electronic database referred to in the 2019 Law which enters into force on 1 September 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-03-definitief-55-commissie-ic395x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and hope that progress can be made in this area.
