ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Leysen and Bayet, who refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u3	Madam President, thank you for a well-stocked morning meeting. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law amends the Code of Friendly and Forced Recovery of Tax and Non-fiscal Claims. Article 77 of that law lays down the obligation for public institutions to share data with the general administration officials of collection and recovery, the tax authorities. This means that, in the context of its powers of recovery, the tax authority may request information on the taxpayers from other public authorities. [[Rumur on the benches]] Madam Chair, I understand that this is not the most exciting subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u4	Colleagues, I ask for silence. Mr Donné has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u5	Mr Minister, I would particularly like to refer to Article 10 of the draft law, which supplements Article 77 of the law with a third paragraph which provides that the exchange of information may also be carried out in bulk by electronic means, in order to determine the size of the assets and income that must be known to ensure the recovery of tax and non-fiscal claims. In other words, from now on, the tax authorities will no longer have to request specific information on a taxable person per file, but will be able to do so in bulk by electronic means. I have serious criticism of this and I am not alone with that. The Council of State and the Data Protection Authority were also very critical. It's three cases. The first concerns the nature of the data which the tax authority can obtain from all other public institutions. According to the explanatory statement, it should be understood very widely. These are not only financial data from taxpayers, but also data indicating the source of the funds, such as data relating to the link with the employer. Moreover, it is also a question of financial data of persons other than the person liable for tax. In short, the legal text itself is very little precise, so that the tax authority, on the basis of that provision, can obtain very much personal information from the taxpayer and from persons who have a link with the taxpayer. This is also very problematic for the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. The GBA states on this point that a general and broad formulation of the information to be requested may give rise to a sufficient provision of the data subject. It also urges that the categories of personal data that can be requested be clearly defined in the law. This has not been done and is a definite violation of the principle of legality, which the Council of State is also committed to. Moreover, according to the GBA, there is no guarantee that the competent official will effectively confine himself to obtaining information which is sufficient, relevant and not excessive for the recovery of the debt. The first conclusion is that there is no clearly defined brake on the information that the tax authorities can obtain. The second problem is the bulk exchange of data. This is not just about a lot of information about a taxpayer, it is also about information about many taxpayers. What exactly does that mean? According to the explanatory memorandum, data exchange is carried out in bulk by electronic means, for example between two servers, where the data are supplied to the general administration of collection and recovery, which in turn make the data available to the official of recovery concerned. Since the data of a mass of taxable persons are transmitted at the same time, it becomes even more difficult to verify whether that information is actually needed for recovery. The law is also not clear from when data can be retrieved. Citizens and businesses who pay their taxes correctly could therefore also be covered by the scheme. The explanatory statement is an outstanding debt to be recovered by the tax administration. It is therefore not necessarily a question of lapsed tax and non-fiscal debts, but also of debts that are open. In this way, the tax authorities will be able to collect and process a huge amount of information. This brings me to the third and final problem, which arises by reading the legal text together with the law on the processing of data by the FPS Finance. That Law of 3 August 2012 provides that the FPS Finances may later process any legally collected personal data in the context of the performance of one of its assignments in the context of another assignment. For example, the FPS Finance can also merge the collected data into a data warehouse. You announce in your policy paper that the Data Processing Act will be updated. We do not know what that will mean, but in the meantime we are giving a blank cheque to the tax authorities regarding the personal data of potentially all citizens. Such a measure is therefore completely disproportionate. There is no reason to store the private data of citizens and companies who pay their taxes correctly and in time in bulk with the tax authorities. You yourself motivate this by stating that the measure is done out of customer friendliness and administrative simplification for the citizen. This simplification is clearly only available to the public authorities and the tax authorities themselves, which make it easier to obtain a mass of data. The citizen himself has absolutely nothing to do with this and, through the draft law, returns a piece of financial privacy. Minister, the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens, particularly privacy, is very important to us. Containments of these can only be exceptional and when necessary and clearly defined in the law. The government has a very bad track record in terms of protecting our fundamental rights. With this legal text, you will continue with that momentum. You give the taxis carte blanche to request and store information about citizens in bulk without adequate checks and balances. Your words in committee that things are not going to be this fast are far from reassuring. We shall vote against the draft law with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u6	Madam President, Mr Donné, thank you for your comments, on which, as you know, we have already had a wide-ranging discussion in committee. You are completely wrong to suggest that carte blanche be given. It's not because data is in the FPS Treasury database, that anyone can just pull them out. You know that, but you do not make that clear in your explanatory statement. That is a great pity, because what you are saying is not correct. Retrieval may be carried out within the recovery procedure. That means that this is the end of a chain. There's already been an inning. There is a debt that one would like to collect. It didn't work out through the usual inning channels. The data shall be used at the end of the chain and at the time of recovery. Within the existing legal framework, therefore, it is very clear that this is a very limited efficiency, which continues to apply here. It is still a matter of on-demand information processing, linked to files, but of course more than one file in future, which means administrative simplification and no longer requires the duplication of enquiries with citizens. So the performance you make of what is in front of you is not correct. I'd like to make that right on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u7	Minister, we have indeed had the discussion twice in committee. We're not on the same page. Your intention may be good at the moment, but I have more faith in what is written on paper in a legal text. At that time, I tabled an amendment to lay down what you are now saying, that clarification, by law. You haven't been willing to do that. If you are interested in your intention, you should have accepted my amendment. A second point of criticism concerns the Council of State and the GBA, which clearly stipulate that a classification of personal data should be included in the law. That is the principle of legality. That is also the case in the Constitution. That is a double criticism that you have not taken into account. You didn't go into that. My criticism is that the information that can be requested by the tax authorities is far too broad. For my second point of criticism, namely what the tax authorities will later be able to do with that information, I also received no legal guarantee. So my double criticism remains. I am also very curious to see exactly what will be in the Data Protection Act that you will be submitting in the course of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u8	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u9	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2184/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2184/8) The bill has 30 articles. The draft law has 30 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u10	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u11	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u12	Madam Chair, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u13	Madam President, we have already discussed this extensively in committee, but I would like to raise a number of points. We have a piece before us that ultimately grants a waiver to the country of Somalia through the IMF. The IMF is actually operating here as a kind of global financial redistribution and transfer mechanism, with a number of richer Member States paying for the late payments of poorer Member States. That is exactly what the general explanatory statement says, and I quote: 'In addition, additional bilateral contributions were expected from the countries with the strongest economies, in order to ensure fair burden-sharing and to avoid a lack of financing'. All well and good, that is well formulated, but one can hardly regard Somalia as a normal state. Actually, that's some kind of failed state. There is disruptive violence in that country due to a civil war between different clans and subclans. In addition, the Islamic group Al-Shabaab was given a foothold in Somalia. In the meantime, therefore, the country has entered a vicious circle of destabilising violence. As a result, guaranteeing both physical and financial security in Somalia is a utopia. Those are not our words, but the words of war journalist Rudi Vranckx less than a year ago. The country is at the very last place on the corruption index of Transparency International. By the absent government, public funds are used for private purposes by these clans, who actually run the country. They're asking for bribes for basic services. Political self-service for the clans is the rule. Mafia gangs demand protection money from civilians through continued violence. Because of all this corruption, it is, of course, more difficult for a government to organise efficient governance. In short, it actually shows an unhealthy portion of naivety and willful blindness to see some perspective of stabilisation in Somalia. The historic opportunity for Somalia of economic stability, inclusive growth and poverty reduction seems far from being seen, despite the expectations of the present draft law. The many regimes that the country is rich are corrupt and do not do what can be expected of them. Forsaken debts would therefore be a false signal that the Somali authorities would not encourage drastic reforms of their policies. This gives the message that borrowing money for Somalia is ultimately free, especially at the expense of the Western IMF members. Therefore, the country will not be given incentives not to waste its resources on self-service but instead to make sustainable investments, for example in social security, education, infrastructure and so on. For these reasons, our group will not approve what is before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u14	Madam President, cancelling the debt granted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to Somalia, if solidarity between peoples is defended, as is my case and as is our case, seems obvious. And yet, there are a lot of comments to make on this text. First, the explanatory memorandum refers to the cancellation of Somalia's debt. In fact, when you look at the content and the explanatory memorandum, it is only a question of relief of this debt. In order to qualify for this relief, Somalia must meet several conditions. This is also quite paradoxical because the country must first clear its arrears. In fact, it is said that this is debt cancellation, but Somalia must first pay in order to benefit from debt relief. This is what the Committee for the Abolition of Illegitimate Debt (CADTM) says: "By demanding the repayment of arrears and by applying late penalties on such old debts, the behaviour of the IMF and the Paris Club vis-à-vis its official debtors is not finally so far away from those of vulture funds." Mr Laaouej was familiar with the vulture funds, and he had made a proposal on the subject, a proposal which had passed. I go on to quote the CADTM: "In short, in order to get out of debt, it is essential, according to their conditions, to become more indebted". This is also explained in the explanatory memorandum, which states that Italy has granted a loan to Somalia to clear the arrears. Another condition is structural adjustment plans. Indeed, the country is going to have to conclude an agreement involving such a plan, a reform of which those who follow the policy of the IMF are aware of the devastating nature for the populations to which it applies, while benefiting Western multinationals. In addition, this relief is limited. Only then can the debt be partially cancelled - cancellation which will only concern the outstanding amount which will be limited to the so-called "non-ODA" part (Official Development Assistance). A distinction is made between ODA debt, at low interest rates, and non-ODA debt, whose interest is set by financial markets. In the end, it is not a gift that is given to this country. The CADTM analyses debt cancellation as follows: "When at the initiative of creditors, debt cancellations do not take into account their responsibilities in situations faced by indebted countries. Moreover, they are always accompanied by a lot of political and economic conditionality able to satisfy their interests: structural adjustment plan, free trade agreement and debt-to-investment conversion are some of the tools available to creditors to keep their grip on these countries." The origin of this debt must also be questioned. Where did it come from? In this case, CADTM tells us that the United Kingdom and Italy have bequeathed a colonial debt to Somalia, without any real reparations being made since then. Subsequently, Somalia was subjected to a military dictatorship supported by foreign powers. Then, at the turn of the 1990s, the United States supported various "warlords" to protect oil interests, including those of CONOCO. According to CADTM, the United States has probably contributed to the feeding of wars that have destructed this country. In the end, and this is still a conclusion of the CADTM, but that we share: "Issues of dictatorial regimes, contracted against the interests of the people and in the personal interest of the leaders and people close to power, and whose creditors know the destination of the funds lent, these debts are by nature odious and illegitimate; and such debts must be repudiated".
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u15	It is a discussion that we have already had in committee, where I have already answered all these comments and questions. The committee made it very clear that we do not deny that Somalia is obviously facing a number of problems, but it was also stated that the waiver is a prerequisite for the IMF to carry out a more targeted monitoring. A number of conditions aimed at reducing poverty have been discussed with Somalia. The Belgian contribution to which reference has just been made is a contribution to that financing and is less than 1%. Of course, we, and certainly the IMF, will closely monitor the situation, including the conditions laid down.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u16	Minister, the fundamental problem is that the reasoning is reversed, both in this document and in the IMF. It acts as if Somalia's unmistakable debts were at the root of the failing Somali economy and society. Nothing could be further from the truth, of course. I have already listed the causes of Somalia's failure: a lack of government authority and persistent violence, especially under the influence of Islam terrorism. It is not the debts, but the different clans, the terrorists, the endemic corruption and the failing central authority that are holding back economic growth. As long as one does not remove the cause one can continue to forgive debts to such a country, but one will never resolve it. We must first ensure that the fundamental causes of these problems are addressed before debt is written off, otherwise it will become an incessant spiral of debt being built up and forgiven again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u17	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u18	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2316/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2316/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u19	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u20	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vanden Burre, who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u21	Madam President, this concerns the transposition of two European directives, one in the defence field and the other in the health sector. Firstly, for Defence, this VAT Directive does not provide for a general exemption for the supply of goods or services for security or defence purposes. This is only an exemption for supplies to armed forces of any State party to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, in so far as these forces participate in a common defence effort outside their own state. For the Flemish Interest, VAT should remain the full competence of the Member States and Member States should be able to apply those exemptions themselves. Defence efforts should not be a European issue for us in general either. The second directive provides for a VAT exemption for the purchase and import of medical equipment made available to the Member States by the Commission for itself and the many agencies it has set up in the meantime, also in the wake of the corona crisis. That fits wonderfully in the spirit of a so-called stronger European health union. We do not support such a European health union. I believe that Corona has proved that the response to the corona crisis was mainly with the Member States. It is the Member States that have had to tackle this corona crisis. Europe has played a subordinate role in this. Just this morning, as part of the vaccination campaign, it was said in the news that Britain scored much better in relation to the European countries in terms of vaccination and purchase prices, now that they are no longer part of the European Union, but that is another discussion. For us, these VAT matters must remain the exclusive competence of the Member States. Defence must also remain the competence of the Member States. For all these reasons, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u22	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the project under consideration is a problem in terms of methodology. It contains two main components. The only common feature of these is that they concern VAT. Apart from this, one chapter deals with VAT exemptions for deliveries or imports of goods and services by armed forces carrying out activities within the framework of the European Union's Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). The other part concerns temporary VAT exemptions in the context of the fight against the covid pandemic. You will admit that these subjects are quite distant. It is all the less understandable that these two subjects are included in the same bill because they are the transposition of two different directives that have different deadlines and one of them is only partially transposed by this bill. There was therefore no reason to proceed with this consolidation. The minister explained to us in committee that it was easier to do so. I can understand that, minister. But you should, in my view, be more concerned about the lack of political readability of this kind of incongruous grouping. I am thinking in particular of the members of the population who are following parliamentary activities and who are wondering what vote will take place on which text. Indeed, how to vote on a text that mixes such different subjects. I can understand that sometimes we use tote laws with various tax provisions. But, on the method, a work of reflection must be done. I hope, Minister, that you will hear this message for the future. On the substance, as much as we can agree with the part relating to the VAT exemptions related to covid, we have serious reservations, if not more, about the part relating to military activities. It deals with exemptions within the framework of the European Union's common security and defence policy. If I sum things up in a somewhat caricatural way, I would say that this is an exemption from VAT for the military occupation forces of our territory. It is true that this occupation is carried out with the approval of the government, but it is still the presence of foreign troops in our country. The extension of the VAT exemption to the common security and defence policy is motivated by the fact that NATO troops active in our territory benefit from it. In our opinion, we should have done the opposite. It should have been thought that it is not normal for NATO to benefit from this exemption and not the CSDP, and to remove the exemption for both. This brings us to a substantive issue, Minister. Unfortunately, the Minister of Defence is not present. Otherwise, I would have had the opportunity to tell her that she is not the Minister of Defence but the Minister of the Attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u24	It's not specific to her. I was already saying that to his predecessors. Mr Laaouej, I understand that it makes you uncomfortable, since it is part of your party. It is a reality that, in our countries, the ministers of defence – and I do not personally attack it – are ministers of attack, for a very simple reason: our troops do not defend our territory. When our army is active, it is active outside the borders of our territory. It is there to make interventions abroad that take place mainly within the framework of NATO or the European Union's defence policy; they are often interventions of aggression and of defence of the strategic and economic interests of our countries in general. This is not usually a specific Belgian initiative. It is about defending the oil interests, for example, or the geostrategic interests of the powers that make up NATO. It is, moreover, generally the United States that imposes the policy to be followed and the other countries are following blindly. European or Belgian multinationals generally argue because they have interests to defend in this context. That's the reality. To the PTB, we have long opposed this kind of foreign intervention. When troops present in the territory act in this context of European defence or NATO defence, we do not support these policies and we do not consider that they should be granted this exemption from VAT. As I said in the introduction, this text has two very different parts, one that we support and the other that we do not support at all. If the two texts had been proposed separately, we would have voted for each other. Since we cannot express this here, we will abstain from the whole text, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u25	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u26	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2343/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2343/1) The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u27	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u28	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u29	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u30	Madam President, Mrs De Sutter, thank you for being here to discuss the current item on the agenda. Madam President, I understand that Minister Dedonder cannot be here today because of the quarantine measures. However, I am firmly convinced that the Minister will have informed Mrs De Sutter extensively and that Mrs De Sutter may be able to provide an answer if I ask a number of questions. Colleagues, each year there is the military quota for this, now for the year 2022. Basically, that's a formality. It is a document which must be approved by Parliament each time and which sets out the framework for the number of military personnel that may be employed and operational in the course of the following year. Even now, that document is before us. We will also consistently support the military quota for 2022 with our previous voting behaviour. I can give that to you in advance. I would also like to thank the government and the Minister in particular, because less haste has been done compared to 2020 when the army quota was rushed through Parliament. I've been looking it up for a while. The document was then submitted to Parliament on 14 December 2020 and adopted on 17 December 2020. Our comments have been taken into account and we have done a more decent job this year. I am therefore pleased that it has been submitted in good time. It may be useful, even for the future, to do the following. We and the Defense Department are learning organizations. Parliament must be a learning organisation. I hope that the Minister will also be open to adjustments. For future discussions in the coming years, i.e. for the military quota 2023, 2024, etc., we must make use of the draft law in order to obtain an integral picture of where our staff are. An explanation could be given about the age pyramid, the occupation in the various units and the staff turnover. The famous attraction is a real working point. The retirements, too. All these points are worth a debate in themselves. With a view to establishing the military continent, the Minister could give us a proactive briefing. I think it makes sense for us to be able to discuss it here in plenary and certainly in committee when it comes to the debate. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this government is very ambitious in terms of defence personnel policy. The coalition agreement talks about 10,000 new soldiers, new recruitments in the course of this legislature. That is also stated in the Minister's policy paper. So this government is ambitious in terms of personnel policy, and that is good. We support that. We've always said that. In the past, before the creation of Vivaldi, we have worked together in committee across party boundaries on a resolution on personnel policy. We therefore support the various plans currently being drawn up in this area. But what do we see when we get into the concrete figures? Then we have to note that the number of employees in Defence will fall again in 2022 compared to 2021. For 2021, the number of military personnel in the military quota was 24,691. The Minister wanted to bring about a great turnaround, but we do not yet see it, because the decline is continuing. The number is falling to 24,599. The number of active military personnel, which fell for the first time under the 25 000 standard in 2021, continues to fall to 24,599. That is precisely when we have very ambitious plans. Look at the development of the Cyber component. Just look at the combination of maintaining our current capabilities, with the Navy fleet and the F-16s. At the same time, a replacement programme should be launched. Those two capabilities run together is a serious effort that is demanded from the Defense Department. But just then we see that the number of effective soldiers continues to fall, to 24,599. This is compensated by an increase in the number of reservists, but of course this is not a concrete solution to guarantee day-to-day operation. This is also mentioned in the ambitions formulated in the current strategic vision. Madam President, Minister, 2022 is an important year, including for Defence. Perhaps next week, hopefully in the presence of the Minister, we will be able to discuss this in detail during the debates that await us. We will talk in detail there about the actualisation of the strategic vision. For months, actually already a year and two months, the Minister has been screening with an update of the strategic vision, in conjunction with an update of the military programming law, and says that this is coming. We're really looking forward to that. We were hoping that this could have already been included in these budget debates, but we are still hungry for the time being. What will be invested in? What capacities will be invested in? I make this remark not so much in terms of budgets and capacities, but also because it has very important consequences for staff. Where should the staff be deployed? It is then of direct importance to look at this army quota. For example, we are concerned about the plans being drawn up by this government within the framework of Takuba to be deployed in the wasp nest of Mali. We are wary of this, and we do not want to become just a subdivision of the French Government, of the French army. So please be wary. We were surprised yesterday, not by policy plans announced by this government, but by the new policy plans that will be worked out by the Dutch Government. It is very ambitious to say that we are going to spend money on defence, that we are going to invest very heavily. Even if that government has not yet been definitively appointed, I would like to congratulate the Dutch Government. I would therefore call on Minister Dedonder to enter into dialogue very quickly, as soon as it is known who her colleague will be, and to enter into consultations, to see how we can work together on these very ambitious plans. This government also claims to be ambitious in the field of defence. The Dutch government will be ambitious in the field of defence. Perhaps there is a match, a further cooperation, a further strengthening of that cooperation. We are looking forward to it and hope that the Minister will take these comments to heart. We will support this military contingent. We'll approve of that. We also support the further plans in the framework of human resources policy. However, we expect a realistic framework to be outlined so that we can meet all these ambitious plans. The need is high within the Defense Department. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u31	I would like to reply on behalf of Mr Dedonder, who apologizes for not being here today. Perhaps even say that the quota will be in line with the strategic vision that is being discussed and on which the debate will continue with you. You were just talking about the numbers. I still have some specifications. As I understand it, the figures given do not correspond to the full-time equivalent. They include not only the military within the personnel envelope, but also the military who are not present in that envelope. I'm reading the numbers I got. It is actually an increase of a few hundred, rather than a reduction of a hundred men as you had noted. In 2022 there are 27,100 military units, of which 24,979 in the active framework and 121 in the reserve framework. There are 380 more outside this envelope, which should actually be counted. That's the specification I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u32	It is true that a distinction is made between inside envelope and outside envelope. When we look at the active framework, which is important to see who it is about, we see that there is a decline. This is not so much compensated by the people outside the envelope, because they were already in it last year, but by a sharp increase in the number of reservists compared to the current military quota 2021. I have here the piece of army quota 2022 in front of me, but of course I have also looked at the piece of army quota 2021. It is then noted that the number of reservists is increasing from 1.757 to 2.121. This is how the army quota is pumped up, but that is not entirely correct. If one looks at the effective framework, one sees a decline from 24.691 to 24.599. That is our concern. Once again, however, we shall be supporting this proposal to establish the military quota.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u33	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u34	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2321/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2321/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u35	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u36	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 141: Christophe Lacroix, Patrick Prévot, Sophie Thémont, Jean-Marc Delizée, Malik Ben Achour, Philippe Tison, Leslie Leoni. - 1263: Vanessa Matz, Maxime Prévot, Josy Arens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u37	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Patrick Prévot and Michael Freilich refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u38	Madam Minister, today we are discussing an important legislative piece. Indeed, the telecoms law is not renewed every year, but in this case only after ten years. I would like to thank the BIPT, who worked his ass off for that, as well as former Minister De Backer, who gave the lead, and yourself for the lead. Many of the provisions in the draft law, on which we are voting today, are transpositions of European legislation. After all, it is important that a harmonised policy is applied throughout the Union. I would like to explore with you a number of elements for which we place our own accents. The first concerns the obligation for telecom operators............................................................................................................................................................................................. That in itself is a fantastic idea, which of course we are not opposed to. However, I fear that there is not such a great need for this, because the BIPT is already monitoring this and it appears that, as far as telecom operators are concerned, that demand is already effectively met in 90% of cases. Last week I contacted an energy supplier, because unfortunately I am one of the victims of the bankruptcy of the Flemish Energy Society and therefore have to switch. Well, I tried twice and had to wait 45 minutes on the phone. No one answered and I know the music tune by heart. Something should be done about this, not by you, because you are not competent, but at least by your colleague in Consumer Affairs. In short, we need to call on all the big companies in this country to show great respect for customer friendliness. It is true that a lot of companies and organisations are not under your jurisdiction, as you did on the radio today. But as Minister of Civil Service, you still have some authority. You were talking about chatbots taking over. I hope that steps will indeed be taken in this direction. There are already a number, but it can certainly be better. Many will agree with me that, for example, the customer service of bpost, another portfolio that you manage, may also be examined. I myself experienced how difficult it is to get the right person in the garbage of customer service with questions about lost packages, if one even picks up the phone. I'll bet you 100 euros on a phone call to Proximus' customer service, you won't get anyone on the line in the first 15 minutes. It is therefore a good thing that measures are being taken today for the telecommunications sector, but it could be even better and the scheme should also be extended. If we are asking for an effort to be made in the telecommunications sector, that is good, but other sectors must also do so. I note that Mr Dierick's proposal to ban the criminal law of a telecom operator to keep a customer on a leash for a long time has not been included in the design. The BIPT can impose sanctions, which is a much better option. Another important point for me is that the customer can keep his e-mail address when switching to another operator. You will probably remember that I myself tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, which received a big applause from all the members of the committee. I remember the words of the PS, of Ecolo and of Mrs Dierick. In fact, there was unanimity and unanimity on my proposal. What's it about? Those who want to change operators will not want to lose their e-mail address. That's normal. By the way, if you switch from Proximus to Telenet or Orange today, you can also take your phone number. If that possibility does not exist, many more people will doubt a possible switch, even if it is sometimes cheaper for them with another operator. My proposal was that the customer may also retain his e-mail address, e.g. @telenet.be or @skynet.be. Unfortunately, Members of the majority voted against my proposal in the end. What was the main reason to vote against when they were first in favour? That was pure, flat party politics. We see this provision again in your draft law today. This means that the consumer has had to wait a year longer for an arrangement on which everyone agrees for the simple reason that the author of the bill happens not to be part of the majority and is a member of a group that is not allowed to participate. Of course, there are legislative proposals that are opposed from an ideological point of view; right-left contradictions are normal in politics. But here it was about something that was a broad consensus: the consumer can take his e-mail address to the next provider. The discussions showed that there was actually only one reason to vote against under the motto 'Sorry N-VA', you are not in. For me personally, it doesn't make much difference whether an arrangement about taking the e-mail address is approved now or later; I have my e-mail address with a provider and I'm not moving. The consumer, however, will suffer. Today, you have adopted the relevant provision. You have done well, I have no criticism of you, Madam Secretary. You saw an interesting proposal that the consumer is getting better and has fished it up. You did a good job, thank you very much. This is in stark contrast to the attitude of the majority colleagues, who should be ashamed of themselves. I'm glad the design is here today. We will generally vote in favour, because it takes over a lot of European rules and we can agree with most of the points that have been discussed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u39	Madam Minister, today we are voting on a draft law which should have been adopted by December 2020. We're a year late. The reason for this is the fact that the government was in current cases until October 2020. In the meantime, however, we have had a government with full authority for about 15 months. A large number of opinions have been requested which can be found in this draft law. That will be part of the reason why it took longer than anticipated. The draft law has a total of 1,500 pages, a whole bundle to go through. At first, it was intended to push this bill through in a few days, because it had obtained urgency because it was very urgent. Fortunately, however, it was decided at the last minute to give Members a little extra time for a thorough analysis of the substance, which our group appreciated. For the most part, we can agree on the substance of this draft law, but there are some concerns that I have raised in committee. One is the fact that people who are digitally less skilled or cannot afford a smartphone or computer rely on a paying service to look up a phone number. Just those people who have financial difficulties and can't afford an expensive Internet connection, have to call 1207 to get someone's phone number. I looked up the rates and informed you of them in committee. It is a fixed amount of 1.76 euros and 0.27 cents per minute, while it is free for someone who has a computer or smartphone and can look it up on the internet. That is a concern that you share, I understand in committee. In this respect, we are somewhat on the same page. Another concern concerns the possibilities provided for to combat fraud by means of text messages and so on. We naturally support the fight against fraud and fraud by SMS in its entirety, but there must be strict control over which messages are filtered and on the basis of which they are filtered. There must be transparency about this. The Data Protection Authority has issued an opinion on this matter. It states that it is necessary to establish binding standards for the screening of messages and also to submit them to the Data Protection Authority for advice. I also asked you questions on this matter in committee. However, you could not reassure me about the transparency of the messages being filtered and the filters used. That is why we abstained in the vote on this point. In view of the comments made by our group and the articles that we did not support in committee for these reasons, we doubted in the final vote on the whole question of abstention or approval. In committee we have been constructive and we have voted in favour, but today we will abstain in plenary for the reasons just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u40	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have an important draft law before us. CD&V considers it very important for our country as a member of the European Union to live up to the high European ambitions for electronic communications. We believe that our country should continue to play a leading role in technology, because our communication infrastructure helps determine the competitiveness of our companies and the economic attractiveness of our country. The corona crisis has clearly demonstrated the importance of digital communication in this century. In the context of these new developments, it is, in my view, very important that legislation should also be adapted to the new reality and technological developments that are coming towards us. The last telecom bill is almost ten years old. In ten years, of course, a great deal has changed in terms of communication and technological evolution. Our communication behaviour has changed enormously over the last ten years. Most people now have a cell phone or smartphone. That was much less the case ten years ago. Texting seems to be a thing of the past, especially when it comes to youth. We use other platforms like Whatsapp and Messenger. This also has an impact on the use of mobile data and telecom subscriptions. We'll call another way, too. We use Skype and Whatsapp to call video. Facetimen is a concept that we all know and apply regularly. There have therefore been many changes in the last ten years. New technologies create new opportunities, but unfortunately also new threats. We notice that the forms of fraud are changing and accelerating and are taking on a serious scale. We must also take that into account. We therefore welcome the fact that the new telecoms legislation provides for new opportunities for vigorous action against telecom fraud. I think we should fight this telecom fraud. There are far too many victims, every day, with new methods. It is a task of all of us to arm the people against it. This telecoms law is now taking measures to combat telecom fraud. I am also very pleased that the draft law includes a number of issues that I had proposed in a legislative proposal. With regard to anti-fraud, the draft law provides for the possibility of screening for in- and outgoing text messages on viruses, phishing or other forms of internet fraud. This is an important step forward in the fight against Internet fraud. Telecommunications operators must also assume their responsibilities. They must, of course, be able to accept that responsibility. Another element that I would have liked to have been included in this new legislation is the possibility for consumers to block incoming and outgoing calls. We had an exchange of views on this in committee. I believe that this option can stop a lot of malicious and unwanted calls or scam. This protection measure could certainly have been better protected by the very young minors, who, unfortunately, are already victims of Internet fraud and other fraud on mobile phones. So I call for that to be done. I would like to quote a few more measures that benefit consumers, better protect consumers and increase the customer-friendliness of the telecoms sector. For example, I am particularly pleased that the draft law seeks to deal with the long waiting times for telecom operators, so that they will have to wait up to 2.5 minutes, after which they will automatically be called back. That is a very nice measure, which was also included in my legislative proposal, which will remove many frustrations on the part of the consumer. If one has a problem and calls the telecom operator, one will be called back and one should not spend any more hours on the phone. Finally, another element that has been taken over is that consumers should be better informed if they change providers and have the possibility to retain the e-mail address. Now that is often still a threshold to change from telecom operator, because one does not have the ability to keep his email address. In short, we are satisfied with the draft law and will, of course, support it. The draft contains important changes. Technological developments do not stand still and we must therefore adapt our legislation accordingly. We must also stop the various forms of fraud that exist. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I would therefore like to thank you for the draft law and also for constructive cooperation. We made agreements at the beginning of the legislative period. You have given your word that you would include a number of issues in the telecoms law before us. You honored that promise, too. I thank you sincerely for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u41	Madam President, Mr Freilich, Mr Gilissen, Mrs Dierick, I would also like to thank you for your constructive cooperation in committee, where we have come up with a draft that has improved. The design has been working on for a very long time. Mr Freilich, you are right. I didn't magicalize it out of my hat. A lot of people have been working on it. However, we have been delayed for all the reasons we know. However, we have put it on the agenda of day 1 and we have really worked on it. We had to wait for advice. That's how it works. All the way to the end, I did indeed appeal to the fact that we were lagging behind in trying to speed things up. However, Mr Gilissen, I admit that the fact that we have done some thorough work has made the draft much better thanks to the comments and the many work of the Legal and Technical Services of the committee, but also thanks to the comments made during the debates. I would like to comment on the content of this report. Firstly, Mr Freilich, you referred to the 2.5 minutes which Mrs Dierick also mentioned. That is really based on the reality of the complaints that came to the Ombudsman. We also discussed it in committee. We do not have any extended appalling detail from the pure private consumer to also business users. That's an added value. Your comment, however, is justified. There are still organisations whose helpdesks are difficult to reach. Perhaps we can use this example to make adjustments to the public authorities and other companies. You spoke of bpost. I'll think carefully if I'll take your bet. In any case, you inspired me to look at things at bpost as well. As far as criminal law is concerned, the BIPT Statute Act makes it possible for it to impose sanctions. Mr Freilich, you mentioned the taking of the e-mail address, a subject that has been discussed on a number of occasions. As Mrs Dierick has just pointed out, this was a work in progress, so we took along a lot of good ideas. We have requested statistics for this and, in retrospect, it might have been a little premature to vote on this in November 2020. Anyway, the point was taken up, we have committed ourselves in this respect, and I give you the credit you deserve. You say you will support the draft because it concerns the transposition of European legislation. I would like to add that, for a number of measures, Europe has inspired our country to include them in its code and now to ask all Member States to transpose them. On the telecoms front, we are still a forerunner, and I would like to keep it that way with you. Mr Gilissen, you indicated that the implementation of the new law has lasted another year. I have already said that we must take a great deal of necessary procedural steps and wait for advice. I have also stressed that I believe that the end result has become very solid and very good, thanks to cooperation. You expressed your concern in committee about who is digitally less skilled. Know that we will be absolutely committed to closing the digital divide, even in other ways than with this draft law. We will focus on greater internet access, including in public buildings. I am thinking of the post offices, where we will, for example, roll out the digihubs. It should be possible for digitally less skilled people to obtain such services at no extra cost. Then they may indeed have to move to a place where there is free internet available. We are also working on social rates, which should lead to lower costs. That work is still on the shelf. In the discussion on how to deal with fraud via SMS, in connection with the GBA's opinion on filtering, I have already indicated that it is not operationally possible to request permission from the sender and the recipient, before a text message can be screened and possibly stopped. But with this text we ask the operators for transparency. How will they do this, what messages will be screened against which criteria and how the fight against fraud will be implemented operationally, will be included with the GBA and the BIPT. In the annual report of the BIPT you will be able to get a report there. This is also proposed to Parliament. Hopefully this will also result in sufficient transparency for Parliament. With that addition, I hope that your abstention can still be a yes vote. Mrs Dierick, you spoke about telecom fraud. The draft law follows the evolution of today's communication channels, including WhatsApp and Signal. The digital players in the communication were previously almost unregulated, telecom operators very clearly did. We will develop synergies in regulation, including for the digital operators. They'll have to sign up for the BIPT. That's also work in development. We won't even them right away. After all, cybercriminals also use WhatsApp and not just text messages. This type of fraud must also be combated, as must the fraud by e-mail and SMS. We have indeed not taken up the proposal to block calls. In consultation with the sector and the BIPT it has been stated that this would be technically very difficult or not feasible and would place a huge burden on operators. There are already other possibilities to block songs, for example on the smartphone itself, by the user. We have not included other proposals in the legislative text either. We have indeed included your other proposals in the context of the greater work that we hope to achieve together today, such as the two-and-a-half-minute obligation and the retention of the e-mail address.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u42	Madam Minister, I would like to hear you say that we ourselves are sometimes a forerunner and that we are making legislation here that will subsequently be adopted by Europe. I agree with that, because Belgium can play a leading role. If necessary, I would ask you to pass that message on to your fellow Minister Van Peteghem. We have talked a lot about cybercrime, for example, phishing. I have tabled a bill that provides for verification between the IBAN account number and the name of the account holder, whereby the consumer receives a warning via the bank if there is no match. With a written question, I checked with the Minister. Consumer organisations are enthusiastic and the Dutch say that they can no longer do without such a system. Nevertheless, your fellow Minister Van Peteghem says that we should wait until Europe makes a proposal in this way, so that we can see if we can then accept it. I don't think that's the right way. You are setting an example here. I ask you whether it is possible to convince your colleague of this. If there are good proposals to tackle fraud, we must take the lead here, not wait five or ten years, while thousands of people can be swindled through the Internet, smishing or other ways.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u43	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u44	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2256/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2256/11) The title has been amended by the committee to "draft law transposing the European Electronic Communications Code and amending various provisions in the field of electronic communications". The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law transposing the European Code of Electronic Communications and amending various provisions on electronic communications." the bill has 263 articles. The draft law has 263 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u45	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u46	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Gitta Vanpeborgh, Patrick Prévot, Daniel Bacquelaine, Laurence H annoyance, Nathalie Muylle, Maggie De Block, Barbara Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u47	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u48	I report on the discussion of the bill concerning the doctors-specialists in training and the doctors in training in the Health Committee on 14 December 2021. Mr Van Peborgh van Vooruit stated that this proposal has three objectives. Firstly, in the context of an update, the Dutch name of the National Joint Committee on Medicine-Hospitals is changed to National Joint Committee on Doctors-Hospitals and the word "healers" is systematically replaced by the word "doctors." Secondly, doctors-specialists and university hospitals are given a specific representation in the National Joint Committee on Doctors-Hospitals. Thirdly, the period of clinical activity carried out by doctors in training to cope with the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic is extended to include part of the internship. The colleague hoped to be able to count on the support of his colleagues. In the general discussion, Mr Gijbels of the N-VA stated that the problem of the status of the ASOs is certainly not new. She found it cynical that it took a corona crisis to get this problem on the agenda. She was okay with the content of the proposal, but it's, as it were, just a detail of what should happen. It's an agreement, but there's still a lot of problems. Mrs Gijbels stressed the importance of an independent hotline, where the assistants can deal with problems and complaints, especially as long as the employer is also the teacher. Mrs Gijbels said that there was still much to be done on the question of retirement. She also wondered whether it had been budgeted and when it would finally be done. Mr Hennuy of Ecolo-Groen asked what the Minister would do with the negative noises in the workplace. Some hospitals do not comply with the legislation on working time. Mr Prévot of PS, like the previous colleague, wondered what the state of play was with regard to consultation with hospitals. Mrs Sneppe van Vlaams-Belang felt that there was still a lot to be done about the statute of the ASOs, but found the agreement concluded after hard negotiations this summer as well as this proposal moving in the right direction. She referred once again to the resolution which her party put to the vote before the summer. Mrs Sneppe said it was a pity that it was not supported in the Chamber. Her party is not resentful and will therefore support this proposal. However, Mrs Sneppe still had a few small questions. Does the title cover the load? Mrs Sneppe felt that the title was too broad for the content. What happens after September 2022? She wanted to know whether the Minister would then come again for a further extension or whether this would be settled by royal decree. Mr Bacquelaine of the MR said he would support this proposal. He wanted to stress the importance of the ASOs once again. He also stressed the importance of good training in order to be able to exercise the profession properly. He also wanted to hear an update on the contacts with the hospitals and the internships. Mr Muylle of CD&V shared the concerns of her colleagues, but stressed the importance of the social agreement reached. The implementation of this agreement is not an easy task. Especially with regard to controls at the workplace, her signals were that not much has changed. That is why it wanted to see a state of implementation of the social agreement. She stressed the need for further action on unemployment and pensions. Mr Merckx had questions about the four seats on the joint committee. Who do they belong to? Are there two for the ASOs and two for the university hospitals? Overall, she considered the proposal to be a good thing, but it is still largely insufficient for her party. For example, it stressed the importance of a third party that can act independently in the event of problems. What about retirement and such? Mrs Merckx wondered how to get rid of performance medicine. When will this be negotiated and how? She noted that since the agreement the ASOs were no longer allowed to work overtime, but that they now have to do the same work in less hours. According to her, that's a big source of stress. Colleague De Block took it for granted that the assimilation of the clinical internship will be extended. She felt it was important that the ASOs should now also be represented on the Joint Committee on Doctors-Hospitals. She referred to a passage in the explanatory memorandum stating that it is very important for the assistants to be trained for the specialization for which they have chosen. She wondered how that would be controlled. She also asked about the slope that is being followed in connection with pension building. Mrs Fonck noted that this was a government text that did not pass the Council of State. She asked what is meant by representative professional organisations. Which one exactly is it for university hospitals? She regretted that some of the provisions were not included in the text. What about working time, social status, unemployment and the quality of training? These are still pain points. She also pointed out that the change concerning the internship might raise questions for certain specializations. She was wondering if their assistantship shouldn't be extended. Especially for internal medicine, that can be a problem. What about the recognition committee? Is the Royal Decree of 23 April 2004 respected? What about that? So much for Mrs. Fonck's questions. In the replies, Mrs Vanpeborgh said that she understood the concerns of colleagues. She acknowledged that the negative noises on the ground are also her concerns, but the most important thing is that the ASOs and university hospitals will now have an official seat at the negotiating table. In response to Mrs Merckx's question, she noted that it was not two seats but four seats each time. Mrs Vanpeborgh agreed with Mrs Sneppe on the comprehensive title. For Mrs Fonck's comments, she referred to the Minister. The Minister acknowledged that there were problems on the ground. He wanted to map that. It is up to the Minister to ensure that the text is applied on the ground. He asked Mrs Gijbels not to minimize such an agreement, but the Minister also admitted that not everything was settled. The challenges include pension building, unemployment, parental leave and much more, but are being addressed. However, the budget does not yet provide for this. Following the problems identified in the field and the questions raised by the various colleagues, the Minister read the list of the problems listed. The hospitals responded that they have the firm will to implement the agreement correctly, but they asked for understanding for the short period of time. The doctors asked about the tool and a solution for the guards, the minister said. With regard to working time, the Minister referred to the Labour Inspectorate, which is responsible for ensuring that the laws are respected. Mrs Fonck asked a question about the representative professions. The Minister replied that there should be an appointment decision, which clearly defines what is meant by representativeness. Extending the assimilation of traineeships is a crisis measure and should not affect the quality of training. The problem of too little rotation does not arise in the large institutions, and the smaller institutions must pay particular attention to this, the Minister said. It's the internships that have to see to that. The learning objectives set and the recognition criteria must be met. In the reply, Mrs Gijbels said that she came to the same diagnosis as the Minister on the culture shift that is needed. However, she stressed that this could only be done through thorough controls. She also wanted to stress the importance of the independent hotline and the separation between teacher and employer. Mr Merckx pointed out that, despite the historic agreement, there is a long list of problems. This corresponds to the noises on the workplace, namely that one has to do the same work in less time. That creates a huge workload. An independent body is also a must for my colleague Merckx. Mr Fonck asked for further clarification on Article 5. She has not yet received an answer to the question as to which organizations the university hospitals will represent. Minister Vandenbroucke replied that representativeness will have to be demonstrated. Colleague Fonck said she did not receive an answer to the question of who would represent university hospitals. As far as recognition is concerned, too, she was left with questions. A number of specializations have less to do because of the corona crisis and then the internship manager is responsible, but what about the recognition committee? How will the quality of training be guaranteed? The Minister took Mrs Fonck's questions and added that a debate on the subject might need to be organised. Mrs. Fonck disagreed. She only noted that this bill, which has become a legislative proposal, does not provide a correct and complete legal analysis. The bill was adopted unanimously in committee on 14 December 2021 after an hour and a half debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u49	Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Sneppe for playing the film all over again. I would like to begin by drawing attention to the particular path that has been taken in this legislative proposal. It was actually an amendment tabled by the majority on a so-called urgent bill of well-known 1,850 pages of various provisions. The urgency of the draft law is seriously contested, at least outside the majority but perhaps also within the majority. In our view, the vast majority of the articles are not at all as urgent as it is claimed, according to some of the representatives of certain professions. It seems, however, that the majority is not very convinced of the urgency of the matter, nor is it so sure that it could continue to defend the urgency of the matter. After all, the majority decided that it would probably be better to withdraw the amendments and submit them separately as an urgent legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would like to say that this is indeed the way to do that. Select what is really urgent rather than wanting to link a proposal to a so-called urgent draft law several provisions of 1,850 pages, which the government wanted to make an attempt to avoid thorough consultation with the sector and good parliamentary work, including the majority. Colleagues of the majority, it has now been shown that, when something is really important, partners can easily be found for it. After all, the proposal before us today was approved by the whole committee. We shall therefore vote in favour of the legislative proposal. It regulates a few rather minor points, which are nevertheless important for the doctors-specialists in training and the doctors in training. I have also said in committee that I find it agitated that a corona crisis was needed to bring this problem, which has been on the agenda for decades, to the top of the agenda. I already asked questions about that before the corona crisis. For decades there have been problems with doctors in training and especially with doctors-specialists in training who have been working for far too long days, who have no or hardly any social protection. It is very important not only for the well-being of the specialists in training but also for the safety of the patients that this should finally be reduced. It has become part of the culture at many internships to deal in a certain way with trainees and doctors in training. It is important that we take the lead there so that we can at last bring about a change of attitude. This bill aims to achieve a representation in a committee where doctors and hospitals are represented, but also a certain flexibility in the internship plan for the specialists in training who have been deployed in the covid crisis. We can only agree to that, but above all we want to make an appeal to go beyond that. There is now a renewed common contract of employment, but as long as it is not controlled, which has not been done so far, things may not change very much. These are certainly the signals we are getting from the field. In many internships, everything has actually remained the same. Controls will be needed to enforce that cultural change that is really needed. Another problem is that there is still no separation between teacher and employer. This puts people in training in a very delicate situation, with power relations that do not invite them to raise certain issues. The lack of an independent hotline is also a crucial issue that really needs to be addressed. People should be able to report cases that go wrong in a safe way. We want to continue to emphasise these points. There is also work on the social status, including in terms of protection of unemployment or pension structure. I have asked Minister Vandenbroucke where we can find these provisions in the budget, but apparently no work has yet been done on them. We will certainly continue to follow that up in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u50	Madam President, I believe that the report was sufficiently comprehensive and does not make any further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u51	Madam President, for the past year, we have not only been struck by the covid crisis but also by the mobilization of the care workers of rare intensity. This struggle has been joined by the struggle of young training assistants. They decided to break the silence last year and took action; their testimonies were cold in our backs. I was a young doctor about 20 years ago and I remember, when I was doing my internships, that young assistants were sometimes at the end, crying, at night, in the emergency room, because they lived in the hospital and were heavily exploited. The finding was quite alarming. After 20 years, nothing has changed. Things have even gotten worse. A young assistant testified: "There are days when I am so tired that I fall asleep between two patients". Sabine, a medical candidate specializing in pediatrics at a large Brussels hospital: "I can no longer tell the difference between what I actually told the patient and what I dreamed of. At night, I am consumed by guilt and fear of having made a medical mistake. It keeps me from sleeping, so I'm even more exhausted the next day. It's a vicious circle. And it's getting worse and worse. I'm afraid for my patients, for me and for my colleagues. How do you want us to learn our profession in these conditions?" In May, these young assistants mobilized both in the North and in the South to ask for better working conditions, not only for them, but also for the well-being of patients. It is not uncommon to see them working 72 hours, or even up to 92 hours a week. They are not entitled to unemployment benefits, do not contribute for their pension, and cannot rely on mutual benefit or obtain parental leave like other workers. They are not paid much for their guards. Their salary and the number of days of leave to which they are entitled are often uncertain. And even under these conditions, their contract can still give rise to abuses, among other things because of the famous opting out system. Young doctors also expressed that they were not adequately supervised and trained. Hospitals faced a structural shortage of staff and, for them, medical specialist candidates were a cheap labour force. So they are often delivered to themselves. They have neither the time nor the opportunity to have quality contacts with the responsible specialists who train them. For example, it is often impossible to attend the courses given to them, nor to find the time to really study to improve their knowledge. Would you fly a pilot who just worked 80 hours and spent a couple of sleepless nights? With this comparison, the young doctors-specialists denounced their situation. In such a context and in uneducated and overtired hands, the patient is clearly at risk. This applies not only to the patient, but also to the mental health of our future doctors. A survey shows that a fourth of them believe that their work rhythm affects their use of addictive products such as alcohol, tobacco, weed, cocaine, psychotropic drugs, painkillers or other products. For Belgium, there are no figures of suicide among doctors, for example. That's taboo. In France, however, a survey which states that young doctors suffer from anxiety disorders, 28% of depressive symptoms, 24% of suicidal thoughts and 3.8 % even attempted suicide. In our opinion, the situation is the symptom of a deeper ailment. On the one hand, because of years of savings, hospitals suffer from a lack of resources. So there is less and less room to really take care of the people. In order to keep our heads above water, hospitals are going to make a blow to the performance of getting money into the drawer. Many technical studies and private rooms stimulate a situation where private insurance companies and manufacturers of medical products make maximum profit, but so our health itself becomes merchandise. Hospitals suffer from a system of payment per performance. Because the funding of hospitals has become structurally inadequate, they are forced to provide as many services as possible that bring money to the wall. In this context, we think it would be wiser to think about a different way of financing hospitals. Both for the patient and for social security, the bill becomes priceless. The quality of care also suffers from this. Taking the time to talk to the patients or the colleagues is not possible. Not the patient and the care work are central, but the performance and turnover figures. That weighs a lot. For example, we see a wave of burn-outs in the care providers, because this is not of course a single problem for young doctors-specialists. However, man is by nature a social being who likes to take care of others. The primary motivation of many doctors is deeply human, they strive to work with a team to give patients the best possible care. People's health is close to their hearts, and the desire for profit that prevails in our health care is the death penalty for their motivation. So caregivers alienate their values and suffer from them. Doctors in training are no exception and need human contact with patients and colleagues with more experience. They need to be able to study the scientific basis of their profession in order to make the best decisions for patients. Taking care of each other takes time and that time must be given to the young doctors. In addition, their working conditions also need to be improved, they need time to realize their deepest motivation, especially the care for others. However, this system of performance ensures that our young doctors have to work in really hellish conditions today. That is also why nurses, health professionals and all other health professions are coming out today, saying that it is no longer possible. There is too high working pressure and too high flexibility, which means there is a shortage of good manpower in our hospitals. In concrete terms, what is on the table today? There will be official representation in the National Joint Commission of Hospital Physicians, Assistant Physicians and recognition of internships. But, as has been pointed out, the work is far from over in this bill, For example, the fact that new employment contracts had been concluded since 1 October posed new problems for young field assistants. Since there have been checks, among other things, on overtime, there is considerable pressure today on young assistants not to take on overtime. As a result, they have to ensure the same workload in less hours. For us, it is clear that it is time to work even further to improve their status. Why do medical assistants in specialist training not have a 38-hour employment contract? Why, today, is their specialization, which still lasts five, six, or sometimes more years, not taken into account in the calculation of their pension and social security in a complete way? For us, it is also essential that there be a decoupling between the trainer and the employer. A third-party institute should be established that would be the employer and trainer of medical assistants in training. 20 years ago, this really improved working conditions for young generalists, at the level of hours, at the level of guards, but also at the level of the quality of training. In any case, with the PTB, we support young doctors, as well as the rest of the health care staff, in their struggle for more human health care. That's what this is about!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u52	Madam President, my speech will be less ideological than that of Mrs Merckx, but I have listened very carefully. It really is an important period in the lives of young people, women and men who start medical studies, a minimum of six years of training, often with three to six years of specialization. This specialization is a combination of study, scientific research and internship at the workplace, which is called a training side by side. In this way, the path to the profession of doctor-specialist can count for a total of nine to twelve years, which requires a certain perseverance and a lot of motivation. In recent years, hard work has been done to provide better conditions for these students. I heard what the situation looked like 20 years ago, but it was no better about forty years ago, Mrs Merckx, I can testify to that. In many discussions with the field, in the previous legislature on specialist placements, we drew up a vision in the Green Paper. This had a dual aim: to ensure and improve certain social aspects of the status of doctors-specialists in training, as well as to improve the quality framework of traineeships, on which there are many complaints. With the Ministerial Decision of 6 October 2017, we realised some social aspects, namely a reduction in the number of places outside the approved internship service, the possibility to temporarily interrupt the internship and the possibility to carry out the internship in a part-time work schedule. For the second aspect, the quality framework of the placement, it is a central and transparent quality control at the placements, a system in which the doctor-specialist in training himself can allocate part of the remuneration so that he can assess the quality of the placement, and a better definition of the pedagogical part of the placement in the system. We want to achieve a better distinction between employer versus internship. A number of principles of this quality evaluation were implemented by the Royal Decree of 11 June 2018 setting out the amount and payment modalities of the fee for internship masters in the medicine of candidate specialists. The collective agreement of 19 May 2021 in the National Joint Committee on Doctors-Sickness Funds was ratified by Minister Vandenbroucke in the Royal Decree of 19 July 2021, which builds on this basis. A number of important additional elements are included in this collective agreement: improved control and regulation of working time, improved reimbursement of benefits, including reimbursement of expenses, e.g. for telephony and telematics, the strengthening of the code of well-being at work, e.g. the link with the training contract. With these milestones, we are taking a further step in the process of turning the often difficult working conditions and the workload on the trainees, which is enormous, into a situation that takes better account of general well-being. Article 10 of the Code of Medical Deontology provides that the physician must also have attention and care for his own health and that the doctor must also strive for a balance between professional activities and private life. That's what we all have to do, but it's a difficult exercise. How can a doctor do that in an environment where performing an inhuman number of hours is the only rule? It is also necessary that the physician-specialist can work in training within a well-circumscribed framework and, within these limits of his own knowledge and training, can also ensure better care for his patients. Indeed, a high quality of the internship also ensures better and quality care for the patient. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the important achievements, there are still gaps. That was also pointed out. That is what Mrs Sneppe said in her good report. There is still a need for control over working hours, a separation between the position of employer and trainee, the regulation of social rights such as the counting of pension years and the unemployment scheme, the temporary unemployment by covid has now also been added and the provision of an independent complaint body. In view of these additional aspects, I, together with colleagues Muylle and Bacquelaine, have tabled a legislative proposal to the Committee on Social Affairs. Indeed, the covid crisis has called for flexibility on several occasions over the last two years. This is also the case with regard to the position of doctors-specialists in training. The coronavirus had a major impact on the internship course. Suddenly, these doctors were also involved in the treatment of the influx of patients with covid. They also gave the best of themselves there. All their knowledge was used to guard the odds of every patient who came to the hospital. I believe that they deserve our thanks, but also that we continue to work on improving their social status. I also said in committee that there should be a balance between the number of covid services provided and the quality of training. One cannot allow a nose-eel-ear specialist to learn certain skills because it is in a covid department. Then the question is indeed: should the internship be longer? I think we should do everything we can to get out of it in a different way. After all, it has been a very long training period. Then there is the so-called assimilation of unforeseen internship periods, which is being extended. That is a measure that we have taken fairly early. It is now extended until 30 September 2022. I think this is important, but I hope it is the last time, for several reasons. With regard to the representation of doctors-specialists in training in the National Joint Committee on Doctors-Hospitals, organisations such as VASO and CIMACS have for many years shown themselves to be constructive partners in the development and development of a vision of the role of doctors-specialists in training in our healthcare system. In addition, these organisations are important partners in capturing signals in the field related to the culture of work, or the lack of a culture of work, and the practical training practice that takes place in the workplace of the internship. Motivated trainees working in a quality training environment ensure the best care for their patients. In order to ensure that the status of the specialist doctor in training evolves towards a statute tailored to the needs of the trainees, with a view to their private life and social contacts, our group can fully agree with the proposal to include these ASOs in the Joint Committee. Finally, I noted in committee that there was considerable support for various initiatives. The Committee on Health adopted the current proposal on formal representation of doctors in training and the assimilation of internships with unanimity, which is not often the case in this hemisphere. It's a nice signal to the trainees, who have often worked day and night in our hospitals to take care of the patients. I hope that today we in the Chamber will be able to express this message of thanks and appreciation. I would like to thank Mrs Sneppe for the report and the services for help.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by saying that this text does not, of course, solve all the problems facing medical assistants for specialists (MACCS). The consultation, which has been carried out for several months by the Minister and which has led to the conclusion of an important agreement between MACS and hospitals, will have to continue, as the challenges remain numerous. This will certainly have to be addressed in terms of access to unemployment, pensions and the quality of training. The Minister, in committee in particular, undertook to do so. The work will continue and the Socialist Group will pay close attention to it. Today, this text has the merit of meeting a long-standing expectation of allowing for the representation of medical specialists in training and university hospitals in the National Joint Medical-Hospital Commission. That is essential if we are to carry out the many reforms that are to come. On the other hand, it is important not to penalize some of these trained doctors who have worked and are still working to cope with the covid in hospitals. Thus, we again allow the extension of the period during which the clinical activity carried out by doctors in training to deal with the consequences of the epidemic can be assimilated to part of the internship, as was the case in 2021. These were important measures that needed to be voted on quickly. Today, my group and I are pleased to see that this text was adopted unanimously in committee on Tuesday. This is a very favourable outcome to the plenary meeting earlier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u54	Madam President, allow me to begin by expressing my sincere appreciation and thanks for the oral reporting and for the services which, I presume, have come to the aid of. Especially the message of not being vindictive has certainly lingered. I therefore sincerely thank the reporter. Secondly, I would also like to thank the members of the committee for the debate on the legislative proposal, which was very good. Good questions have been asked. The debate also made it clear that we share a number of concerns which we will continue to address together. We will also press for this to be done. I would also like to say that it was very nice to note that the proposal, at least in committee, was adopted unanimously. That really is a heart under the belt of all ASOs. I can still hear Mrs De Block mention it. That was also the case 40 years ago. I also have friends who went to college and told me those things. Daughters and sons of those friends are doing these studies now, and they're telling me the same story. So it's unbelievable that things have lasted so long. It is good that a step forward is now being taken. Mrs Gijbels, it is a pity that it is now being said that this should have happened already. However, we are all sitting around the table here. Some of you have also been part of the government. Forty years ago it could and should have happened. However, we are taking a step forward. This is important and a heartfelt commitment from all medical specialists in training who will finally get a say in the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals, can be heard in that committee and watch closely at the negotiating table what happens to the collective training agreement, which is historic. Is it being properly applied and where are the bottlenecks? By the way, they have already done so with their questioning. From this strengthened position, they can continue to work on a better statute for the ASOs, i.e. doctors-specialists in training. It is equally important that all doctors in training receive effective assurance that the impact of the clinical activities they are now required to perform as a result of the corona crisis will be taken into account. I would now like to comment on a number of statements made by colleagues. Mrs Gijbels, you again referred to the various provisions of the bill. I'm sorry about that. That was not discussed in committee the day before yesterday. We have indeed taken a number of amendments, Nos 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19 and 20, out of that bill and made a legislative proposal. We had to do this because the debate on this draft law is so difficult. It's unfortunate. You refer to the 1,900 pages, not 1,800. You have a point, but you have to be so honest about what this is about. 1,400 pages deal with formal issues, such as regulatory impact of legislation, coordinating legislation. The content is much more limited than those 1,900 pages. Moreover, this bill was also available since 19 November, 10 days before the first discussion started, in two committees, not only in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, but also in the Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions. The debate has not been abbreviated at any time. It also concerns many cases which have been pending for a long time because of the current government. That is why we regret that this has always been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u55	Madam President, I am responding because we are directly addressed by Mr Vanpeborgh. I think that this is a serene debate on which there is unanimity, so we should not go into the contradiction as far as the subject itself is concerned. Perhaps it would have been better, Mr Vanpeborgh, not to mention that part. After all, I will tell you nothing new when I say that your colleagues from the majority actually agree in the corridors that what happened to the bill you are talking about is du jamais vu. This has really fallen on a cold stone within your own majority. So please do not make any more effort than is necessary to defend the indefenable. But that is what I am saying about the point about the draft law. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on what is before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u56	Mr De Roover, Parliament must function here in this Chamber and not in the corridors. I am sorry, but I also have to respond to the fact that you are bringing up various provisions about the bill, because the present bill is actually a very good thing. I come to a second point. Mrs Gijbels, you spoke about the need for controls. A lot of questions were asked by colleagues in committee and a lot of answers were formulated. You too, Mrs Merckx, ask for the collective training agreement to be applied effectively and for an even better statute to be further developed. We agree on that. In this respect, I believe that steps have been taken in the right direction, which has also been mentioned in that committee. For example, I would like to refer to the registration tool that needs to be provided. In fact, hospitals have been obliged for ten years to take the time record to heart, but it doesn't happen. They have indicated that they need a tool and in committee it has been confirmed that that tool is coming. Let us hope that in the long term it will become superfluous and that there will simply be respect for working time. There has already been a survey on the quality of the internships at the ASOs. In committee, it was said that this question was closed on 15 December, yesterday at midnight. When we discussed this in committee, 1,000 medical specialists in training had already completed the survey. That's important. It is right that attention should be paid to this. In the committee it was said that there will also be a survey of the internships and coordinating internships. We also talked there about the labour inspectorate. It was invited by the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals. It has said very clearly what can and what cannot be done, and it has taken on board a clear commitment to act on the ground. In that respect, we have all heard the same sounds that it is not quite okay yet and needs to be improved, but instruments are being used to make it better. The most important instrument, once again, is that the doctors-specialists in training will finally have a seat and a voice in the National Joint Commission. I have every confidence that those people will also be there on the table and make things clear, what they have already done with their questioning. We need to be there to help them improve their status and the correct application of the collective training agreement. Mrs De Block, like others, you were right to talk about the gaps, social protection. The Minister replied in committee. There is indeed a proposal from you on the Committee on Social Affairs, there have already been opinions, there are still some to come. You have said that they will be studied on the substance. This will be a very important basis for improving social protection. There are also other challenges, such as safeguarding the quality of training. The Minister has taken this up. Mrs Fonck, it may not have been clear in the oral report, but the Minister did address the issue of representative organisations. There must be a decision on appointment, both for the representative organisations of the doctors-specialists in training and for university hospitals. For university hospitals it would be a logical choice that it concerns the Board of University Hospitals of Belgium, the RUZB or CHAB. For the ASOs, it should be about organisations that have a legal structure and that represent these ASOs, from the different universities. Mrs De Block referred there to VASO on the Flemish side, as was said yesterday. On the French-speaking side there are two organisations, DeMeFF and CIMACS. For CIMACS it is necessary to consider whether this organisation is still active. At least that question was answered. Mrs Fonck, you also asked some questions about the recognition committee and its importance. The Minister promised to take that question with him. The Communities, through those accreditation committees, should interpret the standards of recognition and apply them to individual cases. The purpose of this legislation is to have an instrument from which that doctor in training can exercise a right with that recognition committee. This was also included in the report to the King by the original royal decree, No. 29. I quote: 'It goes without saying that the competent authorities shall assess the assimilation referred to in this Decision in accordance with the procedure laid down by them. The Communities are responsible for the follow-up and evaluation of the training plan and the application of the recognition criteria in order to grant recognition. The assessment (which activities, the number of months full-time or pro rata temporal, part-time internship, the number of benefits) will be the responsibility of the competent authorities. If they find that the final competences are not achieved, they may propose an extension of the traineeship. It is clear that this will have to be justified when proposing an extension of the traineeship, taking into account, inter alia, the possibility of assimilation as defined above. The principles contained in this decision were also discussed with the federated entities. Care must always be taken to ensure that final competences as defined in the specific decisions on recognition conditions are achieved. The recognition gives qualitative guarantees to patients, so this cannot be affected." The Länder raised the question of extending the possibility of assimilation at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. On 20 October 2021, the IMC established the priorities for extending several emergency measures. The subject of this bill was referred to there as a priority 1, thus the highest priority. Since the Communities have asked the question and in view of the fact that the Communities are responsible for the accreditation committees, we can assume that sufficient consultation has taken place, the answer is that. I'd like to close with that. The text was adopted unanimously in committee and I also hope for a unanimous yes vote later. That will really be a heartbeat of all the doctors in training and doctors-specialists in training.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u57	Mrs Vanpeborg, you have mentioned my name many times. That's nice of you, but I'd still like to clarify some things. Of course, there is no problem – on the contrary – of having representativeness in the National Joint Medical Hospital Commission, not only for the representatives of the MACCS, but also for the representatives of the university hospitals. Yes, I asked for explanations in committee, since obviously it was necessary to rest simple questions several times in order to obtain simple answers, namely that yes, the Conference of Academic Hospitals of Belgium (CHAB) and the Raad van Universitaire Ziekenhuizen van België (RUZB) are the representative organisations of university hospitals, and that it is necessary to clarify things so that representatives of MACCS are fully and properly involved. I hear here, which was not said in committee, that CIMACS would no longer be active. I'm telling you, CIMACS is active. I look at the Francophone colleagues of the majority, and I invite them to be a little bit attentive to what we can tell, to the fact that this really fits into the truth on the ground and that we do not begin to invent that some would no longer be representative of the specialist assistants. While this representativeness is a positive element, the real central and major issues remain full and complete. I am thinking here of the effective observance of working time, the effective application of the part relating to the status which is supposed to be already implemented, the ongoing discussions on the aspects of pensions and unemployment as well as parental leave, the guarantee of the quality of the training regardless of the location of the traineeships, the guarantee of the quality of the traineeship plans, including the current traineeship plans in the covid context. Indeed, once they have completed their six-year specialization for specialist doctors and three-year specialization for general practitioners, it will still be necessary for them, in the context of their particular specialization, including with regard to particular professional qualifications, to have been able to have a quality internship guaranteeing the effectiveness of their internship plan. You also referred to the fact that this bill with various provisions on health care is being caricatured, with those 1,800 pages that are not, and a bill that would contain only anecdotal things. Since we are talking about the MACCS, allow me to mention for a moment the trainees who are doing a master's degree, who are in the oven and mill to come to strengthen the hospitals or general practitioners who are on the front line, those famous trainees for whom you have decided, through this bill containing various provisions – I am speaking to you in particular, Mrs. Hmento – to put a federal lock in order to allow INAMI not to grant an INAMI number to these soon to graduate doctors and dentists, simply because the government of the French Community has not been able to overcome its disagreements in order to avoid a harmful legal basis for trainees in medicine and dentistry. Today, with this bill, a legal basis is given to this lock. To end up with policies that, to go beyond their disagreement, settle their accounts in a bill on the backs of future graduate physicians and dentists, I find it particularly indecent and unacceptable. This bill containing various provisions, Mrs. Vanpeborgh, does not contain anecdotal things. It is an example among others that we are trying to get swallowed at once, quickly done well, in extreme urgency, while this issue has been dragging on for months via a behind-the-door journey of the government and its partners. I will continue to do everything I can to avoid voting, quickly doing well, things that are inhumane and unacceptable while you are giving INAMI numbers to all doctors and dentists who have graduated from other Member States of the European Union, without even the slightest surprise and without finding anything to say about this upside down discrimination for our doctors and dentists who graduated in Belgium. Yes, this is a very specific example of what you want us to vote for, and that you have already voted on the article, particularly in the case of PS, Ecolo and MR, of which I intended, two days ago, the ministers representing the French Community to choke on something that the federal government would do. Ladies and gentlemen, block this point, which you also deplore in your own party! We may then be able to find some decency when we talk about our young trainees who are in the oven and mill and who, by your fault, end up with this famous sword of Damocles. I'm telling you frankly, it's indecent. Madam President, I see that some colleagues wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u58	Mrs. Fonck, I'd like to respond because my name is mentioned. I want this to be recorded as well. I didn't caricature the bill. Let's get that straight. We have talked about the draft legislation on various provisions. I also think that all the elements in it are important. Those aren't anecdotal elements. There are two ways to view the world. One can see what has not yet happened, but we all agreed in committee that we still have steps to take and that we have to take them together. That's good. It is also important that those things that have happened should be appointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I would like you, all of you in the majority, to value these assistants and interns by reminding us of how much they are giving all their strength and courage in the covid crisis today, I invite you to re-read section 87 of your bill containing various provisions. Frankly, delete it! And remove it as long as it is still time, because I can assure you that, if it passed, it would be the revolution in hospitals, a revolution led by the "little ones". They work days, nights and whole weekends to compensate for shortcomings resulting from policy decisions in health care and also to be at the bedside of patients by helping those who are overwhelmed in hospitals and outside. That is why I urge you to go back to the article that you dared to vote on first reading. We will, of course, come back on Monday, but I cannot hear you ovating doctors, assistants and trainees, even though you are voting in catmini for such indecent articles to solve political conflicts on their backs. I repeat: this is inhuman and unacceptable! I wanted to stress this aspect in particular, because I am tired of the double speeches - and they too! As a result, stop pretending to support them while, in actions, you take intolerable decisions behind their backs. I'll finish that, Madam President. Today, in view of their difficult and difficult journey, I intend to continue to prevent the decisions taken by this government from further aggravating their situation. If I remain there now, you will have understood that, as early as Monday, I will get back to it, since your text will be placed on the agenda of the Committee on Public Health again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u60	Madam President, first of all, I must regret the absence of the Minister. I do not know why, but I think that this debate would have come out of its presence because I note inconsistencies and double speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u61	Mrs Rohonyi, in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, I asked Mrs Sneppe to produce an oral report today and therefore to deal with the text today and not next week, because next week's agenda is already full. The fact that the Minister is not here now is something I should like you to note, because an appointment had already been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u62	Thank you. I wasn't trying to blame anyone for this. I would just like to regret the fact that this debate is not really one, since the minister is not here. Nevertheless, as I said, this debate is important. Indeed, this health crisis combined with the lack of valorisation of the health care professions really ended up putting the health care staff on their knees, both clean and figurative. Among these people, there are the medical specialists in training who are therefore called MACS and who have been fighting rightly for years for an improvement in their deplorable working conditions, resulting from their sui generis status. This status implies that they are not wage earners and that they do not enjoy any guarantees inherent in labour law. This is deeply unfair, precisely when it is known that MACS meet all the criteria for obtaining the status of salaried worker: a benefit, a salary or a link of subordination. This ambivalence leads to real abuses on the ground. A very telling example is the fact that there is no legal framework for working hours or control of the same hours, which means that doctors in training are given hours exceeding the reasonable limit, sometimes up to 120 hours of work per week. They rightly denounce a real exploitation within hospitals, not to say a slavery of modern times, a growing lack of valorisation, but also the disgust of the profession resulting from it, a profession initially chosen by passion and vocation. This situation is dramatic for these doctors as well as for their patients who therefore lose in terms of quality of care provided. MACS fear not only for their own health but also for the health of their patients. They are afraid that one day a mistake due to their extreme fatigue will be fatal to them. In the wake of the suspension of non-vital care decided to relieve our hospitals from the influx of patients co-viding into intensive care units, it was therefore urgent to send a strong signal to these doctors to tell them that we are not abandoning them. It was in this health and social context that I was delighted to see this bill emerge from the majority. A proposal which, it was said, has two main objectives: to improve the specific representation of MACS and university hospitals in the National Joint Medical Hospital Commission, respectively on the bench of doctors and on the bench of managers, but also to extend the period during which the clinical activity carried out by these doctors to deal with the consequences of the health crisis can be regarded as part of their internship. It happens precisely that in May and June of this year I had specifically asked the Minister of Health about when this Joint Committee would fully involve these doctors in view of the important mission it is pursuing, namely the development of a potential status for MACS. In other words, it took almost seven months to finally see an answer to this question emerge. Still, you have to be on the right side. These measures will indeed improve the working conditions of MACS, but very partially, because this is only a step towards a full upgrading of these doctors, given the immense challenges that still need to be met. I am thinking of the fact that the quality of training remains a major problem. There is also still no objective mechanism to control these hours of work. There is still no distinction between the employer and the trainee. There is still no independent point of contact where MACS can file a complaint or, at the very least, make observations, without having to fear for the continuation of their internship. There are also those wages which remain far too low, but also and above all, there is still no employee status for these MACS and therefore still no sufficient and adequate social security coverage. Therefore, if we are to substantially improve their working conditions, further structural and comprehensive measures are still to be taken concerning the workload in hospitals, which is directly linked to the number of doctors available and, consequently, to the upgrading of the health care professions and the numerus clausus. That is why my speech is going to join that of Mrs Fonck, who spoke, a moment ago, quite rightly. Indeed, on these two points my concerns are growing as well. That is why, in fact, we will be two of us to question the minister earlier on the question of the upgrading of the care professions. Like Mrs Fonck, I have never ceased to plead the question of the numerus clausus in response to the demands of the land. Instead, what do we see? The Minister strengthens this mechanism by taking a new measure of pressure against the Communities. It is this famous bill containing various provisions that has just been cited by Mrs Fonck. Yes, in accordance with the "accountability" mechanism that was provided for black on white in your government agreement, you expect that if the Communities do not strengthen their screening measures at the entrance to medical studies, and more quickly, you will take over the federal hand through a quota certification mechanism. It will therefore be the medical students, on whom we rely, who seem to be recognized to their fair value through this text, and the trainees, whom this bill intends to defend, who will ultimately be penalized. The result is a double speech. Indeed, here you intend to relieve young doctors that you are penalising at the same time in another text voted almost simultaneously, this famous tote bill. It is also a real nonsense about the dramatic situation we are experiencing today in our hospitals, but also in all front-line care services. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the measures contained in this bill will, in part, contribute to the improvement of the working conditions of the MACCS, which is why we will support this text. However, I must point out that we expect much more, really much more from you during this term – and above all, in the short term – both in terms of specific measures for doctors in training and in terms of structural measures relating to healthcare professions and hospitals. I beg you to believe that we will pay particular attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u63	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u64	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2374/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2374/1) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u66	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u68	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2357/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2357/3) The title was changed by the committee to "Bill amending section 19 of the Acts on the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending Article 19 of the Laws on the Council of State, coordinated on 12 January 1973." the bill has 2 clauses. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u70	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u72	Madam President, I will indeed report orally, as agreed yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional and Institutional Renewal. First of all, Madam President, you intervened because you were the main applicant of the proposal. You said that this is the subject of a budget debate that will be on the table in plenary next week. In that debate it will be decided to reduce the amount by 1,11 % in 2022. This bill confirms that commitment. Meanwhile, there has been a triple index jump. The figures were thus updated. In the text there was the basic dotation that was multiplied by 0.89, which represents a reduction of 1,11 % of the dotation. Mr Hedebouw then intervened in saying that this is a tiny step. Its party wants to reduce by 48 percent, in order to achieve the reform which the PVDA wants, i.e. to halve the party figures. It is indexed by 2% and reduced by 1,11 %, so actually, Mr Hedebouw says, this is an increase of 280,000 euros. He also stated that after Spain, Belgium as a European country spends the most on political parties. In order to prevent this problem, the PVDA tabled an amendment reducing the amount by 50%. The N-VA then stated that this bill is not a good method, and only symbolic. Proposals from the past were always voted away. The N-VA proposed to amend Article 16 with two amendments and to abolish Article 18 of the 1989 Act. This amounts to the abolition of the indexation mechanism. As a result, the amounts will no longer grow, and even decrease, without the political parties feeling it. With the proposal before us, this should be done annually. That's why it's just a patch on a wooden leg, according to the N-VA. Flemish Interest states that the party dotations are far too high. The proposal before us is a huge missed opportunity in times of budgetary tightness in this economic crisis. As a political party, we have an exemplary role to play and at least the same effort must be made, said Mrs Pas. VB has already put forward a proposal to halve the amounts and, as far as the Senate is concerned, to abolish them altogether. Now Flemish Interest is again proposing this on the basis of an amendment. Tough statements in the media cannot be about 1,11 %. The opportunity must now be seized to really change. Open Vld stressed that the debate was not concluded. Mr Dewael said that they would subscribe to the proposal to make an effort in 2022 of 1,11 %, but that this could continue for them in the coming years. He said that the discussion would be held again next year and that he would be there again. Green then suggested that a global discussion on party financing be speeded up, as this is stated in the coalition agreement. Mr Calvo also disagreed with the halving of party speeches and said that this important debate should not only take place among majority parties, because each position is very important. The author of the bill stressed that this was a government proposal. Parliament can then decide for itself next year, which is an important signal for parliamentary freedom. The vote then took place. Amendment No 1 was rejected by 11 to 3 votes, Amendment No 1. 3 was rejected by 11 votes to 3 and Amendment No 3 was rejected by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 2 was rejected by 10 votes to 2 with 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported by the majority parties and the N-VA. The Flemish Interest abstained and PVDA voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u73	Mrs Bury, thank you very much for the oral report, which was quite objective. Madam President, I will begin with the good news. We shall vote in favour of your bill here as we did in committee. We shall even vote for it with a great heart if the majority approves our two amendments. With a little less enthusiasm, we will, if necessary, approve your unconventional proposal, because many little ones are making a big one. Allow me to explain briefly before I go into more detail about your own proposal. Because of circumstances, such as the covid crisis, which certainly plays a role in this respect, efforts are being made to the public. It is therefore only natural that Parliament should also take the necessary initiatives to save money. Following the 2019 elections, several initiatives have been taken in Parliament to save on party donations. None of these initiatives have so far been successful. Allow me to highlight two. We go back in time to the end of 2019. At that time, an amendment to the 2020 budget was adopted by a large majority here in the Chamber, which resulted in an agreement to save a lump sum of EUR 600,000 on party donations. However, an amendment to the budget is not enough. There was also a need for a change in the law that never came. There has never been any initiative by the majority to turn that beautiful promise, which is to save EUR 600,000, into reality. So we could describe that if the public were to throw some sand in their eyes. At the same time, during the same period, I also tabled a legislative proposal to abolish indexation in the Law of 4 July 1989, which would result in a recurrent, not insignificant saving, every year, without any initiatives being taken. That bill is still gathering dust in some sort of slide. Madam President, I was somewhat relieved when I learned of your bill, which finally led to an initiative by the majority behind the Vivaldi government to reduce the number of party cases. That is a good initiative in itself, but it does not go far enough. However, I would like to point out that the government must obviously encourage the majority here in Parliament to make this not overly heavy savings of 1.1%. I regret that this has never been the case in Parliament. Our amendment seeks to replace Article 2 of your legislative proposal in order to include an amendment to Article 16 of the Law of 4 July 1989, which increases the amounts included in it. We assume a fictitious indexing and put us in place at the end of 2019. These amounts would then remain frozen at that level in the future. With our second amendment, we are asking for a new Article 3 to be included in your legislative proposal. This would simply delete Article 18 on the indexation mechanism. Colleagues, if our amendments are adopted, this will immediately save EUR 914.691 for the part-session alone. From next year onwards, a few hundred thousand euros would be added each time. I know that certain parties in this semi-round are in a cramp when I drop the word index or index adjustment. I think that is wrong, because the adjustment we are asking for is not an adjustment of wage indexation. It is simply an indexation of a provision which we wish to see abolished. I do not think that the cold feet or the objections we have are relevant. The donations are used to a large extent to realize and support the functioning of a political party. So it's not just about personnel costs. I therefore believe that this argument does not make any sense. That is why I am calling for our amendments to be supported and thus for substantial and recurrent savings to be made. I think I have understood from debates that the majority will nevertheless take initiatives to amend the law of 4 July 1989. You will find a constructive partner in us for that, if this continues, because in the past promises have been made when it has never been made. The evidence is the proposed savings of EUR 600,000. We're looking forward to that. If savings are to be made, each party, large or small, must make the same savings. It is not a question of seeking a situation in which larger parties have to turn in more heavily than the small parties. I therefore ask for the support of the majority in this semi-round for our two amendments. We will approve this bill because it is a step in the right direction, albeit too small.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen who are still present, the current party funding was worked out in the wake of the Agustas scandal, in which the Flemish and French-speaking socialists had committed themselves to large-scale corruption. Since then, gifts from private individuals and companies have been restricted and party donations have been replaced. Unfortunately, the traditional parties have served themselves well over the years. In the event of electoral loss, the cake was simply increased, so that no financial loss was suffered. The party dots are simply too high. Especially in times of budgetary tight and economic crisis, the funding of the political parties, which are ultimately an important example, needs to go down sharply. Of course, the proposal before us does not. We are talking about a reduction of 1.11%. As was noted in committee yesterday, party funding in absolute terms is still increasing by EUR 280,000 or 0.87%. In addition, the operating costs for the political groups are also increasing. That does not mean that we will vote out your legislative proposal, Madam President. We cannot do that, in which case the party dotation will be even higher. However, it is nothing more than a symbolic gesture. In absolute figures, the gesture does not mean any reduction at all. We cannot, of course, approve that either. We will abstain today, just as we did yesterday in committee and as the rapporteur said, unless you do not vote our amendment this time, of course. Then we will be very happy to support the proposal. There are amendments, by the way. For example, Mr Van der Donkt, who has just explained his amendments, proposes that the indexation mechanism be abolished in the law. If I am not mistaken, he called the proposal of 1.11 % reduction a patch on a wooden leg. In all honesty, an indexamethasone elimination is also a patch on a wooden leg. Nor will that result in the great reduction in party dotations. However, we shall support his amendments. Every saving, no matter how small, is a saving. Of course, it can be much better. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is actually a missed opportunity to reduce party funding and really cut it down. You will have a second chance: we have retabled our amendment to halve the party dots. Even if you vote that out again today, which I do half expect, you still have a second chance. Mr Dewael, whose entire group is currently absent, stressed yesterday in the discussion that the debate on party funding has not yet been concluded. He is right to want to have the debate again next year. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not do it like this time. Then let us not hold the discussion just before Christmas, so that we even have to come to the plenary with an oral report. No, let us carry out the debate on party financing earlier and, above all, much more thoroughly, and please let it lead to results on that occasion. After all, there have been a lot of discussions in the past about party financing, but they have never led to anything. Now the cards are slightly different. The traditional parties, elected after election and polling after polling, suddenly consider it necessary for small parties to receive more than large ones. In addition, just as suddenly, we want to limit social media spending, in an attempt to silence parties such as mine, which are relatively less addressed in the regular press. For us, the use of the debate on party funding is drastic cuts in its volume. Those amounts are simply too high. So we will not follow purple-green mini parties, which simply want to revise the key. Our position is clear, the Flemish Interest wants to halve the existing party donations and also completely abolish the additional donations for parties that have one senator. That is what we tabled a legislative proposal for a long time ago. I have heard many of my colleagues, especially the majority, make statements and make tough statements in the press as they are in favour of a substantial reduction in party speeches. I will certainly remind them of these statements when the debate, which Patrick Dewael promised us, is held next year. I hope that, for once, these colleagues will, at least consistently, take action and drastically reduce the volume of party funding, because today, unfortunately, that is anything but the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, at last a debate on the amounts to be paid to the parties. Because it's about a lot of money, I thought the room would be full. But this is just an empty room! I don't know, maybe the PVDA should be threatening to put the dots aside for a while. Everyone's gonna be fine. However, this is an important debate, ladies and gentlemen. We ask the people to tighten up the belt. We ask that people's wages remain blocked during the crisis. We are reducing the budget of public services. There's no money, there's no money! But for one article of our budget, there is money. There is money when it comes to the donations of political parties. Klingkling! I was amazed by it myself. I didn't know: 42 million a year! That is what the aiders of this country are: 42 million subsidies! Cling, cling! That's amazing! They're gonna tell me we want to do something about it and we're getting a proposal. Listen carefully to this, it is a radical measure of the Vivaldi government: reduce party endowments by 1.1%! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think in reading the bill that 1.1% is already radical. Then I scratch and what do I see? In fact, it's not 1.1%, it's first +2% indexation and then -1.1%. As a result, today we are voting by +0.9%! Even the 1.1% is not true. No, +0.9%, i.e. €289,000 more! Cling, cling! And we're being asked to vote on that. But I cannot vote with the PTB! Then it is said that indexation is important for employees' wages. Where's the money from those dots going? That's not being spent, it's just being invested in real estate. Today we have reached the record of 134 million euros of heritage. All that money just gets piled up. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming up with a truly radical proposal, a reduction of 50% in all amounts. That would pay off. It is noted that several parties feel the hot breath of PDVA, including opposition parties. The Flemish Interest, which has been part of Parliament for 30 years, has not talked much about these amounts. The PVDA is coming in here and we need everyone in on it right away. That's just incredible, isn't it? On 3 March, the PVDA will submit a bill for a reduction of 50% of the amounts and on 4 March, who will issue its bill? Flemish Interest. That's really moving the whole spectrum. Those dotties must be over. There are other files that are important, such as reducing...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u76	Mr Hedebouw, you should stand up for your party, but you should not start saying that your party has taken the initiative here and that the rest will follow. May I remind you that my proposal to abolish indexation or skip one year in 2019 was voted off by your party? You may tell the truth, but you must tell the whole truth. I admit that you supported our proposal the following year, but in 2019 your party voted enthusiastically against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u77	Mr Van der Donkt, it is really very difficult for the PVDA, a party asking for a reduction of 50%, to hear the N-VA say that it comes up with a big proposal of -2 %. Then we wonder what the population will think about a proposal of -2 %. I'll tell you. At the café they laugh at that -2 %. We want -50 %. We're with the richest parties in Europe. Of course -2 % isn't enough, -1.1 % isn't enough either. -50 % is in the order of magnitude the right proposal and I hear more and more parties agreeing to a revision, but not those tiny revisions. Come on, that's not the answer the people are waiting for. So, I ask you whether the N-VA will support our proposal of -50 %?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u78	I'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u79	So you're not answering?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u80	I did not ask any intervention to answer your question, I ask a question myself. Do you know the saying "better one bird in the hand than ten in the air"? You had a 600,000 euro bird in your hand and you let it fly. So now you have nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u81	That's typical reasoning that makes me understand why the N-VA is involved in that system. We don't need little things, there's got to be a radical break! That's a disagreement, isn't it? Will the N-VA reduce our 50 percent amendment? You say no, and I am so sorry because I thought there would be a new political culture. Colleagues, we cannot support an increase in staffing. We cannot support the €280,000 increase that is being submitted to us, but we have a solution. We have, of course, at the general request, reintroduced our amendment to the plenary to have, at around 5 p.m. or 6 p.m., a chance to draft and vote on the amendment of the PTB-PVDA. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u82	Madam President, this subject has been discussed at length in other places, in other commissions, without recalling that, when there is an allocation to political parties, these endowments also allow the salaries of staff, of a number of collaborators, to be paid. If there is an indexation also makes it possible to cope with the indexation of wages. I would not want certain political parties, which prefer to invest in collaborators, in grey matters and in support of parliamentary activity, to be penalized tomorrow, while other parties instead make the choice to invest in a very abundant communication on social networks, on Facebook, etc. For this reason, Madam President, as I said in the Conference of Presidents and in other places, I would like to see a real debate on the use of public funds for propaganda on certain social networks, such as Facebook, which is a multinational that is also organized to avoid paying taxes, most often through tax havens. There is a real ethical or even legal problem of feeding Facebook, as some parties do with millions of euros. It seems to me that money is being misused. Some prefer to feed the multinational Facebook with sometimes purely personal expenses. To the limit, there would be the promotion of the ideology, doctrine or ideas of a political party, one could understand it. But sometimes it is the promotion of a particular person. I gave examples not so long ago, so when you want to be moral, in my opinion, it is better to be irreproachable yourself, which is not the case. But what is most shocking to me is that public money is in fact found in the profits of some multinationals housed in tax havens. It bothers me and it is a real debate. That is why several political groups have tabled bills. I hope that some, who have come up to the rostrum to teach the lesson, will be able to follow us, in order to limit the expenses that feed multinational social networks like Facebook, which plant their profits in tax havens. I hope we're followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u83	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u84	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2376/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2376/6) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u85	• Raoul Hedebouw (2376/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u86	Adopted article by article: article 1
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-16-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip147x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. I propose to interrupt our work, and we shall resume this afternoon. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 16, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 16 December 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
