ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u1	Welcome colleagues and Madam Secretary, for the first time live here in the Chamber. We're happy about that. We look forward to a future in which we can all sit together again, because that benefits the debate. Ondertussen is het to war as to war.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u2	Madam President, Minister, in September 2011, shortly after the fall of Muammar Gaddafi's dictatorial regime, the United Nations Security Council adopted several resolutions. The latter, of crucial importance in the context of the democratic reconstruction of the country, provide for the freezing of funds, financial assets and economic resources of several societies controlled by the relatives of the former dictator. For more than nine years, Libyan financial assets - valued at more than €16 billion in 2013 - have been frozen on the accounts of a financial institution located in Belgium. You are aware that, at present, several Belgian companies and ASBLs hold debt securities in respect of the Libyan State. According to the information provided, it appears that several judgments and judgments have been delivered by the Belgian courts and tribunals in this case, confirming the validity of those claims. Pursuant to paragraphs 19, 20 or 21 of resolution 1970, States members of the United Nations may, under certain conditions, authorize the release of assets to enable the payment of contractual obligations. A seizure and enforcement of these judicial decisions may therefore be envisaged by creditors, provided, however, that partial removal of Libyan assets can be effected, but also and above all, that the service of such decisions takes place as soon as possible. As a result, Minister, what are the responses to the court decisions in this matter? Has the Government served and/or notified these decisions to the United Nations in order to request the partial lifting of the freeze on Libyan funds, up to and for the exclusive benefit of the Belgian companies and ASBLs?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u3	Madam President, before I ask my question - which deals with the same subject as that of my colleague François De Smet - let me wish our Foreign Minister a good year. I have been calling on the government for years to put an end to a glaring injustice against the ASBL Global Sustainable Development Trust (GSDT). Indeed, while the Belgian State has intervened to help Belgian companies - including FN Herstal - recover their claims against Libya, it has so far refused to notify the UN Sanctions Committee so that the ASBL GSDT can recover its own claims, confirmed by no less than five court decisions, both at first instance and on appeal, by thawing Libyan funds frozen by Belgium. It is known that the above funds are held, in particular by Euroclear, on behalf of the Libyan Investment Authority. This is a discrimination which I find shocking and which is totally unjustifiable under the law. Even though this notification is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, it is your responsibility to forward it to the secretariat of the United Nations Sanctions Committee. Minister Goffin had prepared this notification and appeared to be waiting for a full-fledged government to forward it to New York. I asked the new Minister of Finance about this last October. He replied, when he discovered the file, that his administration had doubts, but made no argument. I questioned him again last week, and he replied: "I inform you that, in the context of GSDT, since the commission of 20 October, I have received two letters from the liquidator of this ASBL. In view of these, I informed my Foreign Affairs colleague in writing at the beginning of December that I do not see any objection to a notification procedure in New York." So that's good news. My question is simple: you have received this green light from the Minister of Finance to notify the United Nations Sanctions Committee. What's your status? Did you do it? If so, when and how? What answer do you expect? In fact, no response is expected, since without the red light of the Sanctions Committee, one can move forward ten days after the notification. What's the status of this case, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u4	Madam President, I wish the whole House and Mr Dallemagne the best of my wishes, and the custom that we have until 31 January to do so. As you have pointed out, the responsibility for freezing and thawing funds lies with the Minister of Finance, and it is up to him to decide. The role of Foreign Affairs is to be the intermediary between Belgium and the Sanctions Committee established by the United Nations Security Council in its resolution 1970-2011. I have taken note, as you have told me, of the response of my colleague from Finance last week in committee. However, it is up to me that the discussions within the government are not, on this subject, finalized and according to the decision that will be taken, it is quite obvious and without any dispute, that I will ensure the role that belongs to me as a transmission belt between the government and the competent bodies at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u5	I thank the Minister for her concise but clear answer. Like my colleague, we will wait to see what attitude the government will eventually take on this issue. There are no longer many obstacles that prevent him from moving forward. Nine years is a lot of time and 16 billion makes a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hear your caution. I am counting on you to approach this issue constructively because you were not working on the subject before, I think, but it was already your government. I feel like we're playing cat and mouse, turning the ball back. The legal arguments are extremely well founded. I will not read them all again and I refer in particular to the letter of Professor of International Administrative Law, Prof. of Broux, Saint-Louis University. He said that, for this non-profit organization, we must act in the name of three fundamental principles: -the principle of non-discrimination - the Belgian Government has intervened in other cases and it would be strange, if not unacceptable, not to intervene in this case; - the undertaking of the responsibility of the State - the possible refusal by the Belgian State alone competent to refer the case to the United Nations Sanctions Committee would cause obvious damage to this ASBL and one could see - in case of refusal by the Belgian State to intervene in its favour - this association under Belgian law turned against the Belgian State in order to obtain reimbursement of its claim; In the long run, it might also seem that there is an attack that could affect the monarchy. Very curiously, there was no intervention in respect of an ASBL in which Prince Laurent played an active role, while there was intervention in favour of other ASBLs or Belgian companies. That would at least be paradoxical. It is not a question of asking for preferential treatment, but of asking that everyone be treated on an equal footing. Therefore, I really count on you so that this matter can finally succeed, after all these procrastinations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u7	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I would first like to wish you all the best for the new year. This is not just a formality in your case, since you have been at the forefront of managing the health crisis and this pandemic. So I think it is very important in your particular case to wish you all the best for 2021. Minister, this is a good thing since two weeks ago, the London court delivered a first-instance opinion on Julian Assange's extradition to the United States. Yet the issues remain relevant, as he remains in total isolation in Belmarsh prison, a very high-security prison. The Amnesty International report and the United Nations special report on torture, which speaks of psychological torture in the case of Julian Assange and in this context of Belmarsh prison, are known. Then, Julian Assange's risk of extradition to the United States remains a sword of Damocles. It is very important to recall what Amnesty International is telling us. The extradition of Julian Assange would have serious consequences in terms of human rights by setting a very dangerous precedent for the protection of all those who publish information classified as secret in the public interest and in this case, when it is necessary to publish information on serious war crimes. It seems to me that it is very important to be able to talk about this in our parliamentary assembly as well and to ask you how Belgium has questioned or is going to question the Government of the United Kingdom and/or the United States about the conditions of detention and the risk of extradition of Julian Assange, in violation of Article 3 of the ECHR. Has Belgium taken any steps, for example in the Council of Europe, since we are talking about the European Convention on Human Rights and we know that the United Kingdom is still a member of it? Thirdly, could Belgium intervene to get Julian Assange out of isolation and put him in an emergency hospital for treatment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u8	Madam President, Madam Minister, first of all, I wish you my best wishes, even though I think I have anticipated a little bit by presenting them to you already in December. Minister, the trial for Julian Assange's extradition to the United States reopened in September in London ended on January 4. Julian Assange has become for many the emblematic figure of the "alert launcher". The journalist created the first platform to broadcast a series of ultra-confidential documents on the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. He also participated in the publication of documents with a series of major international media. For the American authorities, it is not seen at all under the prism of press freedom, but under that of espionage and treason. Arrested in April 2019 after seven years behind the walls of the Ecuadorian diplomatic representation in London where he had taken refuge after violating the conditions of his bail, Julian Assange, the founder of Wikileaks, still fears an extradition to the United States where he is under 18 charges. In particular, the United States blamed him for allowing Wikileaks and a number of major international media outlets to publish documents classified as secret by the US administration in 2010. In particular, they accuse him of endangering sources of American services, accusing him of espionage and hacking. As you know, Julian Assange faces 175 years in prison. This trial for the extradition of Assange involves a large number of associations of journalists, NGOs and citizens who see it as a serious violation of freedom of expression and democratic transparency. Long before the start of the trial, Julian Assange's conditions of detention in a high-security area of a London prison had already worried his many supporters who denounced severe treatment (isolation ward, daily release of up to one hour). Several associations of journalists and NGOs around the world, tens of thousands of British citizens had gone up to the niche to plead for a reduction in Mr. Assange's conditions of detention. And, at the start of the trial before the British courts, Julian Assange's partner, Stella Moris, handed down to Downing Street, the residence of the British Prime Minister, a petition from Reporters Without Borders against the extradition of his companion. This petition was signed by 80,000 people in the United Kingdom. In addition, a few days ago, joined by Snowden, she spoke to the outgoing U.S. president to pardon his companion. Minister, since this question was tabled, the verdict of the trial has fallen. It resulted in the rejection of the extradition request. It is of course not a matter for us to interfere in the United Kingdom's judicial proceedings, but I would like to ask you the following questions in a more general context. Has Belgium fully committed to the defence of press freedom positioned itself on the fate of whistleblowers in various international fora and on the case of Assange in particular? Secondly, did Belgium have any contacts with the representatives of the United States and the United Kingdom on the precise situation of Mr Assange, his conditions of detention and his right to a fair trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u9	Madam Secretary, first of all, my best wishes for 2021. On 4 January 2021, the British Central Criminal Court in London decided that Julian Assange cannot be extradited to the United States, where he is facing life imprisonment or even the death penalty. Unfortunately, the judge motivated the ruling not on the grounds of freedom of the press but on the grounds of Assange's mental and physical health, which cannot cope with a stay in the United States' prison system. After the United States Government announced its intention to bring an action against the judgment, the judge also decided that Assange was not entitled to a bail release. Despite the fact that the UN Special Rapporteur for Torture, Nils Melzer, described his situation in Belmarsh's British maximum security prison as psychological torture, the judge apparently saw no contradiction between the two judgments. Madam Secretary, what is the Belgian position on the decision? Will you protest to your British colleague? After all, even after a long imprisonment in inhumane conditions and despite the ruling on his mental health, Mr Assange is not granted bail. Are you prepared to respond to our repeated request that Julian Assange, if he or his defence so requests, offer a humanitarian visa or grant him asylum?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u10	Thank you for your questions. First of all, I would like to remind you that the subject had already been discussed on 10 December. Belgium's position has not changed much. Since then, however, the London Court of First Instance decided in early January not to approve Mr. Assange's extradition to the United States because of his state of health. U.S. prosecutors may appeal this decision to the Court. It goes without saying that the promotion and protection of human rights in general, including with regard to the press, are particular concerns in our diplomatic actions. Julian Assange is an Australian citizen. The United Kingdom, where it is being held, is also a democratic country, which respects the principles of the rule of law. It has independent justice and there is the necessary internal control to guarantee the right to fair justice. However, it is also true that detention in isolation is a particularly harsh measure with a long-term impact on the health of the prisoner, in particular on mental health. On 8 December, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture issued a statement in which he effectively equates Julian Assange's detention and isolation with arbitrary detention but also torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. To date, I confirm that Belgium has not discussed the situation of Mr Assange, either with the United Kingdom or with the United States. For my part, I did not meet with representatives of these countries; it would have been difficult to do so verbally or in face-to-face. There are also many multilateral mechanisms that ensure compliance with international human rights legal instruments. Some are also accessible directly by Mr. Assange's defence. The United Kingdom is a Member State of the Council of Europe and is party to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. That regional institution shall have effective mechanisms to ensure and monitor respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms, including conditions of detention. The Council of Europe has, inter alia, a platform for strengthening the protection of journalists and the security of journalists. Julian Assange's situation was discussed following a warning from the European Federation of Journalists. Our country supported that platform last year with a contribution of 90,000 euros from the (...) trust fund. The United Kingdom is also a party to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. States parties must report regularly to the Committee against Torture. The United Kingdom recognized the competence of the Committee against Torture to receive individual complaints. Finally, I can assure you that in the various international fora, including the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the OECD, Belgium is committed to the protection of whistleblowers. Within the Human Rights Council, our country has supported several resolutions on this subject. For example, a resolution on the safety of journalists co-sponsored by our country in 2018 addressed the important role of whistleblowers and the need for their protection. The possibility of granting a humanitarian visa falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, who has already answered the question in committee. As I said, Julian Assange is Australian. Canberra has stated that Mr Assange can return to Australia if he so wishes when he is released.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that since December 10, a court decision has fallen, it was early January. This decision is based on Julian Assange's state of health, but not so much on the risk of extradition itself. That is what we are concerned about because it is a potential precedent for the violation of press rights and freedoms. However, as you pointed out in your reply, we know how much freedom of the press has been dear to Belgium since its beginnings and, indeed, well anchored in our constitution. Today, Julian Assange's solitary confinement is considered to be an act of torture. I therefore believe that it would be wise to express Belgium's fears, especially in view of the precedent that this would represent. I believe that, as parliamentarians, we cannot stand by such a risk of a major violation of the fundamental freedoms of journalists and whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You reaffirm our country's commitment to certain principles. I also believe that steps, even symbolic ones, can be useful. The British judge does not question the reasons for extradition. The risk therefore remains quite obvious. In this respect, we will have to pay attention to the evolution of the American position and to the way in which President Biden, who will finally be installed tomorrow, will consider the situation. It should be remembered that during Obama's presidency, it had been envisaged to waive the prosecution of Wikileaks. Let us hope that the future American position will be in favour of freedom of the press and the protection of whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u13	Thank you for the answer. Despite the fact that Britain guarantees a fair course of justice, that it is a rule of law and a member of the Council of Europe, it remains a fact that Mr Assange is not being extradited at the moment, but is not being released either. Nor is the judgment of the British judge based on the freedom of the press. That should cause us concern, because it does not go against a dangerous precedent, namely that any journalist or whistleblower anywhere in the world can be held accountable by the US on the basis of US legislation and is effectively at risk of being extradited to the US. That is worrying and we must keep an eye on it. That means a threat to journalists and whistleblowers worldwide. I would like to remind you that our country has a tradition of offering asylum and/or shelter to people who are politically persecuted for their opinions, opinions or statements. In this case, Julian Assange has denounced many war crimes with Wikileaks through numerous documents. It seems logical to me that the principle should be that the aggressors of proven war crimes should be held accountable, not the whistleblowers. In the coalition agreement, I read that the government will commit itself to a full statute for whistleblowers. So add the deed to the word. You say that Mr Assange may return to Australia after release, but the risk of extradition remains. In this sense, we should be able to take action and, if the defence or Julian Assange asks, we should, in line with the tradition that characterizes our country, give Julian Assange that protection. History will acquit Julian Assange, but in the meantime he must enjoy the protection he deserves. We will continue to follow up on the dossier and hope that he will be able to enjoy that protection here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u14	Minister, Paul Rusesabagina is known for saving the lives of more than a thousand Tutsis and moderate Hutus in his hotel during the Rwandan genocide. We have already dealt with this issue in this committee. This act was immortalized in the film Hotel Rwanda. Faced with threats to his life, which he suffered in Rwanda, he moved to Belgium in 1996 and obtained Belgian nationality in 1999. He was also known to be an opponent of Paul Kagame's authoritarian regime. But what is terrible is that on 31 August last he was kidnapped in Dubai, tied up, blindfolded to be taken, in private jet, and thrown into a prison a few days later in Rwanda. My first question relates to the statements of Rwandan General Joseph Nzabamwita, Secretary-General of the Security and Intelligence Services in Rwanda, who stated that the United States and Belgium had cooperated with Rwanda in the investigation into Mr. Rusesabagina and that apparently the Belgian intelligence officer would have personally congratulated him on the arrest of Mr. Rusesabagina. This is what the Rwandan general told the press a few days after his arrest. It would be interesting to have at first an official denial from the Belgian federal government on Belgium's cooperation with this arrest. I assume that Belgium did not cooperate in the abduction and enforced disappearance of its own national by the Rwandan secret services in Dubai. My second question concerns the enforced disappearance and the act of abduction on 31 August in Dubai. Has Belgium clearly denounced the abduction or is it planning to do so? It seems to me that it is very important to say this because there is a principle of due process. Even if it were the worst terrorist, which some are trying to make believe, we remain a rule of law that has judicial rules and procedures as well as rules of criminal procedure. It cannot be accepted in Belgium (regardless of its origin) that a Belgian is intercepted during a trip and abducted by a third country. I think it is important to say things clearly to the Rwandan government. As a parliamentarian, it is important to recall that it seems that at least a red line has been crossed here. Finally, we know that consular assistance can of course be offered to this national. I know that has already been the case on several occasions. Here too, what is the latest news from the FPS Foreign Affairs to our consular services on the spot, regarding the assistance offered to Mr. Rusesabagina?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for answering my questions, which are quite similar and complementary to those of my colleague Cogolati. He recalled that we had an exchange of views on this issue during the presentation of your policy note in November. At that time, you stated that, during a second consular visit, he had received medicines from his family. However, it seems that this was not the case, as your department confirmed to the family in a December 4 e-mail: "The medicines we had sent through diplomatic channels were probably not given to him. We therefore question the medical treatment available to him." In the same e-mail, it was stated that the trial would begin on 26 January and that you did not have details of the local judicial proceedings. According to various consistent and serious sources, Mr. Rusesabagina was abducted by the Rwandan intelligence services in Dubai. First of all, I would like you to confirm whether you also qualify this act as kidnapping, an act which would obviously be totally contrary to Belgian law and international law. Have there been any protests against the Rwandan government, which is, unfortunately, customary in terms of harassment and even the liquidation of some of its opponents abroad? We know that this government is using these methods. Have the Belgian justice and security services ever had any criticism to make of this Belgian citizen? It would be interesting to know. Does the allegations of terrorism made by the Rwandan regime have any basis? I guess not, but I'm asking the question. Is Belgium in a position to provide consular assistance under international law to this Belgian citizen or are the Rwandan authorities opposed to it? Have the medicines necessary for the health of this citizen been given to him? What is his state of health today? Could another consular visit have taken place or is it planned? What about his trial? Do you have any details of the on-site procedures? Have you been assured that his trial will be conducted according to acceptable legal standards? Finally, is this case not likely to break, if not already, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Belgian intelligence services and the Rwandan security services? You know that such a MoU was signed. Has there been any cooperation with Paul Rusesabagina? Rwandese security services are well known in Belgium. What action is your Government taking to put an end to this totally unacceptable intrusion? We cannot allow Belgium to serve as a playground for this and other intelligence services, as we have already had the opportunity to see.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u16	I agree with the questions. We had an exchange of views during the presentation of your policy paper. You said at that time that the circumstances of his arrest remain uncertain. However, various sources such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch report that they were not at all in accordance with international law and that they were indeed kidnapped. Moreover, access to lawyers of his choice remains a problem. President Kagame has already stated in advance that he is guilty. His health situation also remains worrying, while the supply of medicines by the family is also hampered. Can you confirm that the arrest of Paul Rusesabagina was not in accordance with the standards of international humanitarian law? If so, have you mentioned this explicitly in your diplomatic contacts? What impact does this have on bilateral relations with Rwanda? How can we ensure that Mr Rusesabagina's process is fair and transparent? If that cannot be guaranteed, is there any possibility of extradition to Belgium? Do you have any information on his condition? The family also approaches several people's representatives and has the pressing question of whether Belgian diplomacy can do more than today to protect him? Shortly before the arrest, the Belgian police searched Paul Rusesabagina's house in Kraainem. What are we supposed to derive from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I refer first of all to the replies given on 30 November in the Committee on External Relations in the context of the debate on the policy and policy note. Representatives of our embassy in Kigali have already been able to carry out three consular visits to Mr. Rusesabagina and meet with him by telephone twice, given the local health situation associated with the covid-19 pandemic. During these visits and telephone interviews, Mr. Rusesabagina was able to express his views on his detention and situation. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a two-week lockdown has been in place in Kigali since this morning. The impact of this confinement on Mr. Rusesabagina's detention, on our assistance and on the commencement of the trial on 26 January is still unknown at this stage. I can assure you that much attention is paid to Mr Rusesabagina's medical condition, his access to medication and medical treatment. However, under the privacy law, I am not allowed to share personal information here. There have also been several diplomatic contacts on Mr Rusesabagina's situation. The State Department also has permanent contact with his family and the lawyers who assist him and have been elected by him. Our actions are therefore carried out in full consultation with them. The circumstances of his arrest can only be revealed by the judicial investigation. The State Department and our embassy are not authorized to do so. I hope there will be clarity during the trial. Nor can I express myself on the elements of the judicial procedure or on matters relating to the intelligence services. Mr Cogolati, you did not mention it in your oral question - but in your written question - but the possible transfer to a Belgian prison is impossible because there is no legal basis for it. There is no bilateral agreement on the transfer of detainees between Belgium and Rwanda. In addition, Rwanda has not ratified the Strasbourg Convention on the Transfer of Prisoners. Furthermore, Mr. Rusesabagina is still being prosecuted in Rwanda and has not yet been tried. In conclusion, be assured that we continue our efforts in collaboration with our embassy in Kigali. We continue to ensure that Mr. Rusesabagina is detained in dignified conditions, that he is subject to adequate medical supervision, that his right to defence is respected and that he is entitled to a fair trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I thank in particular our services and the SPF Foreign Affairs, which closely follows the very special conditions of detention that our Belgian national, Mr Rusesabagina, lives in. At the same time, I can't help but think that none of this would have happened without this kidnapping and enforced disappearance, as Human Rights Watch described this roaring episode in Dubai. I believe that these are unacceptable events and that our country must send a very strong signal in this regard to the Rwandan government, to the regime of Paul Kagame. As the rule of law, we must stress that we do not accept the forced abduction and prosecution of our citizens. We have a judicial system in place, and I think it is important to recall, as parliamentarians, that all the rules of criminal procedure must be duly respected, which is probably not the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you. I have to admit, I'm still terribly hungry. I do not understand what is preventing Belgium from describing this as kidnapping. This is a perfectly illegal, totally scandalous and unacceptable act against a Belgian citizen. By not properly describing what happened, by suggesting that there could be a foundation, we put the life of this person in danger. In any case, we put his future in danger. I think it is absolutely necessary to demand that this Belgian citizen be repatriated to Belgium. I heard that there was absolutely nothing against him in the head of the Belgian authorities. It was still located in Belgium. If he had committed any criminal act, it was up to the Belgian courts to seize this story, which she obviously did not do. I think Belgium should be much clearer and more proactive. I'm very worried about how Paul Kagame gets rid of his opponents. We know that he does not hesitate to kill his opponents. You have to say it clearly. I believe that the life of this citizen depends on how we can ensure his or her proper protection. I really count on you to be very clear about these authorities in this case. We know that we are dealing with a very authoritarian and very dangerous government in situations like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u20	I agree with what Mr Dallemagne said. I think all red lights should be lit, including in diplomacy and consular services. The process is followed by international diplomacy, as well as by the media. That is why it is important for Belgian diplomacy to put its best foot in this. His house in Kraainem was searched. He's been kidnapped. Those are reasonably suspicious elements. The regime cannot afford everything. This is a Belgian national. Indeed, he cannot be extradited because there is no bilateral treaty, but that means that we must ensure that we have a fair and transparent process. It is good that diplomacy invests in his medical condition. The family is very worried about this. We will follow the case very closely. We are alarmed on various sides, not only by the family, but also by the Rwandan community. People are very concerned about what is happening to Paul Rusesabagina.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u21	Minister, I regularly come back to you regarding the situation of Ms.Abula and her four children. This Uighur family was arrested in front of the Belgian embassy in Beijing in May 2019. The latest information available to me dates from July 7. It was your predecessor Mr. Goffin who gave them to me at the time. I would like to return to this situation. Have there been any new contacts between the Belgian Embassy, your services and this family since November 2019? According to my information, there has been no contact since November 2019, which is worrying. Or have you made new contact with the family in question? Can you tell us more about the situation of Mrs. Abula and her children? I listened carefully to the radio broadcast by the U.S. public channel NPR on 13 July last concerning house arrest, the surveillance by ubiquitous police officers, the prohibition of contact with the refugee father in Belgium in Ghent, and the risk of transfer to an internment camp? It is known that more than a million Uighurs are now being held in one of these camps in Xinjiang Province, China. Has China shown more openness to Belgium's requests for the repatriation of this healthy and safe family? It should be recalled that a visa had been granted to this family to join Father Ablimit Tursun who is here in Belgium. Are there any progress towards the Chinese government? Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the current situation. An extradition convention was signed in 2016 between Belgium and China. This Convention was ratified by Parliament in 2018. Much is being discussed today as it has just entered into force. I think we should be able to say that this convention raises questions today. The situation has changed since 2016. The Chinese judicial system has evolved and is increasingly approaching a party apparatus, namely the Chinese Communist Party. The question of judicial independence must be asked. The requirements of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights are not respected. And then, the situation for these Uighur minorities as well as for the defenders of democracy in Hong Kong has changed dramatically in recent months. It would be sound for Belgium to reassess the application of this extradition treaty, in particular in the light of facts such as those I have just described about this Uighur family being held at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u22	Mr Cogolati, I propose that you remain in the context of the question that you asked me. Other speakers raised issues relating to extradition agreements. Otherwise, we won't make it. I am afraid that the next time I come back, we do not have 85 questions on the agenda, but rather 250. Between August and November 2019, our embassy in Beijing met twice by telephone with Ms.Abula. Since December 2019, despite several attempts, telephone contact could no longer be established. Therefore, the Chinese authorities were approached to inquire about the situation of the mother and her family. We were told that they were well and that, as Chinese citizens, their situation did not fall within the competence of Belgium. With regard to the facts reported on 13 July by the American station NPR (National Public Radio), I do not have any evidence to confirm them. However, we were informed by close family sources that Ms.Abula and her children were still residing in their apartment and that they were in school. In this case, the Department prefers discretion. Since 28 May 2019, regular and discreet contacts have taken place between the Belgian and Chinese authorities in both Beijing and Brussels. This situation was mentioned at a high level on the margins of the Princely Economic Mission in November 2019, as well as in December 2019 during an interview in Brussels between the Director General for Bilateral Affairs and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of China. In addition, in June 2019, the Chinese authorities were informed that the family reunification procedure had been completed and that a visa could be issued as soon as the family members were in possession of a Chinese passport in accordance with the Chinese procedure in force. During the various talks, Chinese interlocutors at all levels consistently pointed out that, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, foreign States, including Belgium, were not competent to intervene in favour of Chinese citizens residing in China. In this case, we continue to favour bilateral discussions in order to prevent any political instrumentalisation by outside actors, which, as you will understand, would only complicate the settlement of the file of the family of Ablimit Tursun in Xinjiang.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u23	Thank you, Minister. I am not surprised that the situation has not changed and the official answer given by China. In other words, "it's all right for this family" when we all know in this committee that the situation of the Uighur Muslim minority is very serious and alarming in terms of respect for their human rights and their minority in Xinjiang province. When we are told that Belgium has nothing to say, it is the Vienna Consular Convention that prevails. I believe it is important to recall that Belgium, and China, too, are subject to and subject to international human rights conventions and that when these rights are not respected and there are gross violations, particularly with regard to the prohibition of torture and the risk of crimes against humanity and even genocide, it is important that Belgium can say so loud and clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u24	Madam President, Minister, I would also like to wish you a happy New Year and a happy birthday, as I know you have celebrated it recently. My question, which had been tabled in early December, was about fears about the ongoing negotiations on Brexit and the risk of no deal. I will therefore adapt it and update it by asking you what our country's position is on the agreement reached by the European Union, including with regard to the protection of the interests of our fishermen and our fishing industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, I too would like to express my best wishes for the new year. We haven't had the opportunity to do that in this setting. I would also like to wish you a happy birthday, Madam Secretary. I saw it was last week. It was my birthday on Sunday, and apparently a few days later. My question, as it was submitted, is also dated. I've adapted them in the meantime. We have already discussed it with the Prime Minister during the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. He admitted that the agreement contained a number of loose ends, including the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. This is very important for a country like ours, where the service sector is very important. Studying and working in the UK will also be more difficult. My first question is whether the negotiations on these matters are conducted at European level or at bilateral level. A very large part that is not included in the agreement concerns foreign policy, as well as defence and external security. That also belongs to your store. The United Kingdom did not want to negotiate on this. Will you take steps yourself to obtain bilateral matters with the United Kingdom, or do you see otherwise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u26	Madam President, Madam Minister, after having asked you whether it is here, in committee, or in plenary, after saying "by is enough" and "too late is too late", I can finally say: "Finally, we have a deal!" A few weeks ago, as we were discussing this issue in the Chamber, you said that, even if time were running out, we had to continue to be patient, constructive and determined and take the time it took. You've been heard. Indeed, an agreement on Brexit was reached on Christmas Eve and only a few hours from the deadline. Some concessions had to be made, and that's normal. Many issues remain outstanding, but the agreement is nevertheless good news for the European Union as a whole, and especially for our country and our businesses. Given the global context we know, an exit without agreement would indeed have had dramatic consequences. The United Kingdom will therefore remain a privileged partner of the European Union thanks to an agreement which the President of the Commission considers "fair and balanced". Minister, how do you react to the announcement of this agreement? How do you judge him? More specifically, do you already have an assessment of the impact that this could have directly on our country, its economy and its businesses? Finally, how do you envisage bilateral relations between Belgium and the United Kingdom in the years to come? Madam President, this last question is part of the question I have attached, but I am already asking it to be more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u27	Madam President, I would like to thank everyone for their birthday wishes. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I'm sure you're aware of the peculiarities of stone goats. Probably the same peculiarities characterize us. I understand some things better now than before. But that stays between us. Thank you for your questions and good wishes. Long live the Capricorns! On 30 December 2020, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council President Charles Michel signed the Trade and Cooperation Treaty with the United Kingdom. The Treaty is also complemented by an agreement on information security and an agreement on nuclear energy. This signature ended ten months of intense and complex negotiations between Brussels and London, as you know. Since both parties failed to reach an agreement before 1 January, the European Commission indeed proposed in December an emergency regulation, which was accepted by the Council, in particular on aviation safety, aviation and road transport, rail links and the handling of requests for fishing in the waters of the counterparty. Since an agreement was reached on a treaty which could be applied from 1 January, those emergency regulations lost their raison d'être. I have therefore answered Mrs Van Bossuyt's question. Let us return, if you will, to the Treaty and its content. The main priorities of the European Union during the negotiations were to preserve the integrity of the European project and the protection of the internal market while laying the solid foundations for our new relationship with the United Kingdom. As a neighbouring State, a trading partner and a coastal State, Belgium was strongly calling for such a comprehensive and ambitious cooperation agreement, although, as I had the opportunity to say in this forum, our priority was to obtain a good agreement rather than an agreement at all costs. In this regard, the Government is of the view that the agreement reached by the Commission largely meets our priorities. The first merit of this agreement is first and foremost to exist. Indeed, after having managed not without difficulty to conclude a withdrawal agreement with London that settles the obligations arising from 44 years of membership of the Union, it was vital for the Commission to set the stage for our future relationship with the United Kingdom. Without this solid dual basis, we would have inevitably witnessed a deterioration in our relations and mutual distrust. Such a scenario, often feared during these negotiations, would have led to a huge political and economic cost to Europe, even though Europe is already seeing, with the departure of the United Kingdom, its weight in the world diminish. We can therefore welcome the fact that the European Union and the United Kingdom have finally managed to avoid this pitfall and to reach agreement. But we must not be mistaken, even with this agreement it is obvious that Brexit will generate significant costs on both sides of the English Channel. While the departure of the United Kingdom from the Union, its internal market and its customs union implies the reintroduction, between the two parties, of non-tariff barriers to the movement of persons, goods, services and capital – which is not negligible – these non-tariff barriers are translated into customs formalities, sanitary and phytosanitary controls, standards and standards that can evolve differently in both geographical areas. All these elements will increase the costs of trade between the two parties. It is very difficult at this stage to give a precise answer to the question of the exact economic impact of the Brexit on Belgium. Researchers have not yet been able to incorporate the effect of such a complex and precise treaty into their models, in particular on the rule of origin for free trade in goods and on the remaining uncertainties regarding trade in services, in particular finance. In a recent communication, the National Bank of Belgium estimates the loss of activities over a period of five years compared to a scenario of continuing UK membership of the Customs Union and the Internal Market at 0.3 % of GDP in a scenario with a free trade agreement, compared to 0.7 % in a scenario without such an agreement. It is therefore clear that the Treaty concluded will greatly limit the negative consequences of the UK's departure by providing a sound legal framework for trade and cooperation in various fields. The Treaty also provides, as you know, for trade in goods exempt from any quota and tariff, provided, of course, that these goods comply with the rules of origin. The Treaty also goes much further in terms of market access and guarantees for fair competition than is usually found in the European Union's free trade agreements. This is a crucial element, given the geographical and regulatory proximity of the United Kingdom to the European market. Both sides have thus committed themselves to maintaining high levels of protection in terms of labour, social protection, the environment, climate and common principles of the State. The Treaty provides that a party which considers itself socially or economically injured by differing levels of protection in these matters in the other party may take compensatory financial measures or suspend the application of the economic part of the Treaty. However, the Convention is less ambitious in a number of areas, such as services, for which the parties have agreed to apply the principle of national treatment, which means that investors and companies of a party must be treated in the same way as host companies. Nor does the agreement contain provisions on financial services, investment protection and mutual recognition of professional qualifications. There is no provision whatsoever in the fields of foreign policy, external security and defence. With regard to the mobility of persons, the rules on access to the territory will now depend on the United Kingdom's immigration law, on the one hand, and on the EU and its Member States, on the other. On the other hand, the Convention provides a framework for the maintenance of intensive judicial and police cooperation, for the participation of the United Kingdom in various EU programmes and for structured consultations on a number of themes. However, the Erasmus programme is not one of the programmes in which the United Kingdom still wishes to participate. Finally, I would like to say a word about fishing in response to Mrs Jadin's question. Agreement negotiations in this particular area fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union. Member States cannot therefore legislate or conclude separate agreements with the United Kingdom or another third State. The Treaty contains an agreement on fisheries which provides that, over a period of five and a half years, the fishing quotas of the European fleet in waters under British control will gradually decrease to 75% of the pre-Brexit value in subsequent years. Fishing quotas will be negotiated annually. In the absence of agreement, Member States would no longer have had access to waters under British control, which would have been particularly regrettable for Belgian fisheries, which were relatively more dependent on access to British waters than that of other Member States. I would also point out that in Belgium fishing is a regional competence. On the basis of the data which the Flemish Region has sent to my services, I can tell you that the Belgian fleet consists of about 65 vessels on which some 370 fishermen embark and that the sector concerns some 2,500 jobs. In conclusion, on the content of the agreement, I would say that this treaty is the result of a compromise. This applies as much to the cross-cutting issue of guarantees as to fair competition – what is known as the so-called level playing field – as to fisheries. This is an agreement that is generally positive, in any case much better than a dramatic no deal scenario. But this agreement is based on a general balance between market access, level playing and fishing, which must be maintained over time. Thus, we will have to be vigilant about the development of the situation in terms of fair competition and ensure that the many safeguards contained in the agreement will be triggered if the need arises. In reply to Mrs Van Bossuyt's last question on national measures to cope with the effects of the Brexit, I can confirm that the government is able, following the amendment to the Law of 6 March 2020, to adopt aid measures for companies, even when the United Kingdom and the European Union were able to reach an agreement. My colleague, the Minister for Labour, is better placed to explain these measures. Mr De Maegd, I will conclude with your question on the future of bilateral relations with the United Kingdom. We're opening a new chapter with London, with a lot of potential, I think. The United Kingdom remains our neighbour, a friendly country, a strategic ally with which Belgium has historical, economic and academic ties. The United Kingdom is expected to remain an important supplier and market for our economy. This is why Belgium will shortly be organising an important economic mission. Although an agreement at European level now forms the basis of our relationship, it remains possible for both the federal state and the federated entities to conclude complementary treaties or administrative agreements with the United Kingdom. Such treaties or agreements are envisaged in the areas of police, military and cyber security cooperation, for example. In all these areas, Belgium and the United Kingdom share interests and can strengthen each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u28	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer. As far as I am concerned, you have answered my questions on fisheries quite satisfactorily. I'll think about it. When the Prime Minister presented us with the outcome of the negotiations leading to an agreement on Brexit, we regretted that we had to get to that point. It is obvious that for the European spirit, for the European construction, for the integration of European policies, this remains a failure. In addition, I would like to underline all the intelligence that will be that of our diplomacy, which, if I have understood correctly, will organise an economic mission with the Regions. It is very important to do so and to find the niches in which we can further strengthen our ties with the United Kingdom. I wish you and your colleagues from the federated entities every success. Madam President, I wish to turn my questions Nos 55011787C and 55011788C into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u29	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u30	Madam Secretary, I understand that you have not been able to answer all the questions I asked à la minute. Maybe those answers can still be delivered to me afterwards? You referred to non-tariff barriers and rules of origin. It is indeed very important that clear agreements are made on this issue. It is also to be expected that the problems will only increase, not only because there has been a lot of imports and exports just before the Christmas holidays, but also because, unfortunately, it is to be expected that British and continental legislation on sanitary and phytosanitary matters, among other things, will continue to fall apart. You did not go into more detail about the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. I understand from Prime Minister De Croo that this will be discussed in a partnership council. However, I have no idea which partnership council it will be about. Is there also any idea of the decisions that will be taken there? I have already received questions about this from several professional organisations. It would therefore be useful to be able to obtain more information. Finally, with regard to relations with the United Kingdom in the field of foreign policy, it is indeed very important that Belgium should take steps. The United Kingdom is an island, not a boat. So it stays there. It is very important in geopolitical and geostrategic terms and, of course, also as a trading partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this agreement largely meets our priorities and that it will be the future basis for our relations with the United Kingdom, which nevertheless remain to be defined. It's a new chapter, as you said, with a lot of potential. This potential remains to be defined. Perhaps, in fact, the next economic mission will be revealing in this respect. In addition, Brexit will generate significant costs on both sides of the border. Of course they will have to be evaluated day after day, which is why I have called for constant monitoring of the effects of Brexit in the opinion committee responsible for European affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u32	Madam Minister, according to 80 organizations of Belgian, Haitian, French, Canadian, Spanish, German and Beninese civil society, as well as 300 citizens, the situation in Haiti has significantly worsened in two years and is characterized mainly by the impoverishment and deterioration of the living conditions of Haitians, already precarious (59% of the population are in poverty), as well as by corruption, notably through the Petrocaribe scandal and the embezzlement of the fund of 1.5 billion euros destined for development projects. Add to this the proliferation, strengthening and convergence of armed gangs, which only reinforce the feeling of insecurity of the Haitian population. Between January and June 2020, the United Nations Integrated Office in Haiti identified 159 persons killed and 92 others injured, including children, as a result of gang-related violence. These gangs are said to have caused at least four massacres (the last of which was perpetrated in late August, early September), the deadliest of which was in La Saline, where at least 71 people were killed in November 2018. Finally, there would be no progress in investigations and no trial would be scheduled, which of course reinforces the feeling of impunity. A course has been taken in recent weeks with the assassination of the barrister of Port-au-Prince, Maître Monferrier Dorval, the massacre of Bel-Air - a popular district in the centre of Port-au-Prince - and the unconstitutional establishment of a Provisional Electoral Council to hasten the holding of elections and the reform of the Constitution, which the population does not want. Since July 2018, the Haitian population has been mobilizing against the impoverishment, corruption and authoritarianism it feels threatened with, despite the harsh responses of the government of Jovenel Moïse. Elected with 10% vote, ruling since January by decrees with a reduced legislative power to a third of the Senate, for lack of having organized parliamentary elections, Jovenel Moïse would also be implicated in the Petrocaribe scandal and the aforementioned massacres. Minister, what information do you have from our diplomatic posts on the spot? Do you have more precise information on the organisation of elections? Do you interact with your counterparts on these issues of impunity and security?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u33	My colleague, Belgium is following the situation in Haiti very closely. The information we receive from our post actually confirms your concern. Political instability is on the agenda: demonstrations, opposition demands, end of national dialogue, etc. The parliament remains obsolete and President Moses governs by decrees. This multidimensional crisis is compounded by a disturbing climate of insecurity, including the violence of armed gangs and the resurgence of kidnappings on the eve of sensitive electoral deadlines for the country. The only relative light in this difficult context, the pandemic has done less damage than expected in an already fragile country where the security situation is more concerned than the health situation. Information at this stage on the organization of elections remains vague and President Moses issued a decree announcing the formation of a provisional electoral council, recommending that not only elections be held, but also a referendum for the adoption of a new Constitution. On the other hand, civil society and the opposition criticize him because there is no consensus or consultation on the nine members of the Provisional Electoral Council. Moreover, the holding of a referendum on the new Constitution would paradoxically be unconstitutional. Civil society calls for the conditions for transparent elections to be put in place first. It remains very sensitive to what is sometimes perceived as an international interference in defining a political timetable for the country that only the Haitian population should decide. In our recent discussions with civil society, part of it would not value the organisation of elections per se, while for other stakeholders, elections are necessary to overcome the political impasse. I have not yet had an exchange with my counterparts at this stage on this specific issue, but our country has spoken very regularly on the Haitian issue in the EU working groups and in the UN Security Council. This was the case, in particular, when we spoke at the periodic debate on Haiti at the United Nations Security Council on 5 October, where Belgium highlighted this crucial issue of impunity and insecurity. The same is often the case in the various EU working groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u34	I thank the minister who shares the same concerns as we do. Last Friday, several hundred opponents expressed their will to see President Moses leave power. As you know, there is a debate about the date of the end of his term of office (7 February 2021 or 7 February 2022). The President's involvement in the violence against the country's population seems to be proven while this population has already been severely affected by endemic and structural poverty for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u35	Madam President, Madam Minister, last December, the Democratic Republic of Congo plunged into the political crisis, following the announcement by the Head of State of its end of the ruling coalition since January 2019. Tension rose sharply on 7 December, when members of the President's party attacked Parliament's furniture. Violent clashes followed the next day in the assembly itself, causing several injuries. Assemblée pro Kabila's president was removed from office. Modeste Bahati Lukwebo of the FCC, for his part, was appointed informant with a mission to last until the end of this month. On 9 December, the UN condemned this violence, believing that it constitutes, I quote, "an unacceptable violation of the rule of law and of Congolese institutions". The United Nations representative in the DRC, Leila Zerrougui, called "all representatives of political parties and their activists to calm and responsibleness" in order to resolve this crisis which, "if continued, could have a serious impact on the country's economic and security situation". In a joint communiqué, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Japan and South Korea called for "all parties to work in good faith and engage peacefully in the political process, avoiding any action that could generate violence or insecurity across the country." Belgium, for its part, reiterated its willingness to cooperate with the President and expressed its readiness to contribute to the implementation of the reforms presented. Madam Minister, first of all, have you had contact with the Congolese authorities since these events? Do you have more information about the current situation via, among other things, our embassy on site? In our relations with the DRC, and following your recent visit and that of our current Prime Minister, do you believe that Belgium has a concrete role to play in trying to ease these tensions? What will be our country's position in our relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo? Finally, in your opinion, the European Union must accompany the latter in the search for a peaceful solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u36	Madam Chair, Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u37	Madam Deputy Prime Minister in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, calling for justice and an end to impunity for those responsible for the wars, massacres and crimes that have marked the country's recent history can be dangerous. In this region, mainly in eastern DRC, still plagued by instability, dozens of Congolese and foreign armed groups (Rwandan, Ugandan, Burundian) continue to operate, kill, rape, loot and burn villages. Women are the first victims of such violence. Protected by Congolese police officers supported by elements of the United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, MONUSCO, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Dr. Mukwege, also called "the man who repairs women" victims of sexual violence, still said he feared for his life, but continued courageously to campaign for justice to be done. He called for the establishment of an international criminal court for the DRC to try those responsible for crimes committed since the 1980s. Could you then, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, answer those questions. What is the latest information you have about Dr. Mukwege's state of protection? Bearing in mind that the International Criminal Court of The Hague does not have jurisdiction over crimes committed before its establishment, what is Belgium's position with regard to the establishment of such an international criminal court for crimes committed in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u38	Madam President, I was not paying attention. All the questions have been asked?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u39	Yes, and Mr Flahaut is not present. It's happening fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u40	Yes, but that's good, because that will give me the opportunity to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u41	Following the continuing tensions within the government coalition in the DRC, and after consultation with several political leaders and civil society, President Tshisekedi announced on 6 December 2020 the end of the coalition with former President Kabila's Common Front for the Congo (CFC) and the search for a new parliamentary majority around a "sacred union" government. On December 10, 2020, a majority of nearly 300 deputies came to vote in Parliament to remove the Bureau of the National Assembly. This vote had a very symbolic meaning, as it was the first time that President Tshisekedi's Cape for Change (CACH) had been able to bring together an alternative majority to that of the CACH-FCC coalition. On December 31, 2020, Modeste Bahati, former minister and leader of the Alliance of Democratic Forces of the Congo and allies, was appointed informant. Its task is to convert the parliamentary majority gathered for the removal of the Bureau of the National Assembly into a stable majority leading to the formation of a government. The term of office is for a period of 30 days, renewable once. The current political process is clearly an internal matter for the DRC. It is therefore not for Belgium to comment on its modalities. Nevertheless, I hope that the DRC will soon be able to form a government united around the need to serve the interests of the people. In its contacts with the Congolese authorities, Belgium indicated its willingness to contribute to the implementation of the major reforms identified after the national consultations. We encourage all those involved to address this challenge in a peaceful manner and through dialogue around the agreed common objectives. At the same time, Belgium continues to insist on respect for the Constitution and democratic principles. That is also the position that Belgium is defending at European level. Belgium attaches great importance to the fight against impunity. I am pleased that President Tshisekedi has stated that he wants to make it one of his priorities. With regard to the mechanism to achieve this, there are several solutions. It is in the first place a responsibility of the Congolese authorities to choose the preferred path. The International Criminal Court is obviously a key instrument in the fight against impunity. I welcome the fact that, in 2016, the DRC incorporated the provisions of the Rome Statute into its domestic law, which provided the basis for good cooperation with that country. For serious crimes committed prior to the entry into force of its statute, the ICC is not competent and other avenues could be explored. On the other hand, of course, I strongly condemn the threats and intimidations against Dr. Mukwege, who is known to be doing a remarkable job. Following the fears expressed by the doctor, Belgium actively contributed last year to the security of the hospital in Panzi. I remember it perfectly because I myself intervened personally to ensure that the United Nations provided protection to Dr. Mukwege and his hospital. A security audit is planned in the near future. We will, of course, continue to monitor Dr. Mukwege's situation closely to ensure that the measures taken are sufficiently dissuasive and sustainable. Mr Cogolati, it seems to me better to wait for the outcome of the current political sequence in the DRC before deciding on its outcome. The next elections in the DRC are scheduled for 2023. If the Congolese authorities ask for our support for the organisation of these elections, Belgium will certainly consider this request in depth. With regard to the two agents of the Agency for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption, I would like to stress that they are not lent by Belgium to the Congolese authorities. The two people decided to take a position at the APLC in their own name, without having been delegated by a Belgian authority. When President Tshisekedi took office, he announced a series of reforms related to the fight against corruption, good governance and electoral reforms. The President believes that a new parliamentary majority will be better able to pursue these objectives. Mrs Van Hoof, the political debates are indeed raging high, which is understandable, but I have no indication that this will lead to massive violence in the short term. Belgium will continue to support all Congolese initiatives to promote good governance, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, the improvement of the business environment and the establishment of a competent and impartial administration and legal system to improve the living conditions of the Congolese people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u42	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We have close ties with the DRC, as is evident from your last visit to the DRC. We call for the rapid formation of a new government in Kinshasa, the first majority for change probably. Respect for the Constitution is fundamental to us. The reforms announced by President Tshisekedi cannot be implemented without a peaceful climate and also the support of the international community for this cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u43	Madam Minister, I think it is really important that we can affirm from Belgium our full support for the democratic transition process and the organisation of elections, not only at national but also at local and provincial level. We must also support the fight against impunity, corruption and violence in the eastern DRC.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u44	I would like to thank the minister for her response, and especially for the fact that she is continuing her continued attention to the ongoing protection of Dr. Mukwege with the information on a security audit. I once again plead that in bilateral relations with the Congo impunity in the eastern part of the Congo should not remain an established fact, but that the fairness of a fair trial should be emphasized for those who have been victims of such violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to express my best wishes for 2021. My question concerns the EU-Mercosur Convention. On 3 December, Uruguay's Foreign Minister came on a three-day trip to Europe to discuss the association agreement with several European bodies. You were the only national minister he had a meeting with. In a press release on behalf of Belgium, you expressed some concerns about the impact that the agreement could have on global sustainable development efforts and on the fight against global warming. I quote: Belgium continues to be very attentive to compliance with standards and balances in a wide range of areas (social, agriculture, etc.)." You also advocated enforceable provisions that strengthen the agreement when it enters into force. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. You have sent a number of concerns to Mr Bustilo. Does this mean that Belgium is joining countries such as the Netherlands, Austria and France? Did you send this message to him? Can you be more specific about these additional enforceable provisions that you have in mind, especially in view of the discussions we are currently having in this House? After all, hearings on the EU-Mercosur Association Agreement are scheduled for tomorrow. Are Mercosur countries, through their President, prepared to accept additional conditions? What was his reaction? What steps will be taken in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u46	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the free trade agreement that is on the move between the European Union and Mercosur countries. Our country has received a proposal from France, with additional conditions. The intention would be to add it as a declaration to the Convention in order to remove doubts among those Member States that do not see fit to approve the agreement. France would also have contacted a number of other European Member States in order to come up with a supported proposal that could then be submitted to the European Commission. The French proposal would lay down additional conditions and require guarantees from Mercosur countries around deforestation and sensitive agricultural sectors. Mr Reynaert has already referred to the hearings, which have shown that certain agricultural sectors could be negatively affected by that agreement. That is why I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is the appreciation the government gives to the French proposal? Do you agree with the text and would you like to participate in it? What possible clarifications or additional conditions do you think should be added to the proposal? What is the legal value of the text for the government? Do you think it is necessary, for example, to include the text as a binding protocol to the Convention? The FPS Economy has been analysing the impact of the agreement on our economic sectors for a long time. In the meantime, we have already seen a text on this and the analysis appears to be more positive. The government declaration promised that the analysis of the FPS would also be presented to Parliament. Will you come and explain this to the committee? Finally, the new President of the Council, Portugal, wishes to speed up the agreement. This is, of course, understood by historical links with the countries concerned. Do you think it is possible for the agreement to be approved during the Portuguese Presidency?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u47	Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mrs Reynaert, allow me first to outline the context of the agreement. Negotiations on the Association Agreement with four Mercosur countries, notably Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, the negotiating mandate of which dates back to 1997, were resumed in 2016 and are now stabilised. In June 2019 an agreement in principle was reached on the commercial aspects and in June 2020 on the political aspects. The Portuguese EU Presidency has made the EU-Mercosur Treaty a priority. The texts will be translated into the different languages of the European Union in the coming weeks. However, the European Commission is well aware of the many concerns that still exist about this agreement, including in Belgium. We know that the Commission has been working for several weeks on a series of initiatives to substantially strengthen the sustainable development component of the agreement. The agreement will therefore not be submitted to the European Council and the European Parliament for final approval until the Commission considers that it has achieved significant results in the fight against deforestation and climate change. What you are asking, Mrs Van Bossuyt, is about a French document. The Foreign Affairs Services have indeed received a confidential working document from the French authorities on the EU-Mercosur Convention. However, as long as the French authorities do not submit this document officially, there is no French document. At a coordination meeting of the DG last week, however, it was found that the Federal Government and the Länder were willing not to stand on the sidelines. Our country wants to weigh in on the informal talks that are taking place. How can we complement the EU-Mercosur Treaty? I would like to thank our stakeholders for their openness. These are, first and foremost, elements such as the fight against deforestation and respect for the implementation of the Paris climate agreement. It is clear that the bar for Belgium is high. As I mentioned earlier in this House, the enforceability of the clause on sustainability in trade agreements is very important for this government. A mere political declaration is not enough. We will ask for enforceability during the informal talks with other EU Member States and the European Commission. Finally, I would like to point out that Belgium, of course, also pays attention to other points, such as the application of the precautionary principle and the respect of labour standards in the agricultural sector in Mercosur countries. The wish list is long. Ultimately, it will have to be assessed whether the additional provisions adequately respond to the objections raised to the EU-Mercosur trade agreement, including in this committee. My priority is to consult on the additional provisions in the coming weeks. As always, our motto is: the quality of the trade agreement is on the agenda. In a few weeks' time, I will be happy to give a new state of play in this committee on the informal talks. As far as the impact study of the FPS Economy is concerned, I can make it brief. This is now available on the website of the FPS Economy. I understand that you will be presented with this study in the first place tomorrow. Mrs Reynaert, during my discussion with Minister Butillo I briefed him on the content of the federal government agreement, and in particular on the importance we attach to the inclusion of binding and enforceable social standards in trade agreements. I have indicated that the Belgian position on the association agreement between the EU and Mercosur countries has not yet been defined. Indeed, there is no agreement on this agreement between the various levels of policy concerned in Belgium. Belgium will not give its official opinion until the date on which the agreement is submitted to the Council for approval. I also underline the sensitivities that exist in Belgium about the impact that the agreement could have on sustainable development and concerns about the cumulative impact of trade agreements on the agricultural sector. It is important that binding agreements are made to ensure that the agreement does not lead to an increase in imported deforestation. They should also ensure that the parties to the agreement effectively fulfil their obligation under the Paris Climate Agreement. Like other European countries, Belgium has repeatedly indicated the concerns and sensitivities that exist in our country about the association agreement. The European Commission has recently started discussions with Mercosur countries to strengthen the provisions on trade and sustainable development, including through autonomous legislative instruments. During our conversation, my partner committed himself to helping to strengthen the sustainable development component by means of an additional protocol. It also confirms that Brazil would be open to such an approach. The FPS Foreign Affairs Services organised a DG on this agreement last week. It was then decided that Belgium would remain in contact with other EU Member States that share our concerns in the coming weeks, in order to take a common position on the European Commission if possible. In this way, I hope that Belgium will be able to weigh constructively on the debate prior to the presentation of the Association Agreement to the Council of the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. I am particularly pleased to hear that our country will no longer stand on the sidelines for trade policy. This represents a major step forward for our country in the field of trade policy. We take a very clear position on what conditions we want to define this trade policy. I had tabled a resolution in this committee which we are now discussing. The terms of the resolution were, in our view, workable. I am pleased to hear that this will also be included, especially with the important condition of the enforceability of the sustainable development chapter, in the position of Belgium as a whole. I am also pleased that several partners around the table have agreed to this. It is very important to have a protocol that can be added to the agreement without breaking the agreement. In this way, this chapter can be implemented and made enforceable, if necessary. I am therefore very pleased to hear that Belgium will also seek other partners at European level to take a common position on this matter with regard to the European institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is the first time I have heard that an existing document does not exist. That might be a new term. I am particularly pleased to hear that you are looking for solutions to ensure that we do not throw the child away with the bath water. That is our greatest concern. With regard to the EU-Mercosur agreement, you will no doubt know that we have a very open economy. The agreement offers many advantages, which we heard last week. I have no doubt that we will hear that again at the hearing tomorrow. However, as I pointed out, there are concerns that we need to bear in mind. However, as I said, they must not lead us to throw away the baby with the bath water. It is therefore a good thing that we look at how the agreement can be improved and also to find partners at European level. My question to you is to look not only to the South but also to the North when looking for partners. After all, the Netherlands also has concerns. I therefore ask you not only to look to the South, but also to the North and to countries such as the Netherlands. I would also very much like to comment on your proposal that you should come to the committee in a few weeks' time to give an update on the discussions you will have with your colleagues on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u50	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you refer to the debate on strategic autonomy and the attitude of a number of EU Member States, including France. I think it is thanks, among other things, to France that the issue has been so prominent on the agenda over the last few months. I note that, at the meetings of the European Council of 1 and 2 October 2020, France clearly endorsed the need to achieve strategic autonomy while maintaining an open economy, which makes it possible to identify the vulnerabilities to the most sensitive industrial ecosystems resulting from dependence on third countries. At the same time, the Heads of State or Government asked the Commission to propose measures to reduce this dependence, including by diversifying production and supply chains, providing strategic stocks and promoting production and investment in Europe. The conclusion adopted thus underlines the importance of maintaining an open economy, with particular reference to the trade agenda of the European Union and its partners. In my view, such an objective demonstrates what strategic autonomy is all about, but it goes without saying that it can be further refined and extended in the coming months. A start was made, for example, at the informal lunch of the Foreign Affairs Council on 7 December 2020, from a more specific point of view of the common foreign and security policy. Such discussions show that European strategic autonomy has many facets. For Belgium, strategic autonomy is indeed an open and ambitious concept aimed at strengthening European competitiveness, but it must not give rise to any form of protectionism. Attention should also be paid to strengthening European value chains and diversifying the strategic supply chain. Each Member State is free to determine its own industrial ecosystem and/or strategic value chains, of which health is a natural component, but other areas have also been identified, including defence industry, space, digitisation, energy and critical raw materials. The aim is to create new players capable of competing at global level, with the active participation of our SMEs in that cluster, and with respect for the rules of a level playing field in the internal market. The support for strategic autonomy was also stressed in the government's agreement. Of course, we must also bear in mind what is happening outside the EU. On the external front, encouraging international trade rules to create more balanced conditions and strengthening European exports and imports are integral elements of open strategic autonomy. The European Union must better manage its negotiations and dependence on the rest of the world, thus ensuring a level playing field in all its dimensions. In this context, Belgium advocates a balanced but efficient use of trade defence instruments and a screening of foreign direct investment. With an open economy and strong industrial interests, Belgium has much to gain from a Europe that defends its interests and those of its Member States and wants to build bridges to achieve a new European consensus on the concept of strategic autonomy. The question of strategic autonomy will continue to be regularly addressed in different sectors of the Council and Belgium will continue to participate actively in the discussions. You will notice the length of my answer that I take the question of strategic autonomy very seriously. I believe that this should be an important part of our future policy, because that is how we take our future into our own hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u51	Thank you for your comprehensive answer and for the importance you attach to strategic autonomy. You do say that countries are free to do whatever they want. When it is found that France is spending EUR 1 billion on the strategic strengthening of its businesses, we can also immediately see the potential impact on the competitiveness of our companies. The level playing field you mentioned is also important. I very much welcome your statement on open strategic autonomy. Despite its importance, it must not give rise to new forms of protectionism. That should not be an excuse for some countries to take protectionist measures. I hope that in future you will always talk about open strategic autonomy and not about strategic autonomy. The Flemish government is already doing that; it would be nice if we could also carry that image out from Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u52	Madam Secretary, on 4 December 2020 14-year-old Ali Ayman Abu-Alayya in the Palestinian village al-Mughayyir in the occupied West Bank was struck in the abdomen by a bullet fired by the Israeli army. He died of his injury at the Palestinian Medical Centre in Ramallah. He was present while protesting against the illegal Israeli occupation. Four other Palestinian civilians were injured by Israeli bullets. Ali is the sixth Palestinian child killed by the Israeli occupying forces in the occupied West Bank in 2020. On 25 October 2020, the teenager Amer Snobar also died from his injuries in the same hospital. Witnesses reported that Israeli soldiers killed that boy by repeated blows with gun barrels. Between 1 November 2019 and 31 October 2020, according to United Nations human rights monitors 1,048 Palestinian children were injured by Israeli security forces in occupied Palestinian territory. Since 2013, even 155 Palestinian children have been killed by Israeli security forces. However, children, even under international law, enjoy special protection. This is also borne out by experts from the UN Human Rights Council. Each of these deceased children therefore raises serious concerns about Israel's compliance with its solemn human rights and humanitarian law obligations as occupying forces. Israeli security forces also announced that they would investigate the murder of Abu-Alayya, but human rights experts note that investigations by the Israeli armed forces into deadly shootings on Palestinians by their soldiers themselves do not result in an appropriate accountability. The low level of civil liability for the murder of so many children by the Israeli security forces is unworthy of a country, certainly a country that considers itself to be a rule of law. Those are not my words, but it is the conclusion of the two human rights experts Michael Lynk and Agnès Callamard, special rapporteurs of the UN Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u53	Madam Secretary, on 10 December, the day of human rights, you sent a clear message to the world in a tweet on the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs' account: "When anyone's human rights are denied, everyone's rights are undermined. So I will stand up." It is a very voluntaristic tweet, which we can certainly support. Unfortunately, we have not found any trace of the flagrant war crimes that are still taking place in the occupied West Bank, despite the fact that both the UN and the EU have already explicitly condemned this crime. That's why I'm wondering if you'll also convict this crime. What steps have you taken as Minister or are you going to take to make it clear to the Israeli occupying forces that Belgium does not accept these crimes? What impact will you have on our diplomatic and economic relations with Israel? Thank you for your answers. And have a happy birthday. Of course, I can't stay behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u54	Colleagues, I would like to point out that there is a counter here. I'm not that strict and strict, but you've spoken for over a minute too long. Try to stay within two minutes. You spoke for three and a half minutes. That way we can't move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u55	Madam President, since this is the first time that I have participated in this committee since the beginning of the year, I would like to express my best wishes to you and to the services of the committee. Minister, I also wish you a happy birthday. Minister, I have tabled two questions that have been attached. They address the situation of children in occupied Palestine. My colleague has already addressed the drama of Ali Abu Alayya. So I will not go back to the circumstances of this tragedy. I will only recall that in horror there is still horror, since the Haaretz newspaper, which is fortunately read and written by Israeli progressives, showed images of the soldier who had fired who seemed to be congratulating with this shot. It shows the horror of an occupation. Minister, it seems an investigation will take place. Will Belgium support an independent investigation, as has been suggested, since unfortunately there is a question of the objectivity of the Israeli authorities in their investigations? I am thinking in particular of the investigation that took place following the attack on Gaza. I would also like to have your opinion on this. I've had the opportunity to go there several times. I have seen how completely lost children in the occupied territories are. According to UNICEF, one in two children – it's horrible – has no desire for life in the occupied territories of Gaza and the West Bank. My question concerns, in particular, children imprisoned in the Israeli military system. Indeed, as you know, it is the military courts that judge Palestinian children arrested. Since 2000, an estimated 13,000 Palestinian children have been arrested, interrogated, prosecuted and imprisoned in the Israeli military system. These children, despite Israel's ratification of the International Convention on Human Rights in 1991, are subjected to serious and systematic violations of their human rights. Between 2013 and 2018, according to Defense for Children International Palestine – which you or your predecessor has invited to the UN, which I thank you for – out of 739 children in detention, 73 per cent were physically abused after their arrest, 64 per cent were verbally abused, humiliated or intimidated, 95 per cent had their hands tied, 86 per cent were blindfolded, 96 per cent were questioned without the presence of a family member, 49 per cent were arrested at home in the middle of the night, 20 per cent were kept in positions of stress. There could be more examples of Israeli authorities not complying with the conventions signed. Since the end of August, 153 Palestinian children have been detained in Israeli prisons, of which 47 per cent are in pre-trial detention. The previous Government had committed itself to promoting the rights of children in its international policy, particularly children in armed conflict. It was Mr. Goffin's job. You recalled in your policy note that you intend to "continue this commitment on the basis of the expertise gained". And I sincerely thank you for that. Therefore, Madam Minister, what actions does this government intend to take to defend the rights of Palestinian children arrested, prosecuted and detained in the Israeli prison and military system?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u56	Thank you, Mr De Vuyst:I will stand up for your rights too, even though I often do not share your opinion. But what's left is assured, when it comes to kids, we're on the same page. Mr Moutquin, I welcome you to our committee. It is my pleasure to answer for the first time. With regard to the questions on the death of Ali Abu-Alayya, it goes without saying that Belgium attaches particular importance to respect for children's rights in armed conflicts, even outside armed conflicts. As chairman of the Working Party on Children in Poor Conflicts of the UN Security Council, Belgium has put the protection of children in various armed conflicts on the Security Council's agenda for the last two years. During this mandate, Belgium also consistently raised the impact of this conflict on children in its interventions on the Middle East peace process. Belgium drew attention to this again in the Security Council during the briefing on 21 December 2020 on Resolution 2334. That was our last participation in the briefing on the Middle East peace process as a member of the UN Security Council. It is clear that children should never be the target of violence or be exposed to or encouraged to participate in the risk of violence. During the two years in the Security Council, Belgium has made accountability for violations of international humanitarian and human rights law one of its priorities. I'm reading "incident" here, but I'm going to make it clear that it's more than just an incident. It is for this reason that you hear me looking for my words: it is indeed a drama. Note for later: this is not an incident, but a tragedy! That is no exception. In-depth and transparent investigations must be carried out. The authors must be put before their responsibilities. It is essential that victims and their families are well informed about the progress of investigations and their results. Finally, with regard to the rights of Palestinian children in the Israeli prison system, I also share your concern. Belgium endorses the concerns expressed by several United Nations bodies that called for the immediate release of Palestinian children detained in Israel. As such, our country called for their release during its intervention in the Security Council on 23 April 2020. We will, of course, continue our diplomatic efforts in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u57	Madam Minister, once again it is a little lip service: saying that you are concerned, that you condemn and will accept it. If we look at the letter of the coalition agreement, it says that certain actions by Israel will no longer be accepted, especially if they violate international law and pursue their illegal settlement policy. There will then be a reaction, which can also be done under international law. A man who's taken can defend himself. Then there are also children who are the victims. It is not the only case, as I have just mentioned. Given all these facts, I think you will also have to translate your conviction into words into a conviction in deeds. International law is one and indivisible. Human rights are universal. That is why I would urge you to act decisively on your conscious tweet. It's a good tweet. We certainly support it, but we see that, unfortunately, in the field, this does not lead to proportionate countermeasures, as is literally stated in the coalition agreement. In fact, it has already been watered down in the policy paper. On the ground, I cannot get rid of the impression that unfortunately it does not seem to be a priority either. After all, there has not even been any response to this incident, this tragedy, but also to the bombing of a rehabilitation centre and hospital in the Gaza Strip and to bombing in Damascus on Christmas Eve. We see that Israel continues very assertively and aggressively with the policy of colonisation and apartheid. I'll have a question about that later. Unfortunately, we see that our country does not have the political courage to put an end to this too. I would therefore ask you once again to translate your words into action, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that these are just words, but I do not agree because I believe that this Parliament has not always had the brave words it needed to name things. Government agreements have not always contained phrases and programme points as clear as what we stand for together. Thank you for your words, which will have to be followed by concrete actions. I must also thank you for naming this tragedy as a tragedy, because the region has had its share of dramas throughout its history. I am not one of those who put equidistant in the reading of the Israeli occupation, I think rather that there is an occupier and an occupied. On the other hand, there are tragedies on both sides, and the region has experienced too many tragedies. I apologize for not following your comments carefully on Twitter, but I am very pleased with your commitment to human rights. In my view, there is no varying geometry in respect of human rights, whether it is with regard to children in Gaza, Uighur children, children in the Great Lakes or children elsewhere. Thank you, and I can only call you to action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u59	Mrs Reynaert, the Belgian candidacy to host the European Cybersecurity Competence Centre has objectively achieved very good results on all the criteria, when we look at the assessment and the proposed offer by the European Commission. After the first round of votes, Belgium was one of the two remaining candidates and I would like to thank the partners who supported us for that. It is true that a majority of 15 out of 27 countries have chosen to support the candidacy of Bucharest, our opponent in the second ballot. Several Member States claimed that no EU agencies or bodies have yet been established in Romania. These include Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and Cyprus, alongside Romania itself. This solidarity was expressed in an interpretative statement. We must also remember that the selection procedure for a seat is part of the wider context of the selection procedure for all seats. Belgium understands the desire of some Member States to achieve a certain degree of decentralisation and we are not opposed to that. On the contrary, in 2019, for example, we supported Bratislava for the seat of the European Labour Authority. However, we believe in the added value of cybersecurity ecosystems. The synergies that may result from this are in the general interest of the European Union. It was in that precise framework that Belgium had applied for membership. It is also within that framework that we will assess what support we could give to other candidate processes in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u60	Madam Minister, in this dossier we did indeed have the opportunity to create a unique ecosystem in the field of cyber security, because Belgium already houses the cybersecurity centres of NATO and ESA. So it is a pity that this did not work. I do believe, however, that there was good cooperation in this dossier between the Brussels-Capital Region and the federal government, where everyone has tried to get the best out of it. Unfortunately, that was just not enough. We need to think more strategically about the Belgian seat policy in the future. It will also be useful for the Brussels-Capital Region, the federal government and Brussels as capitals to work even more closely together. I look forward to further steps being taken on this. I know that Brussels is already working on this itself and I hope that the federal government will be proactive in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u61	Minister, between 15 and 19 November 2020, three officials of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights (EIPR) were arrested in Cairo and Dahab, following unsubstantiated accusations of terrorism, among others. The detentions of Mohamed Basheer, Karim Ennarah and Gasser Abdel-Razek followed a meeting with a delegation of diplomats, including the ambassadors of France and Germany, on 3 November. Thanks to strong international pressure and the mobilization of many NGOs, they were finally released on 3 December. However, there can be no question of victory: - because the investigation against them is ongoing; - because, on 6 December, the day before President Abdel Fattah al-Sissi's visit to Paris, an Egyptian court confirmed the prosecutor's decision to freeze the personal assets of these EIPR leaders; - because, above all, these arrests are only the last illustration of the risks faced by political opponents in this country. More than 60,000 prisoners of conscience are currently being held in Egyptian prisons. I have already mentioned here the role played by the Office of the Attorney General of State Security, which has become the major instrument of repression of power. From about 529 in 2013, the number of prosecutions initiated by the office increased to 1,739 in 2018, according to data from a report published last year by Amnesty International. Other figures recently delivered by the organization relate to executions and tell us that 57 individuals were killed by the authorities for the months of October and November alone, which is twice what was recorded for 2019 as a whole. [[The situation is therefore very serious!]] Minister, what information do you have from our diplomatic representation on the spot? What initiatives does Belgium intend to take, within the European and/or UN framework, in the face of this situation which is becoming dramatic and which is taking place in general indifference?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u62	My colleague, I share your concern about the human rights situation in Egypt following the report on increasing restrictions on fundamental freedoms and democratic space and following the arrest of three EIPR collaborators last month. The Belgian ambassador to Egypt and his European colleagues denounced the detention. This was done through a joint letter and diplomatic approach. We took note of their release in December, which for us is obvious. We now hope that they will not be prosecuted, as the freedom of expression and assembly of human rights defenders is of great importance. Our diplomatic representation on the ground maintains contacts with representatives of civil society and reports on developments in the human rights situation in general. The promotion and protection of human rights is a priority of Belgian and European foreign policy, of which the protection of human rights defenders is an integral part. These defenders play an indispensable role in the promotion of human rights and democratization. Their activities have gained recognition over the years but, at the same time, they are increasingly being attacked, and their rights are being violated. It is therefore essential to recognise and support their work. This is why Belgium is contributing to the implementation of the EU guidelines on human rights defenders. In the context of relations between the European Union and Egypt, Belgium will ensure that the issue of human rights remains a priority. Human rights in Egypt will also be on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council on 25 January, in which I will participate. The EU-Egypt Association Council, established on the basis of the Association Agreement in force since 2004 and which meets at regular intervals, is an appropriate format for addressing this issue with Egypt. Within the United Nations Human Rights Council and the Third Committee of the General Assembly, Belgium supports not only the initiatives that promote the security and work of human rights defenders, but also the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on their situation. At the end of September 2020, we made a joint statement on behalf of the Benelux in the context of the 45th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, during an interactive dialogue on the report of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on these reprisals. Belgium also recommended, inter alia, that Egypt repeal all laws and policies that restrict the rights and activities of human rights defenders during the last universal periodic review of Egypt. It goes without saying that Belgian diplomacy will continue to work for the release of prisoners of conscience throughout the world, including (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers. The situation in Egypt is dramatic, and I would like to refer to two users of the Tik Tok network, who have recently been sentenced to two years in prison for broadcasting videos deemed indecent. Their initiative was to raise funds for a hospital for children with cancer. I would also like to quote Mr. Bahey el-Din Hassan, director of the Cairo Institute for the Study of Human Rights, who published a carte blanche in the newspaper Le Monde. He says: "Never in the history of modern Egypt have there been as many lawyers, human rights activists, trade unionists arrested for exercising their fundamental rights, whether it be the expression of an opinion, participation in a peaceful meeting or demonstration, or simply the exercise of their profession as a lawyer, journalist or doctor. (...) Mass executions, enforced disappearances and widespread torture are the only tools used by the regime to interact with the Egyptians." It concludes with a comparison between the current regime in Egypt and that of Bashar al-Assad in Syria or Omar al-Bashir in Sudan. I therefore believe that we must feel extremely concerned about the events that are taking place there. I feel a warming of relations between Egypt and one of our important neighbours, France, not to mention it (I am referring to the way in which Mr Sissi was welcomed by President Macron a few weeks ago). We must remain vigilant on the issue of human rights in Egypt because the situation is grave.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u64	•Did you question the Israeli authorities on this matter? Has the issue of administrative detentions and the reduction of civic space been addressed recently in the bilateral, European or United Nations context? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u65	Madam Chair, I refer to the written text of my three questions that have been attached. I do not question the work of the committee secretariat, which had to do so for the sake of efficiency. On the other hand, with so many themes grouped into a single question, one may not get all the answers one hopes for. I will therefore allow myself, Madam Minister, to refer you written questions if certain elements were not to be found in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u66	Thank you for your answers to these questions. Several renowned Israeli NGOs such as Yesh Din and Breaking The Silence have announced that they recognize the legal character of apartheid, since international law defines this concept not only in view of the old situation in South Africa, but also by designating the establishment of a structural legal and political system differentiated according to a "ethnicity". According to these organizations, the Israeli system can indeed be described as apartheid. This is what the CNCD, 11.11.11 and others have been saying for years. Minister, what opinion do you have on this qualification? What do you think about the Israeli army's expropriation of certain buildings and wells in Zone C, on which different rights are exercised? Do you share this observation of apartheid and therefore the conclusions of the Israeli NGOs? I also asked you about the threats of forced eviction of Palestinians from East Jerusalem. Finally, I would like to hear your views on vaccination in the occupied Palestinian territories. Over the past few weeks, the good figures of the Israeli State on this subject have been praised. We know that his Prime Minister had taken a risk, as he had negotiated contracts in June. Honestly, I'm rather satisfied that my government didn't play with fire, while the tests were still in progress. On the other hand, it is known that the prices of vaccines were much higher - but either. My question concerns obligations under international law. Under the Geneva Convention, Israel must provide medical and health assistance to the populations it occupies. In this context, the Israeli Government has an obligation to organize the Palestinian vaccination campaign. However, this is not the case at all, as it is known that the immunization figures for Israeli citizens and Palestinians living under occupation differ significantly. Minister, do you confirm that the Israeli government is bound by international law to include the Palestinian inhabitants of the territories it occupies in its vaccination campaign? If so, do you intend to remind the Israeli authorities of their legal obligations with regard to vaccination against covid in the territories they control? What is Belgium doing to ensure that no one is excluded from health care and the possibility of being vaccinated because of who they are or where they live in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u67	Israel is currently praised in the media for accelerating vaccination of its population, reportedly because Israel pays up to three times more for the vaccines than the United States or Europe. Unfortunately, what is often not reflected in the coverage is that this vaccination often takes place in an openly racist way. In the West Bank, for example, illegal settlers were vaccinated, but not the Palestinian population. Under international law, however, Israel as an occupier is also responsible for the health and well-being of the Palestinian population. This also applies to the Palestinians in Gaza, who have been subjected to an illegal and brutal blockade since 2007 and who have been regularly alarmed by Israeli bombings. On 26 December 2020 another children's hospital and rehabilitation centre were hit by an Israeli bombardment. Of course, the same blockade and the bombing also cause a permanent shortage of clean water and electricity in Gaza. This makes it all the more unacceptable for Israel to maintain the anti-Palestinian apartheid system even during a global pandemic, which will inevitably lead to unnecessary deaths. Madam Minister, does the new Belgian government intend to take a clear position on Israel's discriminatory vaccination policy and demand Israel to assume its responsibility, including as an occupying force, for the well-being of the occupied population? Does Belgium intend to raise this issue at European level and call for a common condemnation by the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u68	Minister, last November, a CNCD report used the word "apartheid" to describe not only the systematic but also systemic nature of Israel's discrimination against Palestinian civilians. This was an additional illustration of a reality. More and more NGOs, not less, are no longer reluctant to use this term. Moreover, on 12 January, the reflection on this subject was enriched by an unprecedented position. For the first time, the Israeli Jewish human rights organisation B'Tselem adopted this term in a report, in order to define the policy practiced by the Hebrew state "from the banks of the Jordan to the Mediterranean Sea". In particular, it considers that the usual legal distinction between the situation in Israel and that experienced by the inhabitants of the territories is no longer justified after more than fifty years of military occupation, thus referring to the concept of de facto annexation. This position is part of an awareness that, even in Israel, questions are increasing. Thus, in July 2020, lawyer Michael Sfard, in a legal analysis published on behalf of the NGO Yesh Din, also concluded that there was a situation of apartheid. Madam Minister, let me ask you whether there is any discussion at Belgian level on this point. In addition, have discussions already taken place or are there any plans to do so within the European framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u69	Madam Minister, my colleagues have already outlined the problem. It does indeed seem, however cynical it may be, that even the vaccines against corona are being used as a weapon in Israel's occupation policy. However, Article 56 of the Fourth Geneva Convention imposes an obligation on Israel to ensure public health in the occupied territory as an occupying power. That's what's needed. At the beginning of January, 160,000 infections were counted among the Palestinians in the occupied territories. Madam Secretary, what is your view on this? What diplomatic initiatives are possible, both from Belgium and from Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u70	Like all EU Member States, Belgium has seen the situation in the Palestinian territories as an occupation since June 1967. Human rights violations are considered by the lens of international law, in particular international humanitarian law and relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In this context, Belgium consistently asks the Israeli authorities to respect international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law. We are well aware that a number of civil society organizations are analysing the current situation in the Palestinian territory under the 1973 United Nations Convention to Eliminate and Punish the Crime of Apartheid and under the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. My services, as well as our Consulate General in Jerusalem, have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue on several occasions with Belgian, Palestinian and Israeli civil society organizations. A briefing on the subject was organised on 14 January by the Israeli NGO B'Tselem in which several representatives of the SPF Foreign Affairs participated. I will follow closely the legal debates on this issue. There was no discussion of the B'Tselem report at EU level. Mr Ben Achour, in the straight line of what I have just said in response to Mrs Van Hoof's question, I can confirm that I attach the utmost importance to respect for the human rights of Palestinians. We have addressed on several occasions the issue of administrative detentions and the reduction of civic space in the Security Council. I will share my concerns on this subject in my future discussions with my Israeli interlocutors. Finally, in response to questions from Mr. Moutquin and Mr. Ben Achour on the threats of forced evictions of Palestinians in East Jerusalem, you rightly note that our Consulate-General has been particularly active in this matter by visiting the targeted families and condemning these forced evictions and transfers. Belgium considers, together with the European Union, that these evictions participate in the Israeli government's settlement policy in the same way as the demolitions and confiscations of Palestinian structures in East Jerusalem, around the city and in other sensitive areas, including in Area C. You also know that, as a lessor of the West Bank Protection Consortium, Belgium is committed to the communities concerned. The West Bank Protection Consortium, of course, concerns Area C, but that is the same problem. Measures are illegal under international law. Belgium joined the efforts of the representatives of the European Union, the Member States and the United Nations fora. In the Security Council, the reminder of international law and the denunciation of settlement policy were the core of each of our monthly interventions on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. These messages are also addressed directly to the Israeli authorities through the efforts of our ambassador in Tel Aviv and through contacts in Brussels with the Israeli ambassador, including on the situation in Jerusalem. In reply to your questions on what you call medical apartheid in the occupied Palestinian territories, I can confirm that there are intense talks between the EU and the Member States, including Belgium, on how we can approach the vaccination of the Palestinian population against COVID-19. The question of Israel's responsibility as an occupying force is rightly raised on the basis of international humanitarian law. Israel must ensure the well-being and health of the population under occupation. However, under the 1995 Oslo Interim Agreement, public health, including vaccination, is granted to the Palestinian Authority pursuant to Article 17 of Annex III. If the Palestinian Authority were not able to supply the population with vaccines, Israel would be responsible. The demand is more acute for zone C of the West Bank, but also for the Gaza Strip as a result of the blockade. The international community's efforts are currently aimed at supporting the Palestinian Authority in the framework of public health competences as part of the Oslo Agreements. The EU and Member States shall cooperate with the Palestinian Ministry of Health and the United Nations to assist the Palestinian Authority in launching a vaccination campaign as soon as possible. With regard to the provision of covid vaccines to third countries, Belgium has at this stage chosen to do so via multilateral channels by contributing €4 million in 2021 through development cooperation to the WHO and Gavi Covax Initiative, the Alliance for Vaccines. This Covax initiative works with governments and pharmaceutical companies to ensure that covid-19 vaccines are also available in low- and middle-income countries and economies. The West Bank and Gaza are included under this name in the list of economies eligible for this initiative. In a first phase, 20 per cent of all covid-19 vaccines for Palestine will be free. Seniors and health care staff will be able to receive doses of vaccine under this multilateral facility from April onwards. In a second phase, the 40% additional vaccines can be purchased at cost. In order to cover the remaining 40% of vaccines not covered by the Covax Facility, the Palestinian Authority has started discussions with several pharmaceutical companies, including AstraZeneca. Some of our European partners are planning to provide direct financial assistance to the Palestinian Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u71	Madam Minister, thank you. As a reply, I'm going to quote Albert Camus, who said, "To name things wrong is to add to the misfortune of the world." But you know that the origin of this quotation is disputed. So I'm going to allow myself another quote from Camus, which is proven. In Rebelled Man, he says: "The logic of revolt is to strive for clear language so as not to thicken the universal lie." It is precisely because the situation in the Palestinian territories revolts deeply that we think it is high time to use clear language, to name things well. We will then see, when we have dared to have this clear language, that the transition to action will come immediately, very naturally, because that is what we need. The situation there is changing very quickly and is deteriorating at high speed V. I have the impression that the position of Europeans is changing a little too slowly, at least not at the rate of deterioration of the situation on the spot. All we expect now is that we can weigh our diplomatic weight to change things in Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u72	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. With regard to East Jerusalem, I am very pleased that you recalled that East Jerusalem has also been occupied under international law since 1967. I don't know if you've had the opportunity to go there, but we actually see that we're no longer in an occupation but in an annexation, especially in the Silouan neighbourhood that borders the old city of Jerusalem. It can be seen that settlers, house by house, nibble on land in neighbourhoods that are supposed to be Palestinian. I recall that a Palestinian in Jerusalem does not have the right to raise a Palestinian flag and does not have the right to assert his culture in what is his country, in accordance with international law. As far as immunization is concerned, I am also very pleased that you recognize the responsibility of the Israeli government, as it is understood in Israeli diplomacy that the Oslo accords provided for the Palestinians themselves to deal with the issue of health. However, the Oslo agreements were five years in duration, and I therefore encourage you to remind your Israeli counterparts of the terms of the Oslo agreements, particularly those that plan to release and leave all Palestinian territories within five years of the signing of the agreements. As far as apartheid is concerned, we have talked about naming things in the previous debate. I think it is important to have legal debates, but also to focus on naming things. I don't think it will change much in the lives of the Palestinians that we call things differently on our side. On the other hand, what may finally change will be the priority given to our actions over an injustice that has persisted for so many years. You said that, for the time being, there was no ongoing legal debate at European level. Perhaps I encourage you to launch them at the Belgian level. We have lawyers in Belgium who have worked on the issue of apartheid in Israel. I am thinking in particular of François Dubuisson, a professor at the ULB, who has a very interesting expertise on the issue. Belgium could launch this legal analysis in a very objective and contradictory way and, why not, bring it to the European level. I think this can be interesting. However, I would like to recall that in one week, 947 new housing units were granted by the Israeli government in the settlements. There is always the idea of a two-State solution, the one that international law defends. I think we have to name and confess: if we continue the policy of colonization of laissez-faire, there will be no State to recognize in a few years' time. You have to have it in mind. You have everything in the government agreement for a courageous and effective policy, especially in terms of differentiation. I know we've already made progress on this, but I think we need to take another step. We have done so for Crimea; we should be able to do so for Israeli settlements that are once again illegal under international law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You have listed all the initiatives you have already taken or are about to take, the dialogues you have started and the support you want to give together with the international community to ensure that healthcare is guaranteed in Gaza. I've heard the colleagues. There is once again indignation and a charge and we want to call the State of Israel to account, but I think we are following the facts again. The state of Isräel is not impressed. I think we should look beyond just a policy of differentiation with regard to settlements. When we see how the apartheid regime in South Africa has been brought to its knees, it is because the international community has said at some point 'to here and no further', it cannot go on. The international community has taken economic sanctions and has also announced a boycott at some point. Nelson Mandela is considered the icon of the fight against racism and apartheid. We all admire the course he has taken and we admire what he stands for, but we cannot, on the one hand, admire what he has meant for the fight against apartheid and, on the other hand, allow a state to still apply it today. Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite the World Health Organisation's request, Israel has refused to vaccinate Palestinian medical personnel. Israel refuses to vaccinate health workers despite the surpluses of vaccines that the country has. You and I know, and it was confirmed by the Israeli human rights organisation B'Tselem, which considers Israel to be an apartheid state, that there are separate schools, separate roads - bypass roads - and illegal settlements where only Israeli citizens are allowed to live. The Palestinians living on the occupied West Bank are subject to other laws, to the occupying laws, while the Israelis living there enjoy full civil rights. Madam Secretary, I'm repeating myself. I refer to the tweet you have spread, and I would once again urge you to add the word to the act.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u74	Madam Minister, the debate shows how outraged Parliament is about the injustice that is being done to the Palestinian people. The vaccination campaign and the discrimination currently taking place only make the situation worse and more urgent. You have outlined that Belgium is following this case carefully, and I would ask you to continue to do so and try to increase pressure, together with the European partners, to ensure that Israel complies with international law. It must fulfil its obligations as an occupying power, especially as regards the health situation of the Palestinian population. I am sure that there will be a lot of parliamentary debates on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u75	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 31 November, seven European human rights ambassadors expressed their deep concern and called for the release of at least five women's rights activists, including Loujain al-Hathloul, whose case has been referred to a special court for terrorism and national security. Other women have also been referred to this court, such as Samar Badawi, Nassima al-Sada, Nouf Abdulaziz and Maya al-Zahrani, who are still in detention. It is known that a decision was taken concerning the young Loujain al-Hathloul who was sentenced to five years and eight months in prison – it is a half-relief – for simply violating, which was forbidden at the time, namely driving his vehicle. Madam Minister, why has Belgium not joined the request of ambassadors, particularly from countries with which we have common borders, namely the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg, while young Loujain al-Hathloul has ties with our country? What about the initiatives Belgium could take towards her, since she was still in prison and should be released in March, but also, in general, with regard to women's rights and human rights in Saudi Arabia? This issue remains a matter of great concern. That is why I ask you to act as proactively as possible in relation to cases which remain very shocking and which have links with Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u76	Madam President, Minister, my colleague Georges Dallemagne has painted a rather disturbing picture of the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. As far as I am concerned, I would like to refer specifically to the case of Loujain al-Hathloul. Indeed, as you know, many Saudi women are fighting tirelessly today to defend their rights. They campaign in particular for the abolition of male guardianship to travel, to study, to drive. It is true that the right to drive was granted to Saudi women in 2018. Nevertheless – as we have seen most recently – the repression of their militant actions remains important and challenging in terms of human rights, in particular freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial. It is therefore in these circumstances that Loujain al-Hathloul has been locked up, since 2018, for "terrorism" and was sentenced, on 28 December, to five years and eight months in prison with a two-year and ten-month stay. This suspension means that Loujain al-Hathloul was released as early as March 2021 but on the double condition of not committing another "crime" within three years of his conviction and not leaving the kingdom for five years. His release is therefore far from being achieved, not to mention that the conditions of detention in Saudi prisons are inhuman, as is well known. Ms. Al-Hathloul was allegedly subjected to electrocution and sexual violence during her incarceration. On the very day of Mrs. al-Hathloul's conviction, your French and German counterparts urged the Saudi government to release all prisoners of conscience, including Ms. al-Hathloul. As usual, the Saudi government has remained deaf to these demands. Moreover, it is this unbearable attitude of the Saudi government that prompted our Parliament to unanimously adopt, in June 2015, a resolution urging the federal government to reconsider our relations with Saudi Arabia in the light of systematic violations of human rights. You yourself, Madam Minister, voted for this text at the time. Minister, I agree with my colleague Dallemagne's requests. What steps are being taken or will be taken to secure the immediate and unconditional release of Loujain al-Hathloul, as well as the abandonment of the burdens on her today? What measures will be taken to ensure that, if Lujahin al-Hathloul were nevertheless to remain in detention and regrettably, she can at least see her family and consult a doctor of her choice? Has a formal request from the federal government been made to the Saudi government, like the requests of the French and German governments? Shouldn't a request be made at European level? Are you considering demanding, not asking, as foreseen in the 2015 resolution, that Saudi Arabia comply with the prohibition of torture? What happened to the request, also contained in the 2015 motion for a resolution, to conduct a thorough reflection on Belgium's diplomatic, military, economic, commercial and energy relations with Saudi Arabia? What are the conclusions? Above all, what measures have been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u77	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, Mrs Rohonyi, I obviously share your concern about the situation of Mrs Loujain al-Hathloul and the other activists for women's rights, activists currently detained and prosecuted in Saudi Arabia. The initiative of the seven countries to which you refer does not concern an initiative of the bilateral ambassadors with assignment to Riyadh, but rather of itinerant ambassadors with assignment to their respective capitals in charge of cross-cutting human rights in the world. Since this function does not exist in Belgium, our country could not be invited to join the initiative led by the capitals of these seven countries. That said, Belgium continues to insist on the issue of human rights, both publicly and in bilateral contacts with the Saudi authorities. I stress that human rights are an integral part of our relations with Saudi Arabia and are discussed at all levels, administrative and political. In this regard, I recall the two previous Belgian multidisciplinary missions involving, among others, Foreign Affairs, Justice and State Security which visited Riyadh in November 2017 and 2019 to discuss the issue of human rights. At the UN Human Rights Council, our country has repeatedly joined in joint statements with other countries on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. These statements expressed their great concern about the persecution, detention, intimidation, among others, of human rights defenders. The last was held in September 2020 on the occasion of the 45th session of the Human Rights Council. Our country also cited human rights defenders at the 41st and 42nd sessions in 2019 as well as at the 43rd session in 2020. Ms. Loujain al-Hathloul was also explicitly mentioned in the past year. Our diplomats continue to work closely with diplomatic representatives who share the same vision on the subject of human rights and closely monitor developments on this issue. Ms. Rohonyi, in fact, despite her commitment to defending the human rights of women in Saudi Arabia, Ms. Loujain al-Hathloul was sentenced for her activism following a trial in the specialized criminal court dealing with terrorism cases. Belgium is on the same line as our European partners, including the High Representative and Vice-President of the European Commission. We understand that Ms. Loujain al-Hathloul could be released shortly and we are making every effort to ensure that her early release takes place. At the end of December the FPS Foreign Affairs publicly repudiated his conviction by tweeting. Nevertheless, I believe that over-reaction could jeopardize this early release. Throughout the detention and trial of Ms al-Hathloul, we raised her case and that of other Saudi human rights defenders with the Saudi authorities during our bilateral contacts and in multilateral forums. You are referring to the parliamentary resolution of 2015. Following this, as well as that of 2017, various steps have been taken. Belgium took part in several joint statements within the Human Rights Council concerning the situation of human rights or activism in Saudi Arabia. I recall that two Belgian missions visited Saudi Arabia to discuss the issue of human rights and the fight against terrorism and violent radicalism. Belgium therefore ensures that the issue of human rights is constantly on the agenda of our discussions in accordance with these two parliamentary resolutions. In April 2020, the Saudi authorities issued a ban on the use of whipping as a sanction, which is linked to some of the concerns of the Parliament contained in the 2015 resolution. The Saudi authorities had also adopted reforms to the death penalty for minors by replacing it with a maximum penalty of 10 years, excluding crimes under Islamic law for which it was still applicable, as well as with respect to the rights of expatriate workers by making changes to the kafala system. However, some forms of corporal punishment and capital punishment have not yet been prohibited. Belgium will continue its efforts to ensure that Saudi Arabia complies with its own international obligations under the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment to which it acceded on 23 September 1997. It is clear that Belgian diplomacy will continue to work with respect for human rights around the world, including in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u78	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. Saudi Arabia could be increasingly sensitive to international pressure to respect certain fundamental rights and to accelerate reforms to achieve genuine equality between men and women. We're still far from it today. Maybe the Biden administration can have a more convincing relationship than Trump had. I do not believe that we are overreacting by demanding unconditional release and the abandonment of all charges, as my colleague Rohonyi suggests. I would ask you to make a clear request in this direction, as Germany and France have done, that there be stronger and more coordinated support from the Europeans so that all these charges are dropped as they are perfectly scandalous and absurd. I therefore invite you to address such a request to the Saudi authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u79	Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you are concerned about the dramatic human rights situation in Saudi Arabia and the measures that you are in a position to take primarily at the diplomatic level. However, when you say that there is a risk of overreacting to the immediate early release of Loujain al-Hathloul, I am not following you. I think we need to trust the experts and NGOs who have been following this issue for a very long time. When they request early immediate release, it is because they are aware of the fact that Saudi Arabia must be able to hear this request. Today, we are truly in a situation of impotence, faced with reforms that have been undertaken by Saudi Arabia but which appear to be extremely timid. In addition, the Saudi government is now pursuing a real policy of harassment against anyone who dares to rebel against him and dares to formulate the dream of a Saudi Arabia that respects human rights. I am thinking in particular of Raif Badawi, who is a rather illustrious case, but also of all Saudi women activists. I invite you, therefore, to coordinate and pool your efforts with your European counterparts mainly, in order to exert active pressure on Saudi Arabia, because I think it is more than time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u80	I have to make my mind clear once again. You are well aware that diplomacy is always an extremely delicate exercise, especially when it comes to the possible release of a person. There is a difference between the clear and explicit expression of certain points of view regarding respect for certain values, and the more subtle approach to be taken when it comes to a person's life. When I speak of over-reaction, I do not mention over-reaction in terms of respecting the values that bring us all here, as democrats and progressives, but rather the approach to be taken to address specific problems in diplomacy when it comes to a person's life and living conditions. I think we are all well aware of these subtleties, and I therefore ask you to take this into account in my answer and not to think that I am denigrating the difficulties facing this person and many other people around the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answer, and I understand the nuances and prudence that you are exercising. Our role as a parliamentarian is probably easier than yours, which is why we are stronger and harder. Having said that, I see that countries responsible and concerned about the lives of these women – such as Angela Merkel's Germany or Emmanuel Macron's France – have taken initiatives, and I imagine they have weighed them. I hope that we can join these initiatives, because they seem to me to remain in a responsible framework. If we are not sufficiently specific, these women could continue to be abused.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u82	Madam Minister, we are of course aware, in terms of respect for human rights, of the difficulty of your mission – especially in front of countries as refractory as Saudi Arabia. From the moment when Parliament unanimously adopts strong resolutions calling on the government to make similar commitments to such countries, it is in our role to ensure that it takes the necessary steps in this direction. That was our only intention. Similarly, NGOs are active in the field. It goes without saying that the government must be able to support them in their tasks, which are also difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Koen Metsu's 55011716C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u84	Madam President, Minister, last week the Chamber adopted a resolution on a binding UN Convention on Human Rights and Businesses. The Court calls for recognition of the need for an international legally binding instrument on human rights and business, and for Belgium to take an active part in the negotiations and adopt a position. The European Commission, in particular European Commissioner Didier Reynders, will also come forward with a proposal for European legislation on this subject. The resolution adopted by the Chamber calls on the Government to support the development of European legislation in this area. There is currently a European public consultation on the subject at European level, allowing civil society, citizens and also the Member States of the European Union to express their main concerns. In this way, Member States' main concerns can already be taken into account, even before the proposal is published. If Belgium participates as a Member State in this consultation, what are the main points of substance that the government will give? Will this be coordinated with the Länder and civil society? Is the Belgian Government prepared to take further steps proactively, apart from the European initiative and the UN initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u85	Madam President, Mrs Reynaert, as mentioned in the coalition agreement, the government's ambition is to continue to play a leading role in the development of a European legislative framework on duty of care. The European Commission's legislative initiative on sustainable corporate governance provides such a framework with due diligence in the supply chain of companies and a duty of care for drivers. In consultation with the Länder, it has been agreed that it is indeed appropriate to make a Belgian contribution to the public consultation on this issue. A steering committee with representatives of the Regions and the federal administrations concerned has started preparing a Belgian contribution. I do not want to anticipate the substantive points that will be put forward here. It is also intended to involve civil society. Civil society organisations may also participate in the public consultation on their own behalf. A number of them will undoubtedly do so, whether through their European dome or not. The topic of business and human rights, and more generally sustainable corporate governance, is an important focus for the government. In addition to initiatives at the UN and the EU, follow-up at Belgian level is also important. My services regularly consult with stakeholders and are involved, among other things, in the National Action Plan "Entrepreneurship and Human Rights," which identified 33 action points in close consultation with the Länder to encourage Belgian companies to respect and promote human rights. This action plan will soon be reviewed, as planned, and a decision will be taken on the preparation of a second national action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u86	Madam Minister, I am pleased that we will actively contribute to the development of European legislation. We have a number of suggestions on what should be included in European legislation: it is important to impose both due diligence and a duty of recovery, to give access to the courts of the Member States to persons with a legal interest, etc. I look forward to Belgium's contribution in terms of content. When negotiations start at European level, we will end with European legislation: when it comes to a regulation, we will have to apply it; when it comes to a directive, we will have to transpose it into Belgian legislation anyway. So there will be Belgian legislation on this subject anyway. It would be nice if we in Belgium were to think proactively about how this legislation should look concrete, including at Belgian level. We also support, of course, the initiative of your party colleague Didier Reynders. Other Member States, such as France and the Netherlands, are already doing so. They have already adopted legislation under development or even already. Belgium could also be a forerunner, so I hope we can go a step further.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55011787C and 55011788C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u88	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, in early September, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office announced that a tooth – particularly sordid detail – attributed to the Congolese leader would soon be returned to Patrice Lumumba's rights holders. In his speech on the state of the Nation on 14 December 2020, Congolese President Félix Tshisekedi also announced that the repatriation of Patrice Lumumba's remains from Belgium to the DRC will take place in 2021. A burial should be erected and funerals "dignes of his rank" should be organized in the DRC. From the point of view of your department, Madam Minister, could you please indicate the state of play of this restitution and whether a dialogue on this subject is under way with the Democratic Republic of the Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u89	Madam Minister, my colleague has just mentioned this rather sordid story of the remains of Patrice Lumumba, who will undoubtedly remain one of the icons of the anti-colonial and anti-racism struggles and, unfortunately, also a very dark element of our Belgian colonial past, which we must be able to assume. This January 17 marked the 60th anniversary of his assassination. Twenty years ago, Belgium acknowledged its moral involvement in the assassination of the Congolese leader. The term "moral" may raise questions when we know that in reality Belgium has admitted to having participated in the corruption of elites opposed to the Congolese leader, in financing his arrest and that Belgian officers were present during the assassination. For decades, a tooth belonging to the Congolese leader was kept at home by one of the officers present during the assassination. You have committed yourself to solemnly repatriating these remains to the family. In any case, the parliamentary committee Lumumba has shown that the former Congolese Prime Minister is considered a person threatening Belgian interests in an independent Congo. Hence my questions, Madam Minister: since the work of the commission on the assassination of Patrice Lumumba, what initiatives have Belgium taken to rehabilitate the memory of the former Congolese leader? What about the compensation suggested by Louis Michel for the benefit of the family of the former Congolese Prime Minister? What about the foundation on behalf of Patrice Lumumba, which Belgium committed to finance to the tune of 500,000 euros a year almost 20 years ago? What was the government's communication to commemorate the 60-year anniversary of the assassination of Patrice Lumumba? Is a permanent tribute, such as a stele, a statue or other, envisaged soon? What solemn repatriation is planned for the remains of Patrice Lumumba?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u90	Following the proposal of my predecessor, Louis Michel, the Council of Ministers of 29 November 2002 granted a budget of 1,250,000 euros to the Lumumba Foundation in addition to an annual allocation of 500,000 euros. The government made proposals in February 2005 to the Lumumba family to put the project back on track. Unfortunately, it was not possible to find statutes in accordance with Belgian domestic law and the Lumumba family's requirements for this foundation. With regard to the development of the public space in Brussels, I am aware of the inauguration of Square Patrice Lumumba on 30 June 2018 and I do not have any information on other possible projects. Questioned also on the repatriation of Mr Lumumba's relics, I can tell you that in his speech on the state of the Nation of 14 December 2020, President Tshisekedi announced that the repatriation of Patrice Émery Lumumba's relics to the DRC would take place in 2021. He indicated that his country would show its gratitude to his former Prime Minister and that a burial worthy of his sacrifice for his homeland would be given to him. The Belgian Government attaches great importance to a respectful and dignified transfer of Mr Lumumba's remains and the date and modalities of restitution will be agreed with all stakeholders. The Federal Prosecutor's Office, which holds Mr. Lumumba's tooth, indicated that it was prepared to return it to those who had requested it on the date they wished. Our embassy in Kinshasa also remains in close contact with the Lumumba family in order to facilitate this return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u91	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You are indeed committed to giving dignity to the repatriation of Patrice Lumumba's remains. I believe that, indeed, the government – and in particular the Department of Foreign Affairs that you lead – must surround the translation of Patrice Lumumba's remains with an accompaniment and a presence at both the airport and perhaps with the handing over of the remains to the representatives of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Patrice Lumumba was murdered with Maurice Mpolo and Joseph Okito, of which much less is said, even though they experienced beating, violence, dismemberment after their murder and dispersal of their bodies through acid. These are the brutal and violent conditions unworthy of the 20th century that these men had to endure, sometimes recalling the darkest memories of the Second World War. We are talking about the repatriation of the remains of a former Prime Minister, a man first and foremost fond of freedom and social justice. I take note of your answer and would like to know what concrete follow-up the Belgian Government will give to the comments you have just made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u92	As you know, Parliament has set up a committee on Belgium's colonial past in the Congo, Burundi and Rwanda, with the aim of revealing the truth or the truth, according to the debate. On the other hand, the truth about the assassination of Mr Lumumba is known, as it has been the subject of work in Parliament. You are quoting Lumumba Square in Ixelles, a local initiative that we can only rejoice at, but I think that Belgium would really benefit from permanently honouring the victims of its darkest colonial past. Many debates must also take place on the physical representations of those who have been honoured and who may not have been honoured, but I think it is time to have this debate on a more positive representation of key actors in the fight against colonization, of course, including the murdered Prime Minister, Patrice Lumumba.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u93	Let us now turn to question No. 55011897C by Mr De Vriendt. I see he's online, but he's not gonna show up. We'll skip his question for now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u94	Madam Minister, as you know, during the previous parliamentary term, the House of Representatives adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military employees of the German national-socialist regime during the Second World War. In 2017, there were still around 2,800 beneficiaries in Belgium, of an old-age pension paid by the German State. In May 2020, ten former employees continued to receive a pension paid in Belgium by the German State after their engagement in the Wehrmacht, and for one of them in an SS division. The money is paid as compensation for personal injury incurred for taking up arms for Hitler. We are not talking about the voluntary or involuntary and forced nature of this commitment in the service of the Nazi regime. Moreover, it would seem that a resolution similar to the Belgian resolution voted in 2019 is on the benches of our colleagues in the Bundestag, namely the German Parliament, which I welcome. Minister, could you please tell me what follow-up you and your department have given to the requests contained in this parliamentary resolution since my previous question to your predecessor? What is the status of the discussions with the German authorities in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, I join the questions already asked by my excellent colleague, Mr Christophe Lacroix, and I refer to the written text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u96	Mr. Dallemagne and Mrs. Rohonyi are no longer present. You have the floor, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all point out that the German Parliament has not obtained a majority in favour of setting up an independent committee. The Foreign Affairs Department discussed the issue with the German Embassy in Brussels, which is well aware of this issue. In addition, our diplomatic post in Berlin regularly requests and obtains information from the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs of North Rhine-Westphalia. According to the latest figures dated 8 January, it appears that nine persons are entitled to a pension in Belgium under the German Federal Social Security Act, namely four war invalids, including three Germans who settled in Belgium after the war, five widows, three of whom are of Belgian nationality and two of German nationality. The Land of North Rhine-Westphalia confirms that there is no indication that one or more of the beneficiaries were involved in violations of humanity or the rule of law under the German Federal Social Security Act. German legislation on the protection of privacy prevents the sharing of data which could lead to the individual identification of the persons concerned by the granting and payment of such pensions. Our embassy continues to monitor the progress of this case and remains in contact with the competent authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia. On the question of the data of collaborators convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia, I invite you to question the Minister of Justice in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u98	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. First of all, I interviewed the Minister of Justice two weeks ago. To his great astonishment, Mr. Van Quickenborne was able to acknowledge that his predecessor, Mr Geens, had not forwarded the list of collaborators you have just spoken about to the German government. So he promised me to repair this forgetfulness more than bad, and this is an euphemism. Secondly, I have just learned today that the Flemish Parliament, in any case some members of the Flemish Parliament, wanted to honour two former figures of collaboration, Stefaan De Clerck and August Borms. This shows to what extent there is a banality of the far right and those who have in the past made sure that regimes as abominable as the Nazi regime, persist and sign. The fact that the Bundestag has not yet decided or in any case that the Die Linke party's resolution has not led to a vote by the German Federal Parliament does not relieve us of our responsibilities. Indeed, in the resolution adopted in March 2019, it was stated that if it was not possible to set up a joint German and federal Belgian committee, the scientific committee should be able to make progress on this issue. The scientific committee would be composed with linguistic parity of eight Belgian members presented by the university recognised by the communities and would be financed by the Belgian Federal Parliament, so I think we have all the keys in hand to break the truth and to stop this injustice and this form of impunity for those who have collaborated or committed crimes, as is probably the case when we belonged to the SS.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We need to be very clear on the principle. It cannot be accepted that nine people still receive supplementary pensions for services rendered in the Third Reich during the Second World War. This is completely unacceptable. It's unimaginable! It is a real injustice that must stop as soon as possible. On the operational nature of this scientific committee to be set up, I understand the obstacle on the German side. But, as Mr Lacroix has said, nothing prevents us from already moving towards the establishment of such a scientific committee, in any case on the Belgian side, in order to restore equality and put an end to this impunity and injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u100	Madam President, I regret not having been able to ask my question, but I join my colleagues. I am also quite surprised and outraged that we can still pay pensions to these nine individuals. I am therefore pleased that the Belgian Government is moving forward on this issue. I hope we can find definitive solutions to prevent these people from receiving pensions for SS services. It does seem totally scandalous to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer is quite long, but I suppose you will be pleased. After seven years of consultation and 35 rounds of negotiations, relations between China and the EU on an investment agreement have accelerated at the end of last year. The concessions made by Beijing in terms of market access, level playing field and sustainable development have led the Commission to consider the time to conclude negotiations at technical level by the end of 2020. The existence of this agreement of principle for the conclusion of the negotiations was confirmed at a political level at a video conference on 30 December 2020, in which the President of the Commission, the President of the European Council, the rotating Presidency of the Council and the Chinese President Xi Jinping participated. Since the beginning of the negotiations and certainly in the months preceding the conclusion of the agreement, Belgium has always stressed to the Commission the importance of its content rather than its timetable. As far as content is concerned, it must first of all be recognised that this agreement allows real progress in terms of market access for European investments and contains serious commitments by China in terms of equity, conditions of competition for our investors and sustainable development. As far as investment is concerned, this is simply the most ambitious agreement China has ever reached with a third country. In concrete terms, this agreement will improve European investors' access to the 1.4 billion-strong Chinese market in all economic sectors by formalising the current level of openness that has so far been non-binding. However, the agreement goes further and provides for new market access opportunities in crucial sectors such as automotive – especially for new electric vehicles – Internet services on the cloud, financial services, biotech and health. With regard to fair competition, the agreement provides for rules against forced technology transfer and will also be the first agreement to include non-discrimination obligations for public undertakings, as well as rules on full transparency in the field of subsidies. It is a real progress for our investors in China, who are all too often faced with unfair conditions. Finally, it is important to emphasise that the agreement will also be able to promote our fundamental values and sustainability objectives. For the first time, China has accepted strict provisions on sustainable development in this type of agreement, including a commitment to implement the Paris Agreement and a commitment to corporate social responsibility. These rules are also subject to a dispute settlement mechanism, such as in the EU's free trade agreements. Is this agreement sufficient, if not opportune? Does it respond to all the requests of the European Union and Belgium or does it offer all the guarantees expected? The answer to these questions must of course be nuanced, more nuanced in any case than a simple yes or a simple no. As in each negotiation, full satisfaction with the fullness of the requests made cannot be expected. Nor can we realistically expect that only an agreement will resolve all our issues with China, with which we share a complex economic and geopolitical relationship. It must therefore be seen for what it is: one of the tools of the European Union in its strategic relationship with that country and a step towards more strategic autonomy. The Commission is therefore planning further initiatives against distortions of our internal market through foreign subsidies, as well as consultations with the new Biden administration. The agreement will have to be assessed for its own merits, but also in view of the changing geopolitical context of our relationship with China. Without being able at this stage to give you a definitive assessment, I can already tell you that we are keeping real questions on a number of points. This is the case for the aspect of investment protection, which – I regret – is totally absent from the agreement, as the Commission was only able to secure a commitment from China to continue working on this issue. This is also the case with the concessions made by the EU regarding the opening up of the European renewable energy market. While this opening is defined and limited, it affects a highly sensitive sector and raises questions about its practical application. So Belgium still has serious reservations on this point. Finally, and above all, this is the case with regard to the social clause, and in particular with regard to labour. This is a subject on which Belgium has taken the view during the European discussions that the Commission must demand very solid guarantees from the Chinese. In this context, we note that the text of the agreement contains a commitment from China to provide continuous and sustained restraint to continue the ratification of the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation, including in the field of forced labour. Although we welcome this important commitment, we can only regret that there are no guarantees that it will be respected in practice. We shouldn't be naive. Everyone here knows the problem of the Uighurs and of forced labour. The link between investment and labour is unmistakable. This agreement therefore also has a role to play here. That is why this is a missed opportunity to gain a stronger commitment from China. These elements were formally, orally and in writing communicated within the framework of the Trade Policy Committee of the EU Council in COREPER on 8 January. In terms of timing, you will have understood, so negotiations are over and should not be reopened a priori. However, work on this agreement will continue to refine the text at the technical and legal level. It will also be translated and made public in order to be able to be analysed in depth and evaluated at political level, whether in this forum, with the federated entities or with the European Parliament. The agreement should finally be presented for agreement by the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament at the beginning of 2022, under the French Presidency of the Council. Belgium will then have the opportunity to formally express its position on this agreement, which will require a qualified majority in the Council and the approval of the European Parliament to enter into force. Until then, I intend to make contact with my European counterparts, the European Commission and the various stakeholders in Belgium, in order to assess this agreement as best as possible. I also intend to continue to encourage the Commission to stand firm in the field of forced labour and to use all the instruments at its disposal to eradicate any form of forced labour. I repeat, forced labour has no place in a commercial relationship with any of our partners, regardless of who that is. In the run-up to adoption by the Council and ratification by the European Parliament, the current agreement in principle should be used as a lever in the coming year to encourage the cessation of forced labour, including through the ratification of the International Labour Organisation conventions on forced labour. Cooperation with a number of EU Member States and the European Parliament is envisaged. I am pleased to note that there is strong support in the Council for monitoring the situation regarding forced labour. I also call on the European Commission to regularly review the ratification and implementation of the ILO Conventions by China and to report on developments in the field in the relevant Council committees, such as the Trade Policy Committee and the Human Rights Committee. Our diplomatic network in China is also following the situation as a matter of priority. We will also continue to monitor the negotiations on the investment protection mechanism. The commitment is to try to complete this with China within two years. Meanwhile, the national investment protection agreements of the EU Member States remain in force. Finally, with regard to the screening of investments, I can confirm that a legislative text is currently being finalised by the cabinet of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The aim is to meet the requirements arising from the European Regulation establishing a framework for the screening of foreign direct investment in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u102	Madam Minister, thank you for your long answer, but above all very clear. As parliamentarians, we share these concerns. We share exactly the same questions. You said, without turning around the pot: "Dwangarbeid heeft geen plaats in eleven andersrelaties(?)". I think it is important to repeat this: no, an investment protection agreement cannot be signed if this country does not ratify such important ILO conventions on the prohibition of forced labour, particularly by people from the Uighur minority in Xinjiang province. For us, it's really out of the question. I am very proud that you can, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also that we, as parliamentarians, can send this very strong signal to the European Commission. For us, human rights are not a small condition that we could put on a conditional basis, as a footnote in an investment protection agreement. When we talk about human rights as important, as essential as the prohibition of forced labour, I think we should talk about the obligation of result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u103	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I am very pleased with the answer. You've put the dots on the "I." It is clear that the German Presidency was speeded up at the end of the year. I believe that it has not yet been understood that the aspect of forced labour and Uighurs is also very sensitive within the European Parliament. Indeed, much remains to be done in technical-legal and political terms by 2021. Compliance with the ILO conventions and their ratifications are really a priority for the Member States of the European Union. I hope that we can make it clear to the Chinese that we are not laughing at this and that this is a serious matter for us. I welcome your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u104	Minister, I do not think it is time to sign an investment agreement with China. I think this is absolutely not the time; I hear your remarks and your concerns, but I would go further. I believe that investment agreements with China should not be signed for four essential reasons. First of all, I believe that this does not increase our strategic autonomy since it is a question of encouraging Chinese investment in Europe and European investment in China; this seems to me to run counter to our strategic autonomy in relation to a country that dominates world trade at this point and in such a massive way. I think we have to get rid of it. Secondly, it is known that China does not respect the agreements it signs anyway. Why sign an agreement with a country that is well known and will ultimately fail to comply with the clauses it claims to comply with, as is currently the case with Australia and Hong Kong, where China is flouting the international conventions it has yet signed? Thirdly, and my colleagues have referred to it, China has still not signed the core international conventions such as that of the ILO and allows itself to resort to the forced labour of some of its nationals, particularly the Uighurs. Finally, it would be a political victory for a country that today is a threat to its neighbours, to international security, to human rights on its territory, and that still allows itself to deny access to WHO, who would like to know how and why this coronavirus has caused so much misfortune and damage to humanity as a whole. For all these reasons, I think we need to send a clear signal. My group and I do not want such an investment agreement with China today under these conditions. I think that would be extremely scandalous.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u105	Madam Minister, thank you for your very clear answer on the matter. I agree with the replies of the other speakers. Our group also shares the concerns. The negotiated agreement is also problematic for us in several areas. You've already referred to it. It is about respecting labour rights and ratifying the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. You have made it very clear and we must repeat it again. Forced labour has no place in our trade relations. Indeed, the agreement does not contain provisions on investment protection, which is, of course, a problem, just like the way in which it is regulated and will work in practice. That gives cause for concern. I have two more points. Firstly, just as with the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur, it is also important in this dossier that Belgium clearly specifies the conditions to be met before such an agreement could be ratified at all. Secondly, the concern is that the procedure in the European Council is a procedure by qualified majority. Even if Belgium were to oppose it, the Convention could still be approved. It is therefore very important to find sufficient partners at the European level so that we can adopt a common position within the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u106	Trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious crimes. The coalition agreement therefore rightly calls the fight against it an absolute policy priority. Trafficking in human beings often takes place in secret. And by Corona, that is even more the case - according to Myria's 2020 annual report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u107	Mr Segers, in reply to your question on the exploitation of diplomatic domestic personnel, I can say the following. It is not true that the standard contract of employment offered by the Executive Board Protocol for persons with the status of private servant and whose use is compulsory would be out of date in terms of wages. As regards the "wage" aspect, it should first be noted that the standard contract of employment always contains, for information purposes only, the salary scales of the relevant Joint Committee 323 for domestic staff. The employer is always free to pay a higher wage. Conversely, it is equally important to mention that an employer in Belgium is always obliged to pay at least the most up-to-date barema. This also applies to employers of diplomatic domestic staff, regardless of the salary scale included for information purposes in the standard contract of employment. Any new application for diplomatic domestic staff shall be subject to a single green light for recruitment only after checking whether the registered salary corresponds to the most recently applicable salary scale. Furthermore, the most recent version of the standard contract of employment already contains the salary scales published by the Joint Committee 323 for 2020, but it was not yet possible to formally publish this version in the Protocol Guide on Privileges and Immunities as an annex to the Commission's ongoing consultation with partners and experts for good services. Once PC 323 will have published its new salary scales in 2021, the standard employment contract will be adapted accordingly. Before going into the figures, a small correction. It is not for the employee to renew his special residence permit personally. This application reaches the Protocol Management Board through the diplomatic mission of the employer of the diplomatic domestic staff. In 2019 and 2020 respectively, 68 and 34 interviews were held with diplomatic domestic staff following the issue of a special residence permit by the Protocol Management Committee. As regards the number of cases of trafficking in human beings or suspected trafficking in human beings, there are no known cases for private servants for 2019 and 2020. However, the standard practice in such a case is indeed that the Protocol Management Committee itself contacts one of the specialised centres and, where appropriate, the Commission for Good Services. As of October 2016, the control of diplomatic domestic personnel was increased. Since then, not only is a compulsory interview scheduled after the first special residence permit has been issued, but also when it is renewed. The special residence permit shall only be handed over personally to diplomatic domestic staff. The example of a driver coming to collect the special residence permit of a member of the diplomatic household staff is therefore virtually excluded. If a driver and not the convocated diplomatic domestic staff would present themselves, they would receive nothing, except in exceptional circumstances, and a new convocation would be sent. The diplomatic domestic staff may already have a direct contact with the competent department of the Protocol Management Committee at any time, in addition to the already compulsory interviews. In addition to the usual information on rights and obligations under Belgian social and labour law, the person will receive the contact details of both the responsible file managers and the Commission of good offices and explanations of its operation at the very first interview after arrival in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u108	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. Trafficking in human beings is a phenomenon that often stays under the radar and that is even more the case in times of corona. That is all the more true for the diplomatic domestic staff. I am therefore pleased that we can count on your commitment to a vigorous fight against trafficking in human beings. As the coalition agreement states, this is an absolute policy priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u109	Madam Minister, China is the world's largest source of cotton, of which 84% is produced in the Uighur region, how does the Belgian government ensure that the supply chains of Belgian companies are not tainted by the forced labour of Uighurs? What is Belgium's position on US sanctions? What about the European Union? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u110	I fully share your concern about the human rights situation in Xinjiang, particularly with regard to the fate of the Uighurs. The Department of Foreign Affairs is closely following this situation. Our concerns are shared bilaterally as well as in the various relevant forums. The United States has developed its own sanctions instruments and policies, while the British and Canadians recently announced measures to prevent the forced labour goods of this Muslim minority in Xinjiang from reaching their consumers. On the European side, the concerns are also growing, so that the human rights situation in Xinjiang is regularly raised with the Chinese authorities bilaterally, including between European and Chinese leaders, but also at the annual EU-China dialogue on human rights, which will therefore take place this year, as well as within the framework of the Human Rights Council and the Third United Nations Commission. The political agreement in principle at the end of December 2020 on an investment agreement between the European Union and China also contains a provision on human rights and forced labour, on which China has committed itself. We will recall the discussion we have just had in more detail and the reservations we have expressed on this subject. We will therefore be particularly vigilant in this regard. As far as your question concerning the supply chains of Belgian companies is concerned, it is not within my competence. However, I can tell you that the European Commission is preparing for the second quarter of this year a legislative initiative on sustainable corporate governance, which should include a binding duty of vigilance, applicable throughout business supply chains. It goes without saying that our country intends to play a constructive role in the development of this legislative framework. Before you say so, and without prejudging what you are going to answer to me, I would agree if you told me that what others can do, the European Union can do it too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u111	Madam Minister, thank you. Your word is golden. I hope that we can, of course, act very quickly. Nevertheless, I will ask your colleague in charge of the Economy to see whether Belgium can already take certain initiatives, so as to avoid products from forced labour of the Uighurs being sold on the Belgian market.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u112	Madam Minister, I tabled this question because, like my colleague Dallemagne, I really wanted to speak to the debate on the investment agreement between the European Union and China. On the dramatic situation of the Uighur people, there are continuing reports of arbitrary detention, forced labour, torture and forced sterilization. This was again recently recalled by the High Commissioner for Human Rights who has just announced the dispatch of a United Nations delegation during this first quarter, but also by your British counterpart. As you said: Brexit seems to have allowed Britain to take the lead and adopt a whole series of measures and sanctions for these companies that do not respect human rights and therefore use forced labour in Xinjiang province. As you said, we must be able to do the same at European level. That is where we can put pressure on China. Things are not completely sealed up in this investment agreement between the European Union and China, which I welcome and, in particular, because it was precisely the meaning of this resolution adopted by the European Parliament on forced labour and the situation of the Uighurs in the Xinjiang region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u113	Mr Dallemagne, in response to your question on the tropical forest in Brazil, I confirm that I have read the letter from NGOs to European parliamentarians, in which they express their concern about proposals to limit the activities of NGOs in the Amazon, as well as the response of Vice-President Hamilton Muráo. This response indicates that such measures are not envisaged when the Brazilian government respects the democratic principles as well as the civil and political rights enshrined in the Constitution, and affirms that engagement with civil society is all the more necessary in the least developed regions of the country such as Amazonia. Throughout the world, civil society organizations play an important role, including in supporting good governance and sustainable development. The situation of these organizations in Brazil is a cause for concern, as they are subject to often virulent verbal attacks by the highest authorities and face obstacles to their legitimate work. This is mainly the case for associations active in the field of environmental protection. Our country is closely following the situation and is involved in efforts and exchanges of views to strengthen the rights of civil society and the protection of human rights defenders. In addition to dialogues with the Brazilian authorities, the European Union maintains regular dialogues with human rights and environmental defenders and participates in field visits. Our embassy is also in direct dialogue with the Brazilian authorities to ensure that supply chains for agricultural products are free of deforestation products. As you know, the protection of human rights is one of the priorities of our foreign policy. Biodiversity also requires our full attention. Initiatives to combat the import into the European market of deforestation products, including those from Brazil, are expected in the coming months at European level. Belgium, which became a member on 1 January 2021 of the partnership of the Amsterdam Declaration on Deforestation, will play an active role in the European discussions. With regard to your question on Mercosur, Belgium has not yet taken a formal position on the agreement, but it is already clear that the agreement is not acceptable as it stands for Belgium as well as for other Member States and for the European Parliament. One of the main concerns with this agreement is, of course, the environmental and social aspect, which is directly related to the situation in Brazil. As the negotiations are concluded, we know that the Commission is actively working to find ways to substantially strengthen the social and environmental aspects of the agreement, which we encourage. As was done during a coordination of the Directorate-General for Coordination and European Affairs (DGE) on 14 January, Belgium will in the coming weeks be making closer contacts with other Member States in order to first consolidate our concerns about this agreement and then forward them to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u114	Madam Minister, thank you. I am satisfied with your answer and I am pleased that Belgium is on the side of human rights and environmental NGOs and associations in Brazil. They are doing a difficult and remarkable job and facing a government that apparently does not care much about its own environmental heritage. Thank you for being vigilant, proactive and for placing Belgium among the countries that are very actively concerned about the preservation of this lung of the planet and the peoples who have lived there for centuries. Thank you for your vigilance in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u115	Mrs Van Hoof, we know that former President Nkurunziza had a list of alleged putschists drawn up after the coup attempt of May 2015. That list contains 34 names. On the one hand, they are soldiers who have actually taken part in the putsch, some of whom have claimed their role, and on the other hand, the list contains the names of politicians and civil society activists for whom the Burundian government has never provided proof of their participation in the coup d'état. Most of those politicians and civil society activists are not in Rwanda today. We do not yet know exactly what the Rwandan Government's intentions are with who would be present on its territory. If we threaten to extradite the politicians and civil society activists to Burundi, we will not hesitate to raise this issue. I would also like to point out that the issues of Burundiese refugees and the threats against the alleged coupplegers are regularly raised by Belgium in our contacts with the EU and the UN, including in the context of the Contact Group for the Great Lakes, in which Huang Xia participates. Finally, I would like to stress that the dialogue between the Rwandan authorities, the EU and its Member States under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement has been resumed since early December. It is this dialogue that led to the release of the IWACU journalist you are talking about on 24 December. The dialogue will allow us to discuss the issue of amnesty for alleged coupplegers and national reconciliation. I hope that significant progress will also be made very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u116	Madam Secretary, I am pleased with your answer. The civil space for human rights defenders is getting smaller and smaller and the NGOs defending the rule of law and freedoms are also having a very difficult time, including in the Great Lakes region. I am therefore very pleased that you say that we will not give in to this and that we will raise it if there is an extradition to Burundi. I feel very clearly in this committee that we attach great importance to this because we see everywhere in the world that the civil space is being restricted and that we are taking tough action against human rights defenders. I am pleased that you share our view on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u117	Madam President, may I also ask how long we are going to continue the sitting, to deal with the issue of my agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u118	Madam President, I am almost ready to stay as long as you wish. I say "almost" because I have to attend a city council at 8:00. There are more than 20 questions. We can deal with them all if everyone refers to the question submitted in writing. However, it depends on you. Ministers are at Parliament's disposal. So you decide how to deal with it. However, we are ready. My team has worked a lot and hard to prepare everything. There were 85 questions on the agenda, which isn't nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u119	Madam Secretary, thank you for your attitude. I am glad that you are at Parliament's disposal, which we can only welcome. We will certainly prepare ourselves in the future for the fact that you have been bitten to answer our questions. So we're moving on. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u120	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your availability. In any case, I will have to apologize from 7 p.m. because I too will have to attend a committee meeting at local level. However, I start from the beginning. My question, which I would like to put now, deals with the problems of communication between Foreign Affairs, on the one hand, and diplomatic posts, on the other. I know that a lot of efforts have been made during the corona crisis. Nevertheless, we continue to receive messages from people who are sometimes sent from the cabinet to the wall, for example when they need a visa to go somewhere or to return from somewhere to Belgium. One service refers to the other service. One service states that certain supporting documents are necessary, whereas another service does not require them. This does not, of course, benefit the citizens. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Firstly, are you aware of the communication problems between Foreign Affairs, on the one hand, and the various diplomatic posts abroad, on the other? Secondly, do you have a view of the number of problems and the number of complaints received? Finally, are there certain diplomatic posts on which complaints are more frequent? If so, how will the operation of these posts be brought to an end?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u121	Mrs Van Bossuyt, in reply to your question, I can tell you that any communication problems will be dealt with as well as any complaints. Consular posts abroad often form the link between the residents abroad and the various administrations in Belgium, such as other FPS, municipalities and public prosecutors, who exercise their own authority and make decisions in that framework. For example, they can establish that a file is incomplete and request missing documents through Belgian posts in accordance with the requirements of Belgian legislation or regulations. The Belgian diplomatic and consular posts and the Foreign Office do not necessarily have the final decision-making power in certain, and sometimes complicated, procedures with other Belgian administrations. On a consular level, we are talking about the management of the Belgian population abroad about almost half a million people, about the processing of some 270,000 visa applications per year and about some 40,000 passport applications per year abroad. In 2019, 366 complaints were received from private individuals, with a large proportion of these being questions rather than questions. The complaints relate in particular to posts dealing with a large number of visa applications. The refusal decisions of the Foreign Affairs Office relating to visas shall be communicated through the consular posts. Communication between the central administration in Brussels and posts abroad is smooth and any communication disruptions are immediately remedied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u122	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can only say something about the things that reach us. I remember very well an e-mail traffic with a man whose daughter lived in Minsk and wanted to come here with her baby. In the end, they were unable to come because of all kinds of problems concerning the necessary documents, which were not clear. That man was really hopeless. I hope that we will be able to avoid such matters in the future and that the necessary attention will certainly be paid to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u123	Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for that efficiency. I fully share your concern about the arrest of 53 people from the political world under the National Security Act adopted in June 2020. Belgium supports the statement by High Representative Josep Borrell, who, in the name of the 27 Member States, has called for the immediate release of arrested persons and for respect for the rule of law, human rights, democratic principles and the high degree of autonomy that Hong Kong should enjoy under the principle of one country, two systems. This is in line with Hong Kong's Basic Law and China's national and international obligations. By far the vast majority of those arrested were also released shortly thereafter under conditions. Belgium attaches great importance to this issue and to the coherence of its action. In addition to our country's support for all the statements made by High Representative Borrell, Belgium has also endorsed various démarches on Hong Kong within the framework of the UN Human Rights Council and the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. Our country will continue to promote its position in the appropriate multilateral fora and within the European Union. I would also remind you that in July 2020 the Council of the European Union adopted conclusions on the situation in Hong Kong. Belgium has put them into practice in a concrete way, for example by facilitating the issuance of visas and assisting arrested activists in their trial under the National Security Act. Our Consulate General in Hong Kong continues to maintain regular contacts with the people of civil society and continues to pass on our concerns to the competent authority. At COREPER on 8 January, Belgium also asked for Hong Kong to be placed on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council on 25 January. Mrs Van Bossuyt, on the investment agreement between the European Union and China, I can tell you that until now this is a political agreement in principle which needs to be further developed technically and legally. Since we have already discussed this agreement on previous occasions, I suppose you do not want me to repeat everything about it, not even with regard to the report of this sitting. We know where we stand on this investment agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u124	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It struck me very much that there was a lot written in the press about the storming of the Capitol, and rightly so, but not about what is happening in Hong Kong. What is happening there defies all imagination in terms of democracy, and it shows that China is not. I am very pleased to hear that you are taking the lead in putting this issue on the agenda of the next Foreign Affairs Council and that we will adopt a strong stance towards China. As far as the investment agreement and its consequences are concerned, we were able to discuss them in detail just now, so I know the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u125	Madam Secretary, I am pleased with your reply, in particular one country, two systems. You have raised the issue of unauthorized taking up the opposition at European and multilateral level, and you will soon be doing so at the Council of the European Union. It is important to be able to use the sanction system when a number of people are arrested. I believe that this is one of the elements that is diplomatically available, including from the European Union, and on which there is an agreement on officials involved in restricting freedoms and fundamental rights in Hong Kong.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u126	Madam President, Madam Minister, during the presentation of the national vaccination strategy by the Vaccination Task Force on Friday 8 January, the Minister for Health made it clear that expats legally resident in Belgium will be vaccinated in our country. That makes sense, since they have a place of residence here and it naturally increases group immunity. However, for Belgians who live permanently abroad and have no address here, the situation would still be unclear. The Minister would consult with you on this because this requires a number of specific agreements. Madam Minister, will Belgians abroad who currently have no legal residence in our country be included in the national vaccination strategy? Have you had any discussions on this with the Minister of Health? Will our embassies and consulates play a role in this? How am I supposed to see that? What is your position on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u127	Madam President, Ms Jiroflée, consultations are currently taking place, inter alia, between the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Public Health Office, which is in charge of the vaccination strategy, in order to examine the international aspects of vaccination against covid. With regard to the vaccination of compatriots abroad, we must look at the measures taken by the authorities of each country for the inhabitants. The vaccination strategies are based on a principle of territoriality to apply to all residents, without making a distinction on the basis of nationality. The necessary sanitary conditions for the storage, transport and delivery of the vaccines do not allow on-site vaccination with vaccines that would be dispatched from Belgium. In addition, embassies and consulates are not equipped and are not competent for health care or to conduct a vaccination campaign. In any case, I believe that it is necessary to deepen European consultation on this issue. The issue of combating COVID-19 will be on the agenda of the European Council on 21 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u128	Thank you for your clear answer, Madam Secretary. I understand that this should be regulated at European level, but of course it is also about people who have been living in countries outside Europe for a number of years and without residence in Belgium for their work. I do know a few who are currently staying in a country where vaccination is far from being carried out, because they have not yet bought or been able to buy enough vaccines. Those are countries that are much poorer than, say, the United States or Europe. These people are the victims of this as a Belgian citizen. I would urge you to pay particular attention to this. Can a solution be sought for these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u129	The government's position on the presidential transition was not only announced on Twitter. The Prime Minister also clarified the Belgian position at the plenary session on 7 January. The results of the elections of 3 November 2020 must be respected. Belgium is in favour of the right to peaceful protest, but the government unequivocally rejects the violence of 6 January. It is deeply regrettable that only after that bloodshed did the President intend to commit himself to a peaceful transfer of power. We rely on the US judiciary to hold the persons responsible for the plans and carrying out the attack on the Capitol liable. Respect for democratic values and institutions is at the heart of our bilateral relationship and our foreign policy. Our friendly relationship with the US and first-hour ally allows us to communicate our concerns about these worrying events in an open manner. The farewell meeting with Ambassador Gidwitz was an opportunity to look back on the fertile mission of the ambassador in our country. For example, the commemorations of the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the Ardennes were mentioned. The ambassador was grateful for the Belgian contribution to the coalition against Daesh. The bilateral pre-clearance agreement was also discussed. Finally, the Ambassador reiterated China's interest in the United States and the investment threshold of 2% of GDP for defence expenditure in NATO's context was again raised. He also expressed American concerns about European legislative initiatives on the digital economy. Although I met Ambassador Gidwitz before the incident of January 6th, this farewell visit was a good opportunity to convey our concerns about the presidential transition. As regards future cooperation with the Biden administration, there is expected to be more predictability and more scope for dialogue. In a number of areas, including trade and Burden Sharing in NATO, we do not expect a dramatic change in American policy. We may be investing again with the US under Biden in multilateral diplomacy, for example for the announced return to the climate agreement, the World Trade Organisation, the World Health Organisation and possibly also the nuclear agreement with Iran. With regard to the climate and the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic, two major policy priorities of Biden, there is scope for cooperation at both multilateral, European, bilateral and regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u130	Madam Minister, it is indeed important, also for me, that we continue the good relations we have maintained with the US for many decades in the future, regardless of who is President. We are looking forward to the arrival of a new ambassador in our country. We believe that we should continue to work with our partners in the US in terms of technology and defence, but also in terms of culture and others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u131	Madam President, I would just like to say that Mr Francken is on his way. I've been notified that he'll be here shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u132	I will also answer his questions. Like you, I learned last week that there were problems with the visas of international experts to visit China as part of the WHO survey on the origin of covid-19. We are pleased with the agreement that WHO and China have been able to reach since then. The experts arrived in Wuhan on 14 January, where they will begin their work after a period of 40 weeks. Belgium will remain attentive to the development of the survey. At the beginning of November, the WHO had shared its proposal for an approach to the investigation of the origin of the COVID-19 virus with the Member States. During a WHO information session on 19 November, Member States were given the opportunity to ask questions about this approach. Among other things, the EU expressed its concern about the timeline and transparency of the study. The WHO promised to give regular updates in the course of the process. At the moment, it is too early for final results. Experience with previous medical examinations shows that such studies may take a long time. A thorough investigation is essential to draw useful lessons. Belgium attaches great importance to the investigation of the origin of the virus and supports WHO efforts in this regard. Scientific discoveries about the origin of the virus can provide us with new knowledge about the pandemic and help us prevent and better prepare for new pandemics. Our country therefore encourages China to cooperate fully with WHO and international experts. Through the European Union, Belgium has already repeatedly stressed the importance of a thorough and transparent investigation. Thus, our country acceded to the joint statement of the European Union at the beginning of October at the special session of the WHO Executive Council, in which the European Union called for the deployment of the international mission as soon as possible. In addition, at a WHO briefing on 19 November, the European Union stressed the need for transparent communication on the timing and progress of the study. Belgium believes that we must give all our confidence to WHO to ensure that the investigation can take place in the best possible conditions. At this stage, our country will therefore continue to follow closely the WHO study on the origin of the virus and wishes to await the results of this study. A request to the European Commission to launch its own study is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u133	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand the confidence that must be given to WHO. That said, this investigation begins more than a year after the facts, as the origin of this pandemic could date back to late autumn in China. It is already very unlikely to lead to extremely precise elements. In any case, in the meantime, a whole range of elements have probably disappeared, perhaps because of the Chinese authorities, perhaps just as time has passed. It is extremely worrying to see that it took all this time to obtain the authorizations, all these constraints. One cannot help but think that China has sought to hide certain elements. I believe that it is absolutely necessary, as the resolution we adopted in the House provided for, for the European Union to carry out its own investigations, its own steps. It has already done so in a number of other situations, including China, in cybersecurity, for example. It would be important for the European Union not only to depend on the conclusions of an international agency, which is certainly very respectable, but which has had a whole series of constraints and sticks in the wheels on the part of China. China's demand for full transparency on this pandemic is imperative. That's far from the case. But this is absolutely essential for the confidence we could still have in this country, in international relations. We cannot be satisfied with its current position, which is totally contrary to the position that a power like China should adopt in relation to such a serious problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u134	Madam President, I apologize. We always have party summit meetings on Tuesday night. It was a little commuting. Madam Secretary, thank you very much for your explanation. I absolutely agree with what Mr Dallemagne says. In my view, this investigation is doomed to failure. They've been dragging and dragging for so long. This can no longer be taken seriously. We have a resolution in Parliament on 16 July. 1261 voted, I was the main proposer of it, to ask for an international, independent and scientific research. I haven't seen much of that. This House-wide resolution calls on the Belgian Government to engage in that debate with the Chinese representatives in Belgium. Yesterday, I see the Minister of Defence in a tweet with the Chinese ambassador to show that China and Belgium have a bilateral military relationship. I didn't know what I saw. To be honest, that scared the hell out of me. I hope that this military cooperation between China and Belgium is not too intense. Otherwise you will be able to explain it at NATO headquarters, Madam Secretary. China is no longer seen as an ally, but as a threat, as an enemy, as a major challenge for NATO, for our transatlantic alliance and for Belgium. The investigation that China must allow to the WTO cannot be taken seriously. It's been blocked for months. Meanwhile, all traces will be covered and there won't be much left to find. I hope, along with you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, that something will come out. We'll have to wait and see, but it doesn't look so good. I think this should be another lesson that we should not be naive in bilateral relations between the EU and China. We have also had the debate in committee today on the trade agreement. I think we are very naive about this too and let China deceive us. The N-VA calls for a more realistic approach in this area. The biggest geopolitical challenge is the relationship between the West and the Communist regime of the People's Republic of the East, in China.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u135	Mr President, we are also following closely the developments in Turkey and Syria and the information you are referring to has indeed been linked by various open sources from Kurdish and Arab countries, as well as by a Turkish Member of Parliament, a member of the pro-Kurdish HDP party. At this stage, we do not have any evidence to corroborate these allegations of the sending of Kurdish sexual slaves to Libya. It is therefore difficult for me to comment on information that has not been intertwined by various independent and impartial sources. However, of course, I remain very concerned about reports of gross violations of human rights and rumours of trafficking in human beings. This applies to the human rights situation in Syria, including in areas controlled either by the Turkish army or by militias close to Turkey, trained by Turkey and supervised by Turkey. The violation of human rights, especially against women, by militias supported by the Turkish army was documented in the report of the independent international commission of inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic, which was conducted between 11 January and 1 July 2020 and was presented at the 45th session of the Human Rights Council. Belgium intervened during the interactive dialogue with the commission of inquiry, expressing its deep concern at the findings of the commission concerning indiscriminate attacks on civilians, assassinations and sexual violence. Belgium also strongly supported the Commission's call for an immediate end to torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, including sexual and gender-based violence, in places of detention. I would like to echo the press report issued by the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Ms. Bachelet, when this report was published. It had called on the Turkish authorities to respect international law and to ensure that violations committed by armed groups under the effective control of Turkey ceased. My services remain vigilant with regard to your allegations. I will react if this information is confirmed. Finally, I would add that a meeting is planned with my Turkish colleague Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu on Thursday 21 January 2021 in Brussels. This meeting will provide an opportunity for an in-depth exchange not only on the state of our bilateral relations and on the state of EU-Turkey relations, but also on the human rights situation in Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u136	Madam Minister, thank you for your clear language. I think we need to be very careful. As you said, Turkey has major and clear responsibilities for extremely serious human rights violations in areas under its control through militias and also its army, particularly in Syria. It is also known that it has sent mercenaries to various theatres of military operations, particularly in Nagorny Karabakh and Libya. It is also known that Kurdish women have been raped in areas under its control by armed forces. Thank you for following this situation with all the seriousness it deserves and for addressing this issue with your counterpart on 21 January. This seems to me to be a matter of great concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u137	We now come to Question No 55012532C by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, who does not appear on Zoom.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u138	Madam President, allow me to make it clear that Belgium is striving for a world without nuclear weapons. Our first goal is peace and security. Disarming must contribute to peace and security and must not be separated from it as an end in itself. The objective of a nuclear-free world can therefore only be achieved in a gradual, balanced and verifiable manner, primarily on the basis of disarmament agreements between the nuclear states. As the coalition agreement stipulates, the Non-Proliferation Treaty remains the cornerstone for Belgium's non-proliferation of nuclear weapons as well as for nuclear disarmament. The coalition agreement also stipulates that we will work with NATO members to see how the Nuclear Ban Treaty can give new impetus to multilateral nuclear disarmament, but without prejudice to our commitments and commitments within NATO. We note that the position of our NATO counterparts has not changed. In a statement on 15 December 2020, NATO confirmed its position vis-à-vis the Nuclear Ban Treaty. NATO has reiterated that there is no provision in the Treaty for the verification of disarmament and that no nuclear-owned country has signed it. The Treaty also contains elements that threaten to weaken other nuclear arms control treaties and regimes. For all these reasons, the Belgian position regarding the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons has not changed, but Belgium recognises the risks associated with the current status quo and understands the impatience of many because of the slow progress in nuclear disarmament. Our country is also convinced that the consequences of the use of nuclear weapons, whether intentional or accidental, are catastrophic and that the control and reduction of nuclear weapons are therefore top priorities. Belgium is profiling itself strongly to underline the importance of additional efforts in the field of nuclear disarmament. Belgium has long urged the extension of the New START Treaty between the United States and Russia, as this is the only remaining limit on strategic nuclear weapons. We will repeat that message to the new US administration that will take office on 20 January. Moreover, we must move towards a reduction in both strategic and non-strategic nuclear weapons. These are realistic opportunities for nuclear disarmament. For the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference, Belgium will strengthen its active role in areas such as promoting the entry into force of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty or supporting the construction of a reliable nuclear disarmament verification system. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons enters into force on 22 January, as the threshold of 50 countries that have ratified the Treaty has been reached. However, no nuclear weapons have ratified this treaty, which means that its consequences will be purely symbolic. As long as the nuclear powers do not join the Treaty, Belgium will continue to focus on real, effective non-proliferation instruments. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons does not contain any verification or implementation mechanism, which is also an important deficiency. In order to achieve its objectives, Belgium must concentrate on an effective solution. I look forward to continuing the debate in future, in dialogue with all interested parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u139	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your answers. I asked my question because the UN ban treaty will enter into force in January. We believe that the TPNW can make an important contribution to nuclear disarmament. First and foremost, the Treaty can stimulate nuclear disarmament by helping to create a normative platform at multilateral level, with more and more states being able to join. The possession of nuclear weapons can therefore be regarded as less and less acceptable. In this way, it can stimulate multilateral nuclear disarmament. That was also meant in the coalition agreement. The Treaty does contain verification mechanisms, both for non-proliferation and for disarmament. For this disarmament, safeguards would be laid down in a binding multilateral treaty. For that, of course, we need the states with nuclear weapons. It makes no sense if they do not want to come to the table, for it is they who should disarm. Someone's got to take the lead in that. Several European Member States together, including Belgium, could play a leading role in this. I also notice that the social debate is shifting on this and is getting back on track. In my opinion, the TPNW can also do so without compromising certain obligations that we have and it can go beyond mere symbolism. We look forward to continuing with you the debate on what steps Belgium can take to contribute to multilateral nuclear disarmament and thus contribute to the implementation of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u140	Madam President, I would like to make a point. Our Ambassador in Ankara and his counterparts in the European Union were not summoned by President Erdogan. In diplomacy, a summons usually follows a specific event and corresponds to a gesture of diplomatic disapproval by the host country. The meeting that took place on 12 January, first with Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu, and then with President Erdogan accompanied by several of his ministers, responded to a wish expressed by the European Union's representation in Ankara. It was therefore the European diplomatic representatives who were seeking this exchange. Minister Çavuşoğlu and President Erdogan reviewed a wide range of issues for which they outlined the Turkish position. These presentations confirmed that the positions of the European Union and Turkey remain, for some of the dossiers, distant from each other. I am thinking, for example, of the recent war in Nagorny Karabakh, the purchase of the Russian S-400 anti-aircraft system or the Council of Europe's recommendations to Turkey on human rights and the rule of law. The main message, however, was that Turkey would eventually see its future within the European Union and that it would consider a programme of internal reforms in order to put Turkey's candidacy back on track. In the shorter term, Turkey wishes to update the March 2016 declaration on migration, but also addressed other European issues of importance to Turkey, such as periodic high-level meetings, political dialogues, accession negotiations, visa liberalisation and the modernisation of the Customs Union. After these two long presentations, little time was devoted to the ambassadors' questions. In these circumstances, unfortunately, this meeting did not allow messages to be passed on to the Turkish side. At the European Councils on 1 October and 10 December 2020, a strong message was sent to Turkey: we want to enter into dialogue, but we do not back down on sanctions. The Turkish will to resume dialogue, at the highest political level, is a positive development. The announcement of domestic reforms is just as much, but let us not be naive: such promises have also been made in the past. Unfortunately, they were not redeemed. Therefore, let there be no doubt about it: Belgium expects the Turkish authorities to take action. Ankara must effectively undertake democratic reforms in its own country and thus achieve convergence in the European Union. Turkey must exchange the path of confrontation in the eastern Mediterranean for the path of dialogue and consultation. The outstretched Turkish hand is therefore a step in the right direction. On Thursday 21 January I will receive my Turkish counterpart, Minister Çavuşoğlu. I expect an honest conversation between allies, with open sights. Our bilateral relations and relations between the EU and Turkey are on the agenda. In addition, as always, the human rights issue in Turkey will also be addressed, as will Turkish foreign policy. The expectations and concerns I share with Parliament will be underlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u141	Minister, I am quite on the same page. I welcome the very strong words you have had about the Erdogan regime and I note that Belgian and European diplomacy has evolved considerably in its relations with Turkey. Nagorny Karabakh is perhaps the only element that can be removed from this war. It was the red line that Turkey crossed, supporting the Aliyev regime but also, in particular, using Syrian drones and militias brought by Turkey on that ground. Nor do I forget all the other elements that you recalled, such as the S-400, and the rule of law in Turkey. I would point out in passing that Turkey continues to bomb the Kurds in Syria. Little is said about it, but it does, especially in the vicinity of the city of Ain Issa, until it comes to injure Russia, which is, however, benevolent towards it. There is a whole series of extremely heavy and serious dossiers concerning Turkey. There is no question today of being naive about a president who feels, at last, a little pressure on his shoulders from Europe and who also sees the change of US presidency coming. It is time to adopt a very firm attitude towards what the European Council has described as an aggressive and illegal attitude on the part of Turkey. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u142	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I think you are right to point out that in the past Turkey has been a charming offensive once in a while, although it has always been short-lived. It is perhaps not a coincidence that it is coming now, since there will be a Council in March on which sanctions against Turkey will have to be decided. You say that Turkey sees its future in the European Union, which we can indeed derive from the words that are now being spoken from Turkey. In fact, I think you can pronounce the name of the Turkish Foreign Minister very well; I myself am not going to risk it. However, you have not really expressed your opinion or the opinion of the government in response to the question of a possible place for Turkey in the European Union as a Member State. In our view, that is absolutely not the case and there can never be a place for Turkey within the European Union. Some kind of partnership can be considered, because we are already in a customs union with Turkey, but Turkey can never become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u143	Minister, what do you know about this European Commission project? Do you have any additional information on its concrete content? Do you already have a vision of a possible timetable? Finally, what is Belgium's position on such a proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u144	Madam Minister, as more and more countries will vaccinate the population and the corona contamination will decrease, there will also be more and more voices to lift (European) travel restrictions again. A coordinated European approach is absolutely preferable, but it is up to the Member States to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed informed of the Commission's intentions to introduce a vaccination certificate for all citizens of the European Union. An initial reflection was initiated within the Commission's technical services and this issue was first addressed in the European Committee on Health Safety, composed of the Member States, as well as in a round table under the EU's integrated framework for a political response in crisis situations. Discussions include the conditions and criteria to be used to determine who will be in possession of this vaccination certificate. The exact role and scope of this document still need to be defined. At the moment, therefore, we expect the European Commission to make a concrete proposal on the basis of this thinking. As soon as more precise proposals are put forward, an intra-Belgian consultation will take place to determine our position on this matter. I agree with you that the debate on individual freedoms is crucial in this debate. It is already clear that this document must not infringe individual freedoms for Belgium and must not lead to discrimination between EU citizens. It should also not hinder cross-border mobility which is particularly important for Belgium. It seems to me essential to continue to defend a common European approach on these subjects and in the fight against covid-19 in general; this is, in my view, the only possible way in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u146	Madam Minister, thank you. It is true that this common vaccination certificate is a document which cannot hinder or impair individual freedoms or the mobility of a number of people who, for health reasons, would not have the opportunity to have access to it. I thank you for remaining extremely vigilant with regard to the protection of these freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u147	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We do need to look at the vaccination passport. There are so many things that are connected to that. It is very important not to conflict with fundamental rights and freedoms if it is to come about. We need to see how and when we can do that, and with what modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u148	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, with regard to your question on returning Belgian nationality to metises, I refer first of all to the answer I gave in committee on 16 December. For more information on this particular point, I invite you to address you to the Minister of Justice, as nationality falls within his competence. In answer to your second question, about facilitating the search of meteorites for their descent, I can tell you that several steps have already been taken by the FPS Foreign Affairs. First of all, in May 2019 the department gave the necessary instructions, so that the Belgian metises of colonial origin can receive help from our embassy and diplomatic posts in accordance with the Belgian regulatory framework in order to identify their African biological parents. Furthermore, the Belgian ambassador to the Holy See raised the question of access to archives at the relevant religious congregation in Rome. In addition, a research project was launched, the first phase of which started on 1 September 2019, under the joint leadership of the FPS Home Affairs, which finances the research, and the General National Archives. Work is being carried out on the creation of a database of the individual, family and collective trajectories of the colonial metises, the purpose of which is to provide the metises and their right holders who request them to provide the references of all the identified files relating to them and of the place where they are kept. For a state of affairs, I refer to the reply I gave in committee on 16 December 2020. As far as access to colonial archives is concerned, I can report that the FPS Foreign Affairs has decided to declassify its colonial archives and transfer them to the General National Archives. That transfer is in full swing. However, a large proportion of these archives must be treated as fungus prior to the transfer because of superficial deterioration. The transfer has also been delayed by the current health situation. We believe that the transfer of the archives that depend on the FPS Foreign Affairs Office will take a few more years. However, this does not prevent the documents from remaining accessible to the research project. The department is also in contact with other federal services for the declassification and transfer of parts of the colonial archives that are in our possession but partly under their jurisdiction. Finally, I would like to stress that both my department and the federal government will continue to support the commemoration and further implementation of the meti resolution in accordance with the government agreement of 30 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u149	Madam Minister, with this question, I would like to focus on the state of play regarding the implementation of the parliamentary resolution on the segregation of the metes from Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, which was unanimously adopted by the Chamber on 29 March 2018. The resolution recognises the suffering of the sons and daughters of Belgian colonials who were taken from their mothers by the colonial authorities and placed in Belgian homes. Restoration for the metises is absolutely necessary. A first step is to gain more knowledge of one's own descent. I'm gonna keep following up on this. It goes without saying that the special committee 'Congo', of which I am the chairman, will also pay due attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u150	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, I can confirm that the government actually intends to ratify Protocol No. 16. The Council of State gave its opinion on 29 September 2020, which states that Protocol No 16 has a mixed character, i.e. it falls within the competence of the federal authority and those of the Communities and Regions. Protocol 16 must therefore be submitted to the Joint Treaty Working Group, which is a working group of the Interdepartmental Foreign Policy Conference. This working group on mixed treaties will have to take a decision on the nature of this protocol, i.e. whether it is a joint competence or exclusively a federal competence. Once this group has taken a decision and it has been approved by the Interdepartmental Foreign Policy Conference, the consent procedure will continue at the federal level through the tabling of the Bill of Consent in the House. In the event that Protocol No 16 is declared mixed, it will have to be approved by the House and by the Parliaments of the Communities and/or Regions. In this case, the deposit of the instrument of ratification may take place once all the competent Parliaments have agreed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u151	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I think that many citizens will be happy to hear the news that the protocol will indeed be ratified. Thank you also for this afternoon's question and answer marathon, which is going on in the evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u152	Madam President, as you know, the situation in Ethiopia in the UN Security Council was also discussed at the request of our country. The provisional last time this happened was on 14 December, at the explicit request of Belgium, Germany, Estonia, France, the United Kingdom and the United States. Now that Belgium is no longer a member of the UN Security Council, an important lever has been lost for our country to raise the issue in the Council. There is no evidence for the time being that the new composition of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) has become a member, inter alia, of neighbouring Kenya on 1 January............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The UN Security Council is united in recognising the humanitarian crisis, the related needs and the importance of action by the African Union, but views on the nature of the conflict still differ. For some Members, this is a purely internal Ethiopian issue, which is also the view of the Ethiopian authorities, while others stress the threat to regional peace and security. The use of the responsibility to protect doctrine is only possible in the framework of a UN Security Council resolution. As you know, I have repeatedly argued that humanitarian workers could operate freely on Ethiopian territory. I did the same at the Foreign Affairs Council. It is therefore positive that access to humanitarian aid, respect for international humanitarian law, the protection of civilians and the security of humanitarian workers are included in the statement by High Representative Josep Borrell, on behalf of the 27 EU Member States, published on 25 December. It communicated that position to Ethiopian Deputy Prime Minister Mekonnen during a discussion on 9 January 2021. With regard to the humanitarian situation, I would like to refer to Minister Kitir. Finally, although the initiatives of envoys at the highest level in the African Union and the region have so far not been effective, we must nevertheless try to ensure that African solutions are found. We hope that the results of these multilateral meetings will enable the region to make progress towards a sustainable solution, in accordance with international obligations and in particular international humanitarian law. This is also the EU's position following the 20 December 2020 Summit. Mrs Van Hoof, the border tensions between Sudan and Ethiopia around the Al-Fashqa region are an additional reason for calling for dialogue. The situation in the region is volatile and it is important to avoid additional points of conflict. Belgium will continue to promote respect for international humanitarian rights, a lasting solution to tensions through dialogue and a leading role of the African Union and the countries of the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u153	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. The situation on the ground remains worrying. There is clearly still too little progress, both politically, diplomatically and humanitarianly. I had tabled my question following a new report published on 6 January and published by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, which describes the situation. You are right to say that a regional solution may be possible, but you know that unfortunately the Ethiopian Prime Minister has reaffirmed that this is a purely national matter, so there is still work to be done. The lever in the UN may have been lost for our country, but I think we should try to continue to put the issue on the table, especially through the European Union, in all its facets, i.e. politically, diplomaticly, but certainly also humanitarianly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u154	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is clear that the population is suffering from the fact that no clear line can be drawn at UN level. The EU's position is very clear. That is a good thing, but it does not seem to make any progress on the ground. The only solution would be to work through the African Union or through regional cooperation, but there too there is a regional conflict with Eritrea and Sudan, which are involved. I fear that there will also be different camps there. Meanwhile, the population is suffering. I believe that we urgently need to make it clear, at multilateral or bilateral level, that humanitarian aid is needed and that humanitarian corridors need to be formed. I can only argue in favour of this and hope that people will understand that this is a very serious problem for the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u155	Mrs Hanus and Mr De Vuyst are absent. Debates of the European Parliament 55012688C by Mrs Samyn has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u156	Madam President, allow me to clarify first. Germany and France, together with other Member States, have indeed suspended their extradition agreement with Hong Kong and not with China. This decision, which follows on from the imposition of the new Security Act, was intended to send a strong political signal, but is undoubtedly also explained by the fact that the context has changed considerably since the signing of such agreements. Recent events in Hong Kong confirm that the rule of law has been put under pressure. In turn, Belgium does not have an extradition agreement with Hong Kong. However, we do have an extradition agreement with China, which entered into force on 26 December 2020, after both parties had completed their ratification process. As far as I know, the European Member States that have extradition agreements with China are not currently considering suspending them. I would remind you that the existence of an extradition treaty is intended to facilitate the extradition of persons within the framework of international criminal cooperation and that such a convention is essential to the fight against certain serious forms of crime, including organised crime. The treaty between China and Belgium provides a legal framework for the expulsion of convicted persons. The framework provides guarantees to the parties, as it lays down not only conditions but also grounds for refusal, such as refusal of extradition if the claimed person is liable to be sentenced to the death penalty for the offence contained in the extradition request or is liable to be subjected to torture. It also concerns the refusal to extradite and refusal to extradite if the requested party has already given a final judgment against the person to be designated. The Convention also excludes extradition on political grounds in Article 3. The same Article also includes the prohibition of extradition where the requested State has serious reasons to believe that the request for extradition is being made to prosecute or punish the endorsed person for reasons relating to race, sex, religion, nationality or political opinion or where extradition could exacerbate the situation of that person for one of those reasons. I would also like to remind you that the request for extradition is in any case being examined by the judiciary. All conditions mentioned above shall be carefully analysed with regard to each extradition request. The question of political refugees coming from China and Hong Kong, and their numbers, falls within the competence of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. I can assure you that we remain very alert to any developments that may still occur in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u157	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, a country such as China's confidence in respect for human rights and rights in a fair trial, if any, can be considered particularly naive. I am not saying that it is the case here, but you know or should know that China will interpret every condition or security mechanism of the treaty you mention and its elaboration as it pleases, and that China, if necessary, wants to achieve its goal by means of a misguided reason. No sane man doubts that. How carefully it will be monitored or screened, you know that this opportunity is very real. In our view, therefore, it is incomprehensible that Belgium ratifies such an extradition treaty with China, a country where the Uighurs are in concentration camps, which we discussed earlier, where Falun-Gonganghangers are tortured and where democratic opposition members are imprisoned in Hong Kong. Moreover, the extradition treaty was initially set up by the Swiss Government and is now being ratified by governmental parties such as Ecolo-Green, PS and sp.a, which, however, had already raised major objections to this convention. All the fine words about human rights and respect for democracy by those parties appear to be in that respect. Questions remain about the possibilities of control, which happens afterwards after possible extradition and whether the control still exists; there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. What if China doesn't keep its promises? Can that be followed? Can there possibly be sanctioned? That is very unclear at the moment. Maybe that's non-existent, but at least they're hollow words. When such an agreement is concluded with a country like China, all red lights must be lit out of vigilance. I would like to warn again, as I did when discussing your policy letters, of the naive Beijing policy that this government uses. A number of states have not concluded or refuse to do so. Belgium should have done the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u158	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I would like to say that our group is very concerned about the consequences of this possible treaty, especially in view of what is happening in China, which is still carrying out the death penalty. We have had a long debate here today on China and human rights, and we would like to express that concern. I would just like to say to Mrs Ponthier that in November 2018 we abstained from the draft law that allowed the Treaty to be ratified. We had all our concerns then and our position is still the same. I think that Green too abstained at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u159	Mr Dallemagne, two months after the signing of the ceasefire declaration in Nagorny Karabakh, however, many issues remain outstanding, including the involvement of United Nations agencies in various aspects of the implementation of the agreement, including humanitarian aspects and issues related to cultural heritage. It is the responsibility of the Minsk Group, the only legitimate international forum, not only to relaunch the diplomatic process with a view to a lasting and negotiated peace, but also to articulate the answers to the various outstanding issues, including respect for the cultural heritage with the relevant international organizations. In this connection, I would like to point out that the Minsk Group will meet in Warsaw at the end of January. This meeting will be followed by a visit by the Co-Chairs to the region, the first since the end of hostilities. Belgium obviously supports the Minsk Group, but also the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, in order to intervene with the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Azerbaijan in order to guarantee the preservation and preservation of an exceptional heritage in all the territories concerned. During my meeting with my Azerbaijani counterpart, Mr Bayramov, on 18 December, the day after my meeting with my Armenian counterpart, Mr Aivazian, I indicated, with reference to the European past, the importance of looking to the future, of looking at how lasting peace can be established and consolidated, despite the resentments of the two peoples in the wake of recent clashes. Building on the good relations between our respective countries, I stressed the importance of allowing a United Nations mission to visit the country as soon as possible in order to assess urgent and necessary needs. While it is important to preserve the Armenian cultural heritage in Nagorny Karabakh, account must also be taken of the rest of the cultural heritage of Nagorny Karabakh and its immediate surroundings, in other words the Azeri cultural heritage in the seven districts surrounding Nagorny Karabakh. Following the 1992 and 1993 conflicts, these seven districts were occupied by Armenia for 25 years and many mosques, sometimes several hundred years old, were destroyed during the clashes and left behind. In this regard, the Azerbaijani side states that it has no objection to the arrival of a UNESCO mission to investigate the Armenian cultural heritage in Nagorny Karabakh, provided that the organizational modalities of the mission are negotiated with Baku and that the mission's mandate covers both Nagorny Karabakh and the seven Azeri districts. In conclusion, I can assure you that our country will continue, both bilaterally and within the EU, to stress the importance of preserving the invaluable cultural heritage of Nagorny Karabakh and its direct surroundings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u160	Madam Minister, as much as I have been satisfied with many of your answers to my questions, so much here I am disappointed because the only moment when you refer to the destruction of cultural heritage, by clearly naming it, is the destruction that would have taken place with regard to the Azeri cultural heritage in the seven cantons around Nagorny Karabakh. It is known that there have also been massive destructions of Armenian cultural heritage, particularly in Nakhichevan and Azerbaijan. What I ask you to do is to ensure that the UNESCO mission is able to visit the site without further delay. I am shocked that this United Nations mission has still not been able to do its work in Azerbaijan. I am extremely concerned because I know, like you, this Azerbaijan regime. It's a dictatorship. I also know his ability to conceal facts, to exploit public opinion and his true hatred of Armenians when we see social networks. I am extremely concerned about what might happen to this heritage. I really ask that you insist strongly that this heritage be protected and that we be able to name things. That is indeed necessary. There has been destruction on both sides, including on the Armenian side. I myself witnessed the destruction of Shuchi Cathedral by Armenian bombings. It could hardly be said that these were random bombings because they took place around the cathedral. There was no destruction in the neighborhoods around, but the cathedral had been destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u161	If I can allow myself a reaction to what you have just said, Mr Dallemagne, because I do not want us to understand each other wrong: the fact that there was no more important quotation, equal to or less important than the other, does not attest to the fact that I do not believe that there has been any destruction of the Armenian heritage. That's the opposite! I believe that the answer has been formulated humanely, without denying the destruction of Armenian heritage. Like you, I regret that there has not yet been a visit from the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u162	Madam President, as you said, I immediately condemned the arrest of Russian opponent Aleksej Navalny on his return to Russia on Sunday 17 January. I call on the Russian authorities to release him immediately and to respect the human rights of all Russian citizens. This appeal also applies to the approximately 50 persons arrested at the same time as Mr Navalny. Aleksej Navalny returned to Moscow after a five-month recovery period he spent in Germany, after his poisoning with novichok in August 2020. The official allocation of responsibility for this poisoning remains problematic, especially since Russia has not launched an investigation and does not cooperate with the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. According to the Russian authorities, his arrest on his return to Russia is justified for violating the conditions of a conditional prison sentence imposed on him in 2014 for embezzlement. This conviction seems to be politically motivated. The Navalny case is characteristic of the general climate in Russia, where uncertainty and arbitrariness prevail. This arrest confirms a general trend, observed in the run-up to the parliamentary elections scheduled for autumn 2021. Space for civil society, opposition and independent voices is becoming increasingly limited in Russia. There has been no contact with the Russian ambassador since the arrest of Aleksej Navalny, but we express our concern about this dossier during regular bilateral contacts. Belgium, like our European partners, condemns the Russian attitude towards Mr Navalny, not only for the poisoning with novichok, but also for his arrest. Following the poisoning of Aleksandr Navalny, European restrictive measures were taken in October. They target six individuals and one enterprise. The arrest of Navalny and the latest developments in the field of human rights and freedom of expression will be taken into account in the definition of EU policy towards Russia. The 27 EU Member States adopted a declaration to this effect on Monday 18 January. The politicisation of the legal system is unacceptable and the rights of political opponents must be respected. I will discuss this further with my European colleagues at the Foreign Affairs Council, which is scheduled for next Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u163	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that you were one of the first to condemn that arrest. That was a strong signal. Over the last few days, we have talked a lot about freedom of expression and freedom of the press. In the meantime, there is virtually no such thing in Russia. The same applies to the rule of law, you mentioned the strong politicisation. I hope that we will continue to follow this closely and take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u164	I am also looking forward to what else will happen at European level. Member States have called for further sanctions. This will be an important test case for the European Magnitsky Act, which was adopted in December. I am curious to see whether agreement can be reached at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u165	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for referring to your written question, and above all for asking it. Your concern about the health situation in Lebanon is indeed legitimate, since it is difficult. We regret that in Lebanon, some patients affected by covid-19 are now being forced to be treated on the streets and even inside vehicles, due to the saturation of Beirut hospitals. At this time, no further requests for assistance have been made by the Lebanese Government to our country or to the European Union. If that were to be the case, be assured that these requests will be considered immediately by my services. I also confirm that in 2021 we will continue to support Lebanon through our humanitarian aid, which reached EUR 10.7 million in 2020. On other questions concerning humanitarian aid, I invite you to ask my colleague the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u166	Thank you, Minister. I hear that because of a lack of demand for humanitarian assistance, no action has been taken to support the Lebanese people, even though you recognize the seriousness of the situation. But there is still a political crisis, along with the health crisis. Therefore, I invite you to show proactivity in this regard. If there is one thing that has been highlighted by the health crisis, it is solidarity, not only in our own country, but also in other countries. We have strong ties with this country and with the NGOs that work there. We also have medical equipment that could be loaned. Nevertheless, I invite you to give real thought to the fact that these levers are being activated for the benefit of the Lebanese.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u167	Madam President, Mrs Hanus, there is close and intense health cooperation between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Since the end of 2020, numerous consultations on the management of the covid-19 crisis have taken place, in particular through the Belgian-Luxembourg Joint Commission, in which the SPF Foreign Affairs and the Luxembourg Ministry of Foreign Affairs participated. Belgium informed Luxembourg of the wish to take stock of the various cross-border agreements. This proposal aims to improve cross-border collaboration and to fill any gaps that have emerged during the covid crisis. Evaluation of cross-border collaboration for a framework agreement on health cooperation will certainly be part of this overall exercise. On 11 December, the European Monitoring Centre for Transfrontier Health made a presentation on the various cross-border health cooperation. It concluded on several proposals, one of which concerned cooperation in the field of health between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Our embassy in Luxembourg is following this file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u168	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The pandemic teaches us that transfers of patients with covid-19 have been organised between France and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Our mainly German-speaking fellow citizens suffering from the same pathology were able to be accommodated in German establishments. The Commission has allocated a budget of EUR 220 million to organise these transfers. As you said, on December 11, 2020, the regional health ministers of the Greater Region signed a declaration of intent to develop structured mutual assistance during this pandemic and to deal with future health crises that may emerge. We must therefore welcome the awareness and these initiatives, but above all we must equip ourselves with legal instruments at international level to enable the health cooperation which we call for to develop in the border areas of our country and with our closest friends, mainly the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which is part of the Benelux. A health cooperation agreement with this neighbouring and friendly country has always lacked our international legal instruments to create a legal basis for health cooperation and to achieve the objectives of the European Union and the Greater Region in this area. I will not hesitate to come back to you for follow-up on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic340x.u169	My question No. 55012738C may be converted into a written question.
