ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, I have a question about the Coronalert app. In the past, I have asked a number of questions about this. What about using that app? While the download figures were good, with a few millions of people downloading the app, it turned out that the app wasn't used very often. Downloading the app is one thing, but that doesn't mean that people don't take the app off their phone again after checking it. It turned out that a lot of people downloaded the app and watched it work, but didn't use it afterwards. So I want to know if there are any new figures on the number of downloads. How many people who turn out to be infected are going to enter that in their phones? That is another important figure that we would like to know. Because even there it turned out that only 20% to 50% of people did. That's a problem. When I made this exercise in December 2020 with all the figures that show that someone was positive, it turned out that only 4 to 5 percent of Belgians use the app to inform other people about it. Is that getting any better? What about the distribution between the French-language and Dutch-language figures? There we also saw an important discrepancy, which shows that the app is used much more often in Flanders. I'd like to know from you if it's still true. Why is that? What's the problem? Does this have to do with the fact that people in the south of the country are less well digital? Or does it have to do with the fact that there is quite scepticism against a number of things such as 5G telephony, vaccination and so on? Hence my questions. I hope you can give an interesting answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u2	Dear representative of the people, I had received four questions from you. The first three questions are about statistics. As for your first three questions, I invite you to consult the website coronatracking.info, which you may know. You will find all the updated figures on the downloads, the positive test results and how many alerts were already sent. In reply to your other questions, I can tell you that it is true that the share of downloads in Flanders is higher than in Wallonia. However, for further clarification on this point, I would like to refer you to my fellow Minister for Health who is responsible for the app.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I will look at the figures on the website. I didn't know that every day or every week there was an updated version with the number of downloads. That's interesting information. I will also put the question to the Minister of Health. I'd like to ask you not to just bounce the ball away. This is about digitization. For me, especially when it comes to using the app, this is not a pure public health matter. When it comes to public health, I can imagine that the figures are being taken into account, namely the number of positive tests. This is a case of digitisation, which is your domain and in which you can play a major role, by ensuring that people across the country, regardless of whether they are French or Dutch speaking, use the existing digital tools. I would therefore ask you to do something about this, albeit in cooperation with your colleague in the health sector and with the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament 55013386C by Mrs Julie Chanson will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as you know, the problems and debates surrounding the regulation of social networks are becoming increasingly important. At the level of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we are particularly concerned about this subject. You have recently spoken in the press about this. This is a problem that we are discussing in Parliament, but not enough in our opinion. I know you're also interested. I think that this is a major issue, whether it is in terms of democracy - the impact of algorithms on our democracy, on the functioning of the democratic debate - but also, and my colleague refers to it in her question, and it is fundamental, the fight against discrimination, online harassment and online hatred which unfortunately exists and which is increasingly present. Unfortunately, there is no shortage of examples in society. That is a matter of great concern. Recently, in the daily Le Soir, you demanded "transparency on the management of editorial content on platforms". As an example, you mention the possibility of integrating the main fundamental rights into platform algorithms. I think the intention is really positive. Be aware that you will always have the support of my group for these kinds of intentions. Mr Secretary of State, what is your vision on the potential regulation of these platforms, which are, as we know, private actors (mainly GAFAMs)? Above all, they are developing their own ethical codes. They react, but according to their own values. For us, it would be fundamental, at Belgian or European level, that values linked to our democracies and parliaments be put forward. What framework do you want to put in place at national level, and what is your vision and action you plan to take in relation to the Digital Services Act announced at European level? The debates are under way, and I wanted to see if you also had a position on the matter. By what mechanisms or principles do you wish to bring transparency into the content published on the platforms? Would you like to go to a concept where a user could be systematically informed of the reason why a publication is presented to him on his current thread? On the integration of fundamental values into algorithms, which you mentioned in your statements in the press, do you think it is feasible for artificial intelligence to appreciate ethics and values? Or would it rather mean that a publication, for example anti-Semitic, racist or homophobic, would be identified as not respecting fundamental rights? These are complex debates, but I already wanted to question you at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, a hot topic of topicality and difficult to solve is that of what is known as hat specheches on the internet and also the acts of harassment on social networks. We need to address this issue. Several fundamental values, including freedom of expression, are a right but can sometimes become complementary difficulties in relation to this phenomenon of hate speeches and cyber-harassment. It is difficult to find adequate solutions. I myself have already done a lot of research and studies to find opportunities for better lawmaking, particularly in terms of the transparency of commentators on digital platforms. Many ethical codes are drawn up in our neighbours, EU Member States - a few months ago in the French National Assembly or Germany. Already in 2016, the German federal state had legislated. Can we draw inspiration from it, Secretary of State? Do you already have any avenues for useful work?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u7	I thank you, Member, for your questions, which are fundamental. I am convinced that both the role of civil society and that of Parliament will be essential to answer these questions. As I indicated in my political orientation paper, social media undoubtedly has a profound impact on everyday life in our society. In addition to the many opportunities, certain abuses can have a destructive impact on the functioning of our democracy and the rule of law, and even on the individuals themselves. The mass of hate speech on the Internet, radicalisation and online harassment, phenomena such as fake news or misinformation must be combated rigorously and effectively. In this context, I am well aware of the decision of the Brussels majority. Regulation of platforms and social media, which are partly vectors of this cyber-harassment, has become a major issue. Two aspects can be highlighted in this respect: firstly, in terms of form, this regulation requires a European framework which, in my view, is the level best able to provide the best possible framework for social platforms and networks. The Digital Services Act is, in this sense, a fundamental instrument in establishing an ambitious, effective and proportionate legal framework for regulating the content moderation function on digital platforms. It is the tool that will ensure the protection of our democracy and the rights and freedoms of everyone, including the freedom of expression of users of digital platforms. This European instrument mainly provides for measures to strengthen the obligations applicable to digital platforms, to ensure greater transparency in their activities and decisions and to strengthen cooperation between Member States and between competent authorities and platforms. It is clear that these European measures will have to be implemented and eventually supplemented by a national framework. Indeed, in addition to binding measures on digital platforms, the problem of combating cyberhaine also requires repressive and preventive measures at national level. On this point, I will refer to the measures currently being considered by my colleagues in the federal government, including the Minister of Justice, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, and the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, Mrs Schlitz. I'm coming to the bottom. The Digital Services Act already contains certain provisions aimed at enhancing transparency in content published on the largest platforms. These platforms must indicate, in their conditions of use, the main parameters used in setting up an automated recommendation system, together with a possibility for the user to modify or influence these parameters. In addition, these larger platforms are required to publish information about online advertising annually. These are essential provisions in the direction of a positive increase in the transparency of the content presented to the user. Still on the merits, Mr Vanden Burre, the question of respect for fundamental rights and ethics in the use of artificial intelligence is a fundamental issue that deserves particular attention. This issue requires more cross-cutting consideration in the European Union's work on artificial intelligence and in particular in the context of the future initiative expected in the first half of 2021. In this context and in the specific context of the Digital Services Act, it seems to me essential to ensure an obligation of transparency of intermediaries in the use of algorithms as well as human control in the use of algorithms for the detection of illegal content. Indeed, in view of the scale of the phenomenon of the dissemination of illegal content online, the use of automated tools is indispensable in order to detect such content. However, this type of tool cannot be sufficient in itself. Human control of any content detected as illegal and/or harmful by an automated tool is necessary. The hateful nature of a content must be examined from the perspective of its context, which cannot be achieved only in the context of artificial intelligence. Finally, on 25 September, Ms Jadin, the Interdepartmental Conference on Combating Racism adopted a starting note setting out the basic principles and strategic objectives of the National Action Plan against Racism. In order to increase adherence and maximize the impact of this action plan, a process involving the different levels of power, including the federal level and the federated entities, is being put in place. A technical working group on cyberhaine has also been set up to translate strategic objectives into operational objectives and concrete actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for this long reply, which is justified by the importance of the subject. The European level is best suited to regulate, especially in the face of companies, online platforms, GAFAM (Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft) and others. That makes sense. You also referred to the initiative taken by Sarah Schlitz and Vincent Van Quickenborne to combat hate speech. We will, of course, support the revision of the Constitution in this regard. Secondly, we also believe that we can move forward at the national level. You talked about reporting platforms. There is indeed more transparency, but according to their own ethical codes. Whether in Germany or France, reporting is different according to the laws of these countries. It would be important for the Belgian authorities to develop, whether through laws or a code of conduct, a Belgian code of conduct for the GAFAMs. I come to the rules for online election publications and advertisements. Today there are no social networks in Belgium, whereas in the case of the print press, the television press, etc. There is a real need to move forward in terms of regulation and the amount spent on election publications. Finally, an observatory should be set up. I know that all matters relating to ethics at the media level are the responsibility of the Communities. But I think that the same ethical control should be exercised for social networks as for the media. This must be considered in partnership with the Communities. We follow the case closely and encourage you to be proactive in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your complete answers. You mention the steps the government intends to take at European level to make a useful contribution to the fight against hate speeches and cyber-harassment. I'll be with you to lead this fight. I have already had the opportunity to question the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State about the part of the government agreement that concerns the fight against cyber-harassment and hate speech on social networks. I was also able to see that things seem to be moving forward correctly. Responsibilities and competences are shared with the Communities and efforts must be harmonized in order to achieve effective provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament 55014367C by Mrs Hanus will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, a barometer published at the end of August by the King Baudouin Foundation warns about the possible digital exclusion of a significant part of the Belgian population. According to this barometer, four out of ten Belgians are at the risk of such an exclusion. This problem is even more fundamental when we are aware of the phenomenon of digitization of our society in recent years. My questions about this are relatively simple. Have you been able to read this report? What actions can we therefore expect, without, of course, repeating everything that has already been developed in the general policy note that you set out?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u12	Madam Member, be assured, I am not going to carry out the whole of my policy brief. I'm actually joining you. I think you're right. The acceleration of digitalisation must obviously not exclude anyone. It is an essential element. In the government agreement, we committed to ensuring that public services remain accessible to all, including citizens with low digital skills, low incomes or disabilities. We were also committed to examining how a coherent and recognizable network of proximity and accessibility could be developed within existing public services to help citizens carry out their administrative tasks and use digital applications. Today, there is, in fact, not one form of exclusion, but a diversity of exclusions from digital technology. To answer this question, I believe it is therefore important to propose a variety of experiences for the most vulnerable users through multiple channels and mechanisms. This is the policy that I am developing through several initiatives currently under way. First of all, in terms of individual support for people, I have, for example, the digital public writer's patent project, which I have launched and which aims to densify a coherent network of proximity, in the capacity to help the most vulnerable people in their digital approaches. As part of the support for companies, as part of their digital transformation, my services are busy finalising a project of coaching and digital solidarity support. This free and specific support for the self-employed, TPE and SME will offer individual coaching sessions by professionals via the Internet and by telephone. Secondly, in terms of improving user interfaces and support services, I introduced in December last year in the Council of Ministers a framework market aimed at providing assistance to federal, regional and local authorities, as well as public law bodies, in order to make their mobile sites and applications more accessible and to be in compliance with the rules governing accessibility of websites and applications. Finally, I do not lose sight of the need to strengthen access to technology and support for the development of digital skills. A few weeks ago, I presented to the Council of Ministers the Inter-Federal Inter-sectoral Women in Digital Plan, which contains strategic objectives for the advancement of women in the digital world, particularly in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. For my part, this is also a form of digital exclusion against which we need to put in place more inclusive teaching processes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. We're on the right track. We must take this reality to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u14	Questions Nos 55015477C and 55015479C by Ms Jadin are transformed into written questions. Mrs Reuter is not present for her question No. 55015200C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, the digital meters are being rolled out in our country, and this has been particularly noticeable in Flanders in recent months by what I can call the solar panels saga. With these digital meters, we can do quite a lot, as it collects a lot of information. I also think that digital meters can be a step forward in the way families in our country handle their energy consumption. The collection of all that information provides a lot of data. I found it remarkable to learn that Fluvius, a network manager in Flanders, concludes data contracts, making these data available to other organisations. When it comes to organisations with a public purpose, I can still understand it, but KBC is a bank, moreover, with some commercial interests. Mr Secretary of State, what protection do data data from digital meters fall under? Can a distribution system operator, who actually installs the digital meters at the request of the government, decide to make that data available to private companies? Was the Data Protection Authority involved in the case or are you planning to inform the Data Protection Authority about it? What is your opinion on the provision of data from digital meters for the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u16	Mr Popular Representative, on the regulation of the introduction of digital meters in the Flemish Region, the Data Protection Authority has issued several opinions, the latest of which in 2018. In addition, the Decree of the Flemish Region of 26 April 2019 amending the Energy Decree of 8 May 2009 and introducing, inter alia, the digital energy meter on 14 January 2009 was the subject of a judgment of the Constitutional Court. As regards the Regulation as such, the Data Protection Authority has identified several concerns and concerns regarding data protection. These include the effective framework of the risks of random consultation, the independence of the data protection officer with respect to the controller and whether or not sufficient support in the performance of his or her tasks, the setting up of a data warehouse and the comparison and cross-checking of data with private entities, the monitoring of risks through a data protection impact assessment and additional transparency for the network user. In its judgment of 14 January in relation to the plea relating to the protection of personal data, the Constitutional Court found that the decree-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law-law- As regards more specifically the provision of data and private companies, such as in the framework of the cooperation between KBC and Fluvius, I would remind you that sensitivity and caution are necessary, given the risks of interference in privacy. Any such initiative must comply with the rules on data protection laid down in the GDPR. The provision of data to a private undertaking shall in particular comply with the principles of necessity and proportionality and shall be carried out in accordance with one of the processing principles set out in Article 6 of the GDPR, inter alia with the consent of the user. My services have asked the Data Protection Authority whether it has been aware of the monitoring of the data transmission between Fluvius and KBC, but I have not yet received a reply in this respect in view of the time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u17	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. The energy market is very complex today. Mrs Jadin referred earlier to a report by the King Baudouin Foundation. In its report on the problems faced by people with the payment of their energy bills, it noted that digital meters' data could best be used by first and second-line services to help people with their energy consumption. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. However, when it comes to commercial institutions, such as banks, the question arises as to what they will do with this data. In relation to price comparison, it appears that a number of firms also serve commercial interests. I think that your message is that we should be careful and show the necessary caution, and that we should certainly welcome it. You have also asked a question about this and I will certainly ask a follow-up question. Finally, I have read that permission must be given for the use of data from its digital meter. That raises the question of whether I have ever ticked a field of consent and, if so, whether it will be valid forever. Or should I regularly reaffirm that one may use the data of my digital meter? There is a new exchange of views on these interesting questions. So I will certainly question you about that. I thank you for today's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u18	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, last week you expressed the ambition to make Belgium a smart nation, especially in the area of e-government. That is right, given our delay in relation to the other Member States of the EU. Belgium is only in the fifteenth place with regard to the digitisation of public services. Companies in Belgium are still faced with far too high administrative and regulatory burdens that weigh on the entrepreneurial environment and our competitiveness. SMEs and start-ups in particular have difficulty with this. The aim of reducing administrative burdens and quality regulation is a necessary reform and should be a priority. After all, this is the cheapest relief measure for our economy. We really shouldn't have a bottleneck there anymore. A smart nation basically means that one can easily set up a company, even completely digitally, as can already be done in other countries. Belgium still has a long way to go here, especially to make it easier for start-ups. Mr Secretary of State, you stated in your policy paper that you will shortly propose a new Digital Plan Belgium. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What investment projects in the area of administrative simplification and digitisation were included in the draft Belgian Plan for Recovery and Resilience? What reforms were proposed for the relay? Will Belgium be able to transpose the most recent Company Directive by 1 August 2021? This Directive requires Member States to provide at least for certain types of companies for the possibility of a fully online establishment of a company. The Be App project was launched a few years ago and aims to create a single digital access point to public services for citizens and businesses. When will this project be finalized and operationalised? How will the e-Box be further developed? Will there be cooperation with the private sector? If so, with which companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, many of the sheets in the preliminary version of the Recovery Plan contain important aspects of administrative simplification and digitisation. As you know, these two aspects are fundamental and transversal for the government to develop a smart nation. They reflect the ambition I have shown in my general policy paper, in which I indicated to what extent it is intended that my powers within this government should be combined. I currently have four complete files within the Recovery and Resilience Plan. Firstly, the Single Digital Gateway, an EU regulation that should give European citizens and businesses faster and easier access to the online information and processes they need to live, study or work in another EU Member State. Secondly, a digital government serving citizens and businesses. This is an extension of the Single Digital Gateway, which aims to organise government services digitally and future-proof by setting up a digital portal as an interface with citizens and businesses. Thirdly, the e-government, which aims to reduce the burden on citizens and businesses. Belgium has already made significant progress in simplifying, streamlining and centralising procedures, notably through various plans and strategies, such as Digital Belgium, Open Data, e-government and so on. Finally, Unleashing Government Data, which aims to map government data so that they become more understandable, accessible and reliable and propose a new way of using the data for government, business and also citizens. Although I attach great importance to simplification in the field of the creation of a company.............................................................................................................................................................. Finally, the two Be App and e-Box projects are working on their implementation process. It's too early to announce anything. However, my aim is to simplify the lives of citizens and businesses by favouring exchanges between citizens and public administrations and between businesses and public administrations through these two applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, I already knew some of the different projects, but if they are included as an investment project, it is very important that we also manage to deal with them against deadlines. We really need to meet deadlines. Digitisation is a great ambition, as you say, and it is also, in part, a long-term work. It would be good if we in the committee could get an update on the projects that are very close to your heart. The same applies to the Be App and the e-Box, so that we get an update. That is the most important thing for me to be able to follow what you are doing, because it is very close to our heart and it is important that the government can achieve results in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, it is regularly said that European SMEs, often considered late in digitisation, would have taken advantage of this coronavirus pandemic to speed up this digitalisation objective. However, a recent study shows that this is not entirely the case. The Belgian company Sortlist surveyed 500 CEOs of SMEs in Belgium, France, Spain, Germany and the Netherlands. The result of the investigation is that only Spain would be at the cutting edge and would have accelerated its digitisation. Of the five countries surveyed, only 43% of SMEs report that the pandemic has accelerated this digitalisation. On the other hand, 30% say that their digitalization has been slowed down. These figures are challenging because we know that digital, as you often tell us, represents a real opportunity for the development of our companies. In the presentation of your policy, you highlighted two main objectives concerning the digitalisation of our companies: the provision of tools to enable companies to protect themselves from cyber attacks, but also an action plan allowing them to move more easily to e-commerce. What is the status of these objectives? Are any elements already in the process of being implemented? I look forward to hearing the details you will have to give me and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u22	Mrs Reuter, like you, I also went through the survey that you are quoting and which was carried out on 19 and 20 May 2020 by Sortlist which, moreover, is a particularly dynamic start-up in the context of the development and digitalisation of SMEs. I also invite you to expand your analysis in the light of the European Study DESI (Digital Economy and Society Index). The figures brought to our knowledge are also illuminating and quite favourable to our country: "Belgium is one of the first Member States of the European Union with regard to the use of digital technologies by companies, third out of 28 in 2020. Federal and regional initiatives have helped businesses move more and more digitally." I am convinced that we must go further, certainly as far as the self-employed, SMEs and TPEs are concerned. Beyond the figures in this survey, more specifically, the digitalization of businesses and their protection from cyber attacks are issues to which the government attaches great importance and which I am actively working on. With regard to cybersecurity, in collaboration with the Prime Minister as part of Crisis Plan Telecom 1, we launched, in mid-February, the Digital Response Plan, which consolidates all types of crisis procedures and addresses telecommunications, ransomware and phishing aspects to combat cyberattacks. Similarly, the CyberScan, designed specifically for all beginners, will offer personalized advice, while explaining technical details and offering a checklist of elements to improve in cybersecurity. As regards in particular the stimulation of the digitalisation of our companies and SMEs, my services are busy finalising a digital coaching project, Digital Solidaire, the idea being to offer free and specific support to TPE and SME self-employed people who encounter difficulties in digitising their professional activities. This support structure, which can be reached on the internet and by telephone, will offer individual coaching sessions by professionals. The aim is to encourage SMEs to digitise the communication and sales process and enable them to upgrade. This project is expected to be launched later this year. At the same time, my administration has also put in place a series of advices to assist companies in their efforts to create an e-commerce site. Through ten practical tips, companies can create their online shop, step by step, following the instructions given by a practical and didactic shop.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-17-definitief-55-commissie-ic410x.u23	Mr. Secretary of State, I recognize here your enthusiasm and your motivation to move forward in your projects. I congratulate you. I do believe that this digital coaching project for the self-employed is fundamental. I am delighted to hear that things will be put in place in the course of 2021. I invite you, of course, even if I know you do not need my advice, to communicate as much as possible to the companies that need it at the moment. This accompaniment will be very useful.
