ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u1	Minister, on the matter of the prioritisation of people with underlying diseases, is it absolutely clear which underlying diseases are being observed and how exactly they will be detected? As far as genome analyses are concerned, are they only carried out by the federal testing platform or also by clinical labs, since some labs have that equipment and methodology in their home? Was it discussed which clinical labs could possibly participate? Are the results of the new variants also collected? Can these be displayed on Sciensano's website? What is the impact of the variants on the forecasts we make? How do they influence policy? I'd also like to come back to the sewage analysis. I feel a little strengthened in that by Governor Berx, who stated so in the Corona Committee. She also finds it very important to get those figures because that way it is possible to detect clusters. Will policy-makers be able to see the statistics of the waste water analyses? They're here. Sciensano has also made a first brief report on this. Where are those numbers? They are very important if we are dealing with variants that cause clusters faster to notice them very quickly and to be able to intervene more quickly. I'll be back on the reports, too. Where can we find the GEMS reports, in which they advise on the non-medical contact professions? I still find that very unclear. Can't they be centralized somewhere? I don't find that report. It's not about the previous report, it's about the latter. What is your advice on the type of mask that is best worn? Do you advise to preferably wear surgical masks instead of substances, as is the case in different countries? What is the RAG's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I have brief questions because I asked them last time. It is a question of questions. 55012954C and 55012955C and they concern the use of volunteers for vaccination centres. Is that being organized federally? How many people have already registered for this? What are the federal guidelines on training and insurance? Do these volunteers need to be vaccinated? Specifically when it comes to home nurses, has a fee already been worked out for this? How high is it and how is it provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I would like to refer to my extensive written question No. 55013020C to which I do not have to add anything here and therefore do not have to take up the time of colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u4	Mr De Roover, my colleague tells me that this question was not answered. Can you tell me what that question is about? You don't have to put them all together, but I just want to be sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u5	On the powers conferred in the Ministerial Decision on the RSZ in relation to data mining and data matching, and in which the Data Protection Authority was not known in the division of that information from Sciensano. It's about question No. 55013020C.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u6	I do not seem to have an answer to that in my preparation. I'm afraid to improvise on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u7	I understand. Can you answer me in writing at the speed of an oral question? Written questions tend to be answered very late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u8	Of course. I'll try to get you a written answer soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u9	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u10	Minister, I would like to go into more detail about the order of the iClean swabs by the federal government. This has been done again by means of a negotiated procedure without publication. Today a number of things have already appeared on this subject in the Laatste Nieuws. That is a bit of an answer to the question I tabled on this last week, but not quite yet. Who was responsible for this order and who made the decision? How were the companies selected? How many companies were selected? Was there a transparent communication about the decision for these companies? Do you have any complaints about this order? Do you know if any non-compliant swabs are used in our country? It concerns microfibres that remain in the nose when the test is taken. Right now, I know about three swabs that didn't pass the abrasion test. Did you know about that? Are the flocked swabs sufficiently controlled? Especially if we test the contact professions weekly, this will be important for their health. Meanwhile, there is a new kind of shadow on the market, which is likely to respond to this complaint. How is the quality control performed on those swabs? What are the criteria to be met according to your services? Does the FAGG also carry out a conformity check on the CE marking for the swabs that are ordered? If the CE marking is not in conformity, will it be withdrawn from the market? It's been said that there's been an investigation into the iClean swabs for six months. What communication's been through? The FAGG says there has been communication. The labs I contacted contradict that. Were those swabs quarantined? Did a recall happen? Then about the problem of the shots. You say the problem with the 1 ml syringes is solved. You would have ordered shots in other parts. Did you run a quality check on those shots? Have your manufacturers been screened? Are they reliable? Did you send an Envoy to take a look at the production process? How many of the 11 million shots you ordered are delivered by which firm? Did you also check if those firms have references, if they're valid, if there's any trade disputes? I've heard that one of the suppliers is Jichun. How many syringes did you order from that supplier? Who negotiated for you there? Was that the FAGG? Did the FAGG check the quality or was it supplier LMS? The strategic stock of syringes and needles also appears to have disappeared. Who's responsible for that? Who's gonna keep that up-to-date? Did you take steps to do that? You have engaged Medista for transport, but will Medista also anticipate Flemish and Walloon vaccination policies? Have clauses been agreed so that these deliveries to the vaccination centres are carried out adequately? I would have liked to have had an update on AstraZeneca from you. Do you already have an explanation for the different deliveries between the Netherlands and Belgium during the first three weeks of the campaign? As far as the medication is concerned, have you ordered a study of the KCE for ivermectin and colchicine? You also said that access to contracts would be reviewed, especially after the Commission's ruling on access to administrative documents. How's it going? Will I be able to look at those contracts? To what extent can you confirm to me that a priority clause has been included in the contracts vis-à-vis other states or other continents? Is Europe not going to suffer from this? I would also have liked to know the government's position on the patents of vaccines. Do you already have enough FFP2s, surely for the nursing staff? After all, many states are purchasing FFP2.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u11	Mr President, I refer to the written text of my question No 55012875C concerning the wearing of the mask during childbirth.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I will also be listening to the answer for my colleague, who is going to another committee. My first question goes a little further on what Mrs Van Camp just said about nurses in the vaccination strategy. A lot of volunteers will be needed. Mrs. Van Camp already referred to it. I'm having a bit of a hard time with the e-mails I'm getting from nurses. It says that they are expected to help voluntarily, while they have given the best of themselves eleven months, barely have been able to take holidays, barely have been able to recover. Now the government and society cannot expect them to help voluntarily in the vaccination strategy even after their working hours. What exactly is the point of that? Hopefully we do not expect the care staff, whether they work in a hospital or are active in home nursing, that after all the hours they currently perform they will also help voluntarily in the vaccination strategy. Why would we voluntarily expect them to do that? Why can't we just pay for that in a fair way? Has that been discussed with the nursing sector? I hope you understand, with me, the nurses' response. They say that this is really the question too much after a year in the front line against the virus. I will not make a habit of bringing points from the special committee COOVID-19 to this committee, but it was a concern that we heard on Friday. Many colleagues have heard with me that the representatives of the general practitioners have already made a great deal of effort to become actively involved in the vaccination strategy. We expect a lot from the general practitioners in the vaccination strategy. They feel like they're being sent from the locker to the wall. They first address people in your cabinet, then in the cabinet of Minister Beke and then are returned to you. They have a lot of work to do at the moment, so they certainly aren't jumping to be in an extra task force. Here they do feel that they are really needed because it is about their metier and contribution. How does such a task force determine who is a member and who is not? What contact has there been between the task force vaccination and the representatives of the general practitioners? What is being done in the near future to have as many direct lines as possible with the representation of the general practitioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u13	Mr President, I will refer to the written text of my questions tabled in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u14	Mr President, I also refer to the written text of my questions. I would like to add a few clarifications on the psychological distress of caregivers. Even yesterday, in the Covid special committee, we heard representatives of the nursing world and of the healthcare staff in the broad sense, all of whom spoke of this growing and growing distress, this tsunami, these risks of burn-out. We talk about it regularly. Many indicated positively that 70% of hospital staff felt cared for on the initiative of institutions. The questions then arise from the caregivers who do not work in a hospital. Does it have the possibility of using the psychological support platforms put in place for hospital care staff? Another issue was raised in a 2019 KCE report on nursing staffing for safer care. What KCE recommendations could be implemented to support nurses? Nurses are very concerned about their patients and very concerned about the follow-up: 66% indicated that they were not at all or not sure that patients were able to observe therapeutic follow-up after leaving the hospital. This also generates anxiety among nurses. How can the continuity of post-hospital care be strengthened? I will also go very quickly on the task force that has been set up within the GEMS. Only one psychologist participates. I have the feeling that this is an under-representation, at a time when mental health issues are important, and there is much debate about how to strengthen citizens' commitment to measures, at a time when everyone has had enough. Minister, why not appoint more psychologists in this cell to enable them to contribute to more membership? I come back to the issues that my colleagues have already raised. In some countries, FFP2 masks are used, as in public transport and shops in Bavaria. Has the obligation to wear the FFP2 mask in places frequented in Belgium been examined? What are the experts' conclusions? If we were to use it, can we be sure that we have sufficient stock and access to these masks without a price surge as in the past, but with controlled quality and prices? But first, I am glad to hear from you about the usefulness of using these masks now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u15	Mr President, Minister, in order to give the minister as much time as possible to answer all our questions, I refer to my question No 55013069C on communication in the context of the covid crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u16	Mr President, in order to save time, I also refer to the written version of my questions. I would like to emphasise two specific questions. The first question concerns the vaccination doubt, which I questioned you about in September last year. While there was still considerable doubt then, it seems to be heading in the opposite direction. What is the current evolution in this respect and is that evolution structural? What influence does a vaccination doubt from 20% to 30% influence the vaccination strategy? Are you planning additional information campaigns on this subject, whether or not in cooperation with other authorities, to deal with the vaccination doubt in the event of acute problems with vaccination? The second question concerns possible side effects of the vaccines. According to the FAGG, about ten reports of adverse reactions have occurred in our country since the start of the vaccination campaign, out of a total of about 35,000 administered doses of Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine. Can you explain more about the case of the 82-year-old woman who died and the investigation initiated by the FAGG on this matter? Are there any results of the research on this and, if so, what decisions do you take from it? Is there consultation with other countries in the context of the adverse reactions, for example through the exchange of data? If so, which countries are these and what data are exchanged? Since transparency about the side effects of the corona vaccines is of the utmost importance for the public's confidence in the vaccines, I would also like to hear from you the following. Is there any other communication about this data than via the website of the FAGG, because that information is a bit hidden there, I think? Are you planning a more open and so-called push communication? Are the social media being scanned about the side effects of vaccines in order to improve scientifically incorrect information and provide accurate information?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u17	Minister, at the committee meeting on 12 January I asked you a question about the use of Ivermectin in the fight against COOVID-19. At that time it was a study that did not yet receive a peer review, in the meantime one has been published. In addition to a discussion of clinical studies on the effects of ivermectin, the article also provides an analysis of data at regional and national level in areas where ivermectin is used. Are you aware of this peer review? Does this shed another light on the use of ivermectin? Will we start clinical studies with this medicine or are they already there? What are the opinions of the EEA or other international organisations on the use of this medicine? Why is so little used to finding proper and good therapy? All salvation now goes to the vaccine, why isn't good and beneficial therapy sought with man and power? For example, there are studies and studies on the use of vitamins D and C. There is also the medicine ubiquinone, a study of which shows that this is beneficial in the course of disease. Are these products a substance for clinical research? Is that enough? Are such substances also being investigated in Belgian laboratories? Then I have a question about the vaccination strategy. The Belgian Association of Pneumology strongly recommends urgent vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 of all health professionals who care for patients with COVID-19: "The immediate vaccination of these health professionals must be an absolute top priority in Belgium, regardless of the region or community, given that this strategy will not only protect health workers against COVID-19, but will also and above all ensure the continuity of care during the current and future waves of the coronapandemic." At the same time, Minister, this is an appeal and a question from this association of care providers. Will you include the recommendation of the Belgian Association for Pneumology and many other care providers in the evaluation of the vaccination strategy? Why is that? Why not? Will this recommendation change your vaccination strategy and give these care providers the opportunity to be vaccinated as a matter of priority? Why is that? Why not? Will vaccination of healthcare providers be compromised at a time when fewer vaccines will be delivered?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u18	I now give the floor to the MR Group. I would remind you that speaking time is, in principle, five minutes for the whole group.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u19	Mr President, my question is No 55013053C. You know that the main justification for deprivation or restriction of liberty is above all hospital conditions and hospital overload. Minister, I would like you to provide me, possibly in writing, with the most recent figures on hospital occupancy. I would like to know exactly how many patients, and according to what pre-existing pathology and age group, are employed in general admission services, intensive care services or respiratory assistance. I do believe that this profile of current patients in hospitals is extremely important in determining the justification for the actions that will now be taken. Minister, it would be very useful to draw up different scenarios of hospital occupancy covid according to a number of parameters, including clusters. When one is in the presence of a very important contamination cluster in a crèche or in a school, this obviously has a very different impact on hospital overload than if the cluster is in a nursing home or in a nursing home. It therefore seems to me important to determine forecasts of hospital overloads, because that is what must determine the objectivation and justification of the measures taken or no longer taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u20	Minister, as far as schools and rapid testing are concerned, it is no longer taboo, the transmission is worrying. Vigilance must be increased. Schools have become centres of contamination. That is what is said at school today, whether it is in high school or in primary school. Between your linear answers to my questions about health protection in our schools in November and your comments last weekend, we can say that the inflection is almost total. Is this a 180° turn? The jungle of expert statements, the volte-face of others, the half-or even quarters of measures and the disparity of them keep us with all the staff of the school in blur and anguish and the parents in total misunderstanding. It was on 16 December that you replied that there was a need to take action in schools and primary education. Forty days ago. Therefore, Minister, with an anxiety that is growing, I told you in December, there is a need for joint and prepared calm planning and communication. Instead, we now have the impression that every day holds a change without real coherence here, there and which creates incomprehension and anxiety. I don't want to shut down schools, I want to make sure they're safe. So what specific measures are currently being proposed by the groups of scientists who advise you on the organization of courses, logistical adaptation, protective equipment or masks for primary school children? What exactly is the level defined by the experts involved in complementary measures, as you mentioned 15 days ago? How do you determine with the Concerted Committee the different and non-uniform decisions between the Communities of the country? What is the ability of rapid tests? What is the status of their planning? Do you intend to strengthen the system by integrating pharmacists? What analyses do you receive from pediatricians about the situation? How do you explain this decision of the spacing of the single contact of the "high-risk case-contact" without the class or the teacher?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u21	Mr. President, I'll go very quickly. Mr. Piedboeuf is of rare gallantry and will therefore pass last. I refer to my questions concerning the improvement of the recruitment of nursing staff and in particular the possibilities offered by the interim, bearing the number 55012544C. For my question No 55012545C, I want to add that since the crisis is still going on, there is a need to step up and relaunch campaigns to raise awareness of barriers. By my question No 55012574C, I refer to the financial support which is given to dentists for their care equipment, without any justification. Thank you in advance for your answers. I was quick and I give the floor to Mr Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u22	Mr President, if I may, I will ask my question. I refer to my questions, but I would add, in relation to access to vaccination for co-morbidity cases, that it was intended to be effective after 45 years. However, there are cases of people who have to be transplanted from the lung and who are under the age of 45. Will there be exceptions based on a medical record? The other part is the following. Are RNA-type vaccines that are being debated contraindicated for some people? Is it preferable and possible to select a normal-type vaccine at AstraZeneca?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u23	Mrs Farih has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief by referring to my questions. I'm talking about question No. 55012582C on the recognition of long-term COOVID-19 as a disease, Question No 6, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55012655C on the increase in the number of infections with the British and South African variant versus our strategy and question No. 55012656C on the number of deaths in our country due to corona and its comparison with the European countries. Because we know that these data are recorded differently from those in neighbouring countries, I would like to know more about the exact points where we differ. I also have question No. 55012657C on the priority groups in the second phase of our vaccination strategy, question No. 55012658C on the vaccination and vaccination passport and question No. 55013113C on the use of FFP2 masks, which are recommended by several countries to be used by citizens. How do we feel about that? Do we have enough strategic stock to allow its use to take place, if necessary? After all, I suspect that we should keep these masks primarily for the care sector. I also have question No. 55013114C on the shortage of syringes. Mrs Depoorter has explained this very well, and I agree with her. Finally, there is the question No. 55013115C on the continuation of vaccinations in February and March 2021 versus the delays we have experienced by Pfizer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u25	Mr President, Minister, we have heard the general practitioners, and they were really embarrassed because they were not involved in the task force vaccination. Are you going to change that? After all, they are the key to the success of the vaccination campaign and it is scandalous that they are not involved in this. Last time I asked a question about the problem with open data at Sciensano. You have answered that, but you have not said what you have often said about it. However, I note that this debate continues. Bart Mesuere of Ghent University, who makes graphs, complained about the fact that in Belgium they do not work on open data. Also on RTL yesterday, Nathan Clumeck, an eminent person, complained about that. In the 21st century it is really time to work on that. My main question is, of course, about the bad news about the vaccination campaign that is piling up. First there was the affair of the five or six doses of Pfizer. You said in plenary on Thursday that this was completely legally rejected, but that is not true now. Apparently, that upsets public opinion. For example, an opinion piece by Mr Vankrunkelsven appeared on this subject. It does not cost Pfizer a euro to give six doses instead of five, because it is the same vial. It is therefore purely a question of profit, because this brings together an additional 3 million dollars. Europe would now come up with more money for extra doses of Pfizer. Actually, we already did, but now we have to pay them again. What's your attitude on the matter? I have just heard that Sweden is taking a different attitude from our country, for example by suspending payments to Pfizer at the moment as long as there is no more clarity about the deliveries of doses. Here comes the bad news of AstraZeneca. If I understood correctly, there would be up to 60% less production, partly because of production problems in our country. However, the explanations are clearly not satisfactory again. The European Union has pointed out to AstraZeneca that an advance of EUR 336 million was paid for the purchase of these vaccines. Mr. Secretary, will you knock on the table and have you asked AstraZeneca for an explanation? What is the point of explaining the production problems? How come production falls back by 60%, which is huge? What is the impact of this announcement on vaccination schedules in Belgium? Yesterday I read on the RTBF website that risk patients and 65-plussers would not be covered until the end of March. Do you think, in line with the opinion of many people, that the time is right to question patent legislation? Can the technology behind the medication, for example at Pfizer and Moderna, be made available worldwide? Of course, we have to pay for the developed vaccines, but by making the technology available, the production can be expanded and much more massively started, so that the pandemic can be brought to an end more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u26	For the PTB, Mr. D'Amico had a question addressed to Mr. Clarinval. This was transferred to Mr. Vandenbroucke. If he gets there, he'll have the floor, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u27	Mr Minister, I have tabled eight oral questions. I refer to the text of my questions as tabled. The remaining speaking time for our group is to be given to my colleagues De Block and Pills.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u28	Minister, the covid pandemic also weighs heavily on the mental maneuverability of the people. This was measured in the fifth COOVID-19 health survey of Sciensano, which examined the influence on mental manoeuvrability. The prevalence had increased enormously across all age groups, but young people are most affected by anxiety and depression. Also among participants aged 18 to 24, almost half indicated low life satisfaction. In 2018, this was only 11%, which was not a small percentage at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u29	Various tools have been developed to deal with psychological complaints. For example, there is the first-line psychological care, for which the foundation was laid in the previous legislature and which has recently been extended to young people. The possibility of video consultation was introduced, which is usually more easily accessible. However, for the vulnerable group of young people, the video consultation is more difficult, for example in the case of the younger one facing intra-family violence. So there are still adjustments to be made. It is also important for the policy of dealing with the psychological problems that Sciensano has revealed that the aetiology of this psychological suffering is recorded and analysed. What are the causes of these recent depressions in young and old? What type of people does that hold the most? Are there patterns in the personality structure of the patients that give more cause for this? What is the impact of social conditions, such as a tight work-living space, telework, social isolation, compulsive components and loss of self-determination? It is important that, in view of the pandemic, we look at the issue in a broader European or international context. What measures are being taken so that the conversation with the psychologist for children in a precarious situation can be done with sufficient privacy? Can you build on the findings of Sciensano, the KCE and the Evidence-Based Practice Network? Can you ask for an investigation into the aetiology of psychic suffering and the preparation of a specific directive on the treatment of these complaints as a result of a pandemic situation? To what extent can the profession of clinical psychologists be involved in this exercise? Can such a visit be opened up to a European or international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u30	Mr. Secretary, the people who provide funerals are the last link in the care process. They are also exposed to the virus. Apparently, a deceased person is still contagious. Those people are regularly present in residential care centres and in hospitals. They visit relatives of the deceased and accompany a lot of people during funeral ceremonies. I was wondering whether they could also be taken into account during the whole vaccination campaign, as well as taking into account people who are in care and who take priority in vaccination. I also have a question about the delay in the delivery of AstraZeneca. What does this delay mean for the Belgian vaccination campaign? What tools does our country have to charge that delay? Is it true that doses intended for Europe have been re-destined to a number of other countries or continents? In Israel, people get green passes. How do you feel about that kind of release to people who have been vaccinated? At some point they will be very many, in front of the rest of the population, who will still have to be vaccinated. Finally, like many colleagues, I am concerned about the high number of refusals of vaccines in the care sector, especially in the sector in which we are aware of the dangers of the virus. One can see what the consequences are and what the virus can do. Is there anything extra going on for the motivation of the people in the care sector to be inoculated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u31	Mrs. Fonck, you have ten minutes to develop your inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u32	Madam Chair, I will group the inquiry and the questions together. Minister, I will begin with my inquiry. Decision had been taken to grant a premium of €985 for hospital staff. This bonus was paid to hospital staff, but not to all staff – I'll be back in a moment. You will recall that on a number of occasions I have argued that home-based nurses should also be eligible for this incentive allowance, whether they are home-based nurses as self-employed nurses or home-based nurses as wage earners. I've received a lot of testimony over the last few weeks that has been calling on me. Home-based nurses have still not received this bonus, while hospital staff have received it, usually at the end of December. Not all, but the majority received it at the end of December. Minister, my first question is about the promise you made me to give this bonus to all nurses working at home. It came back to me that INAMI's Insurance Committee had approved this premium. Do you confirm this information? Will this premium be granted to employees and self-employed persons? What's the calendar? What will be the source of funding? In the meantime, I have to note that the premium you have granted to general practitioners – 20 euros by DMG – is actually financed through the fees of hospital specialists. The communicating vases are already starting. I hope that for the nurses, it will not be a matter of going to withdraw from one another to pay to the other. In addition to home nurses, there are also those who forget this incentive bonus for hospital staff. These are paramedics and persons employed by cleaning companies responsible for the maintenance of hospitals. This staff is also left behind, which is totally unacceptable in the current crisis. These workers are fully involved in hospital services, receive low wages and play a particularly important role in the management of the pandemic. Maintenance and cleaning are important aspects of hygiene and are therefore an integral part of the strategy of barrier actions and the prevention of contamination. This cleaning staff does not receive this bonus because they work for external companies, and this is obviously unacceptable. Here I would like to insist and question you so that all staff can be treated equally. I will conclude this part of my inquiry by calling for the premiums to all hospital staff and home care staff to be de-challenged. You have already voted in favour of this provision twice, but I continue to argue in favour of the defiance of this premium because it is a matter of respect. Moreover, as other premiums have already been deflated, it would be particularly unacceptable if these premiums were not. Some nurses have received a bonus of 300 or 400 euros, which I believe is indecent. As far as the current developments are concerned, I would like to ask you first of all about a real concern. From week to week, we'll ask you questions. You're being questioned by researchers. There is a real problem of lack of transparency on a whole range of issues. I find this very interesting and quite unpleasant because history repeats itself from week to week. On many occasions, I asked you about the average number of people drawn per contact case per week, and the evolution of that number. I'm asking you again today. The same applies to the percentage of actual isolation of positively tested individuals. What about it? What is the evolution? When will the data presented by Sciensano finally be available? Why and on what regulatory basis are successive requests from researchers, as well as parliamentarians, refused, even though the Constitution and various regulations and laws require it? Can you provide us with the projection data of the evolution of the pandemic carried out by Sciensano? It is still incredible, here in Belgium, that governments take decisions that severely restrict freedoms without a legal or regulatory basis, but in addition, without having the arguments and in particular the projections over the next 15 days or four weeks. Can you provide us with the report of the Advisory Committee on the Choice of Covid-19 Vaccines, the confidentiality clauses of the purchase contracts for each vaccine, and the theoretical schedule of covid vaccines from pharmaceutical companies? All these points are subject to existential transparency. You've told us several times, "vaccines on the table." The least we can say is that you do not act with full transparency on this issue. Finally, I have some major questions that I think are equally important about strategy. The first concerns barrier measures. Minister, isn't it a clear time today, given the mutants and their greater contagiosity, to ask all caregivers to wear the FFP2? If you follow me on this point, what about the availability of the various sectors, whether in the first, second or third line? As far as tracing, testing and isolation are concerned, when will systematic salivary tests be started in schools - it is more comfortable - as well as in companies where there is no telework? What about much easier access in terms of testing for the entire population? What about genomic sequencing? We know genomic sequencing takes a week. There's a thousand a week and that's not much! It is known that, via antigenic PCR tests, we can follow in real time - three hours - the three main mutants in Belgium. Will all laboratories, especially those on the bis platform, be able to access it? On the issue of vaccination, it is urgent that general practitioners be involved in the vaccination task force. Do you agree to follow this? On the basis of what and what figures do you say that Belgium is in the top European vaccination in terms of covid-19 vaccination? I find it incredible that you compare the percentage of vaccinations in Belgium by taking a ratio over the age of 18 when the calculation must obviously be made over the whole population. When we do this on the whole population, Belgium is really not in the top at European level, as you claim...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u33	Mrs. Fonck, you have a nasty habit of saying that I said something I didn't say. Can you tell me what day, what hour, what minute I said we were in the top?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u34	Yes, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u35	You can't, because you fantasize about it. You really should stop fantasizing about what I said. I said in the platoon. The platoon is different from the top. You say this and it doesn't add up. You really should stop doing that. Otherwise, you ask interesting questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u36	Madam President, after this interruption I will try to continue my intervention. Mr Minister, in plenary last Thursday you said that. I see very clearly and just look at the real comparisons...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u37	Ma'am, that's not telling the truth. You really need to stop doing that. In every committee meeting, you say: you said... but I did not say that, I said something else. You really need to stop doing that. That makes a democratic debate between opposition and majority impossible, if you say 'you said a' and I did not say that at all. If you criticize me for what I said, that's dust enough. Don't criticize me for what I didn't say.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u38	Mr. Secretary, you will have plenty of time to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you just have to read the various newspapers on French-language websites - I have not consulted the Dutch-speaking media, I do not know if your media are reporting the same information. You will see that it is taken up on a whole series of online sites. I want a lot of things, but I don't understand why you're so angry. As far as I am concerned, when comparing apples and pears, from percentages of vaccinees over the age of 18 to percentages of vaccinees by taking the whole population as a reference, I tell you as a scientist and I am not the only one: this poses a serious problem to me. You know, just look at the last comparison that came out yesterday. At this rate, Belgium will reach 70% vaccinations in September 2024. When you look at the evolution of other countries - and again, I only take European countries - the reality is that the vast majority of countries are going much faster than we are. If I insist so much on this, it is that the real prospect is to vaccinate the fragile and at-risk population as quickly as possible in order to be able to consider getting out of confinement. If indeed, I speak to you with my guts, it is because it is a matter of life or death. Clearly in relation to that, I have been coming for weeks with proposals to put the turbo on. It is of no use to say "vaccinate" if you refuse even the leads that are put on the table and that other countries apply. Yes, the second dose at 42 days rather than 21, allows us to go twice as fast. Yes, first vaccinating unimmunized people to protect more people will allow us to go not twice as fast, but four times faster. All these elements are major. Yes, minister, when we have hundreds of thousands of vaccines left in the freezers, this poses a real problem to me because it is a matter of life or death, a question of economic recovery and also a danger to the mental health of the population. Maybe you're upset, but I'm telling you as I feel it: Belgium is so frozen on its vaccination strategy that it doesn't even dare to consider other solutions. I do not say anything; I see that competent virologists and infectious scientists, for example, Mr Clumeck yesterday, plead in the same direction. So that's what I'm asking you. Because saying three times that you have to vaccinate quickly didn't make any progress. In terms of production, why are not all the economic and public actors around the table today? We have an extraordinary pool of pharmaceutical companies specializing in vaccination in Belgium. Yes, I think there are possible alternatives to deploy our production capacities for Europe as a whole. France and Germany do. Then why not us? Why do we not raise vaccination as an absolute emergency strategy, by mobilizing all means to achieve this? That is what will save our people and the economic world; that is what will bring us real prospects tomorrow. Yes, minister, at one point, I'm upset because I find it pathetic that we're going to say things are going to work out when a particular firm has reduced its production and delivery capacity. Instead of designating culprits, I expect the public authorities to assume their responsibilities. Positive and achievable solutions exist. Belgium can do much better than it does today. Since I'm upset, I'm going to finish this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u40	Mrs. Leroy, I see you're back. You're still entitled to three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u41	Madam Chair, I am not going to use them, to better let the minister answer. On the other hand, I will be here to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u42	Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in our schools. We have just learned, and it is a very good thing, that a concertation committee will meet this Thursday to adopt new measures to regain control of the situation, it is hoped, since schools affected by the variants are still having to close down. At the same time, however, we must ensure that the measures taken do not worsen the psychological distress in which young people find themselves. Minister, are there any data on the contamination of teachers and students that can justify any action that may be taken on Thursday? The recent study by Sciensano showed that the main vector of contamination was not schools, but companies, until proven otherwise. Do you also recommend, for schoolchildren and teachers, the use of PCR tests as is done in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation or rather rapid tests, as is done in Flanders? And in which places? What types of experts have been or will be consulted for this Consultation Committee alongside virologists? Paediatricians and child psychiatrists have their say and are not part of the GEMS composition. The associations in charge of youth will also be consulted in this reflection. I also have to ask you about the recovery of the sectors still at a standstill, since once again we have to regret a cacophony around the conditions surrounding their resumption. It was mentioned that hairdressers would be taken up as soon as possible – that is true – on 13 February, knowing that the figures were already flying away. There are additional conditions, such as the FFP2 mask or weekly testing, which were denied by the Minister of the Independents from the day after tomorrow. All this to tell you that the independents need clarification. What are the clear conditions surrounding their recovery? Is it not time to integrate vaccination data into the barometer that sets the thresholds to be reached in order to be able to consider a resumption? In other words, from the moment we know that vaccination is the real hope of regaining our freedoms, can you assure us that when vulnerable people are vaccinated, health measures can be relaxed? To what extent will the new tools at our disposal, such as rapid tests, sniffing dogs, surface and area decontamination technologies, positively influence this barometer for a safe resumption of these sectors? Unless the arrival of the variants changes the situation. However, it is known that the vaccine protects against British and South African variants. What about the Brazilian variant today? Finally, every day I am besieged with questions from citizens about vaccination. This is proof that the vaccination campaign has still not been accompanied by a clear and effective communication campaign, even though we know from the beginning that effective communication is needed in the context of managing this crisis. However, some lessons had been learned. Home-based nurses and caregivers still do not know where they should be vaccinated; teachers and police officers still do not know whether they are considered an essential function and whether in an essential function there is also a priority order. I asked the question several times. I'd like an answer. What about pregnant women? It is known that the Supreme Council of Health has issued an opinion on this matter. Will the Vaccination Task Force incorporate this opinion so that it can communicate clearly to pregnant or childbearing-age women?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u43	Colleagues, there are a lot of questions and the Minister can stay until 5.30 p.m. at the most. I would therefore suggest that we allow him to reply and then organise another round for the Members, which also takes 40 minutes. Two rounds will not be feasible. Minister, you have the time to reply until 16.50 p.m. at the latest, if we want to allow all Members to speak again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u44	I will do my best, Madam President, but it is either one or the other. There were 130 questions, 40 of which came in yesterday. That's very difficult for my administration. I would therefore first like to pay tribute to my administration, which has to drop all kinds of other work for that, because that is really not easy. Apart from that, my administration does that and drops all kinds of other urgent matters and answers 130 questions, but I do not know how to give those answers in 40 minutes, because that is little per question. So I'll see where I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u45	You have much more than 40 minutes, you have an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u46	Yeah, I can do that. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u47	I understand it's a very big job for your cabinet...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u48	Not for my cabinet, my cabinet has absolutely no minute's work on this outside Mrs Schellens' office. It's about my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u49	I would just like to say that it is also a bit of a rush for us to bring the many questions that we consider very important in the debate to you in a few minutes, so I think it is difficult for both sides of the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u50	Yes, but we still need to think about that process. My policy cell has nothing to do with this except for Mrs Schellens, who has a great deal of work to do; it is my administration that has a great deal of work to do. You should understand that this tax is huge, but we must, of course, do so if Parliament so requests. I just wanted to say I'm gonna need some time. I suggest I start with the interplay. Ms. Fonck asked me about the incentive premium for hospital staff and told me that I had taken money from medical specialists to improve the DMG's pay. I don't know where this information comes from, but it's totally wrong. I am surprised by this allegation. I didn't take money from medical specialists. Not at all. That's a point of view I don't understand at all. If anyone can show me how I would have taken money from medical specialists, I'd be interested to see him. It has been said that I have taken money from specialist doctors to give it to general practitioners. That is a comment that I am making on the sidelines of this debate. I will answer the two key questions of the inquiry: have you taken the steps to grant the bonus to home nurses and when will it be granted? I make a distinction between the measures taken to grant the single incentive premium of 985 euros gross to employed home nurses, on the one hand, and self-employed home nurses, on the other. On 18 November 2020, the social partners in the Management Committee of Chamber 3, Home Care Nurses, of the Maribel Social Fund (CP 330) concluded a Memorandum of Understanding on the granting and financing of the incentive premium for employees in home care services. I have also given my consent. The scope is wider than home nurses. All employees employed as salaried staff in the home care sector who are covered by this Joint Committee shall be included in it in proportion to the paid working time during the reference period, i.e. from 1 September to 30 November 2020 inclusive. This Memorandum of Understanding was then translated into a collective labour agreement, concluded on December 14, 2020. In this agreement, it is stipulated that the employer must pay the bonus to the employees concerned. In addition, in the interests of equal treatment of staff in the home nursing sector, a similar Memorandum of Understanding was concluded on 22 December in the Management Committee of the Public Sector Maribel Social Fund for Home Care Staff in the Public Sector. This Memorandum of Understanding will, in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 1, point 3 of the Law on the organisation of relations between public authorities and trade unions of officials under those authorities, soon be subject to the approval of the Joint Committee of all public services. With regard to independent home nurses, INAMI has prepared a draft royal decree setting out the modalities for granting the single incentive premium to independent home nurses. The payment arrangements are similar to those applicable to salaried persons. This draft royal decree also includes a chapter to pay the premium of 985 euros gross to full-time employees in medical homes, provided that a social agreement or a memorandum of understanding has been concluded on this subject. Yesterday, this draft royal decree received a positive opinion from the insurance committee of INAMI. It will be submitted to the Council of Ministers on Friday, 29 January. In the case of the so-called "forgotten" categories, the incentive premium is granted to all hospital staff. Indeed, we have seen and still see in hospitals superhuman achievements. Staff are present, day after day, in the heat of action. He suffers long days and is faced with very difficult mental circumstances. Special recognition in the form of a bonus for this category of staff was therefore fully justified. The personal scope of this bonus has been discussed with all relevant stakeholders. Finally, all hospital staff, including cleaning staff and other support personnel, were retained. Any employee registered in the hospital staff register who works at the hospital in a hospital accounting expense centre – between 0.20 and 899 in technical terms – is entitled to the premium. This also includes students, doctors, interim staff and the one made available to the hospital by another entity. Non-hospital activity centres (parkings, crèches, cafeterias) are not eligible. The cleaning staff for which the hospital has preferred to employ companies providing cleaning services (subcontracting companies) is unfortunately beyond the scope of hospital financing. They decide independently on their organisation and on the outsourcing of cleaning activities. Similarly, paramedics, employees of private companies, do not take into consideration (cost centre 909). With regard to the low number of ambulance workers depending on the hospitals themselves, it had been decided, at meetings with the social partners, to exclude them also, in order to avoid any discrimination with the paramedics of private companies. However, as has been stated on several occasions, we do not want specific measures. A structural reassessment of health personnel is crucial. For this reason, we continue to focus on better wages and working conditions for all health workers. In addition, the fight against the corona pandemic requires the efforts of many people and is felt in many sectors. The federal government deploys resources and provides support where it can and continues to pursue its efforts. Will this bonus be defied? This incentive bonus is a symbol for hospital staff, a recognition of their efforts. In addition, it is also an advantage received in the course of her employment. It is therefore a remuneration on the basis of which taxes and social contributions are due. This aspect has also been discussed with all relevant interlocutors and has always been communicated in a transparent manner. I personally am not in favour of challenging premiums or parts of remuneration all the time, on an ad hoc basis. I believe that doing so is not a desirable development. I come to the questions I will answer grouped together. I will also always refer to the numbers of the questions because some questions overlap. I shall begin with the questions. 55013003C, 55013135C and 55013082C. Last Friday's Consultation Committee decided to ban non-essential travel in order to prevent the further importation of new virus variants. Travel for essential reasons, such as compelling family situations, humanitarian reasons, study obligations and professional reasons, is therefore permitted. Persons returning to Belgium for essential reasons will be quarantined for ten days unless the second test, on day seven, is negative. Then the quarantine can be shortened to the day on which that result was obtained. The isolation for persons with COVID-19 is extended from seven to ten days, which is in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and the ECDC. This measure is also linked to our greater concern about mutants, which we believe are more contagious and possibly longer. It was also decided on 5 February to consider whether non-medical contact professions could restart their activities, based on a very strict protocol and provided that the epidemiological situation improves further. Those decisions were taken following opinions from, inter alia, the RAG and the GEMS. You asked where to find it, Mrs. Gijbels. There is a passage about the non-medical contact professions in the opinion of the GEMS of 19 January. You will find that, like any other advice, on the website info-coronavirus.be/en/celeval. There you will find those advice by date. Maybe you didn't see it because everything is bundled in one piece of advice, but there's a passage about the non-medical contact professions. I come to questions. 55013053C and 55013069C on the corona numbers. Mr Bacquelaine is right in the sense that we must try to analyse further and if possible in depth the evolution of hospitalizations. The increase in daily admissions has particular features and is not easy to explain. Before Thursday, I will receive an update of the health situation from the police station. I suggested that, as far as possible, the nature of hospitalizations be further analysed. In the meantime, we have data on this subject thanks to Sciensano's daily reports and interactive dashboards. The Sciensano website thus offers dynamic graphics and mentions under the tab "Hospitalizations" the figures and trends on the basis of age. You will also find a breakdown of hospitalizations based on pathologies. While these data are not easy to interpret, recent data are published daily. I asked for this data to be analyzed more closely. Other questions were asked about the proposed thresholds for the circulation of the virus. The Risk Assessment Group (RAG) continues to evaluate these data every week, or more if the situation so requires. For the purposes of its epidemiological assessment, the GAR is based on the proposed thresholds for the incidence of new infections and hospitalizations, as well as on other quantitative indicators such as R-rate, doubling rate, number of households, etc. All these figures are analysed on the basis of context indicators such as screening strategy, vacation periods or the circulation of new variants. These indicators are used to interpret the observations made. The decision to change phase will therefore be taken in a more comprehensive analysis, not only on the basis of quantitative thresholds. In my view, there is always a need for an overall assessment, taking into account both the quantitative indicators and the qualitative aspects of the situation in our country. Questions Nos 55013170C, 55012636C, 55012992C, 55012655C, 55012898C, 55012891C, 55013116C, 55012709C and 55012719C deal with the circulation of variants. Belgian researchers and experts – either individually or involved in expert groups and working groups – closely monitor the international situation and research. Thanks to medRxiv, articles are available in pre-print, i.e. before they go through the peer review process and through publication in a newspaper. These articles must be evaluated by individuals with scientific knowledge to interpret the quality of the article and research, but they allow for rapid sharing of research results. There are very good indications that the British variant is more contagious than the variants we have identified so far, but the current studies obviously have their limitations. They're observational studies. The British variant has been detected in a number of outbreaks in us, in schools, in residential care centres, but it is not known by Sciensano whether the British variant was also involved in the hospital outbreaks. The current measures continue in hospitals. If there is an outbreak, an outbreak management shall be carried out by the hospital hygiene department of the hospital. The British variant does not seem to lead to a more serious disease. We can't tell at the moment how many deaths are linked to that either. We've reinforced genomic surveillance. A baseline surveillance is carried out, which maps all the variants circulating in Belgium. In addition, there is a specific surveillance for passengers, but all passengers being tested are also subject to strict quarantine or isolation if positive tests are carried out, regardless of the type of variant. The possibility of detecting a variant in a traveller is still greatest if it comes from the United Kingdom or Ireland. In the second week of January, the British variant was identified in approximately 6% of all COVID-19-PCR positive cases. There is a clear upward trend, but I think that expressing myself on the percentage is risky, because it is done on the basis of a sample. Is that sample representative? People don't know that. On the basis of the sample of sequenced samples, this could, but that is the highest estimate, go to 20 to 25 %. Maybe that sample isn't representative. I think we should be very careful with that. It is clear that the trend is rising and even rising. That is, in itself, a cause for concern. On that basis, among other things, it was decided to tighten passenger policy and extend isolation. Travellers returning from a red zone must have a negative test result delivered up to 72 hours before departure, if they are non-resident in our country. Either they have to be tested on day 1 of their return and on day 7, if they are resident in our country. I come to Mrs Gijbel's questions on genome analysis. Currently, the labs of the universities of Leuven, Liège, Ghent and Antwerp carry out the genome analysis. Those labs are indeed part of the federal platform, but I do want to say that all the labs could run for it. Good coordination and cooperation between the labs is needed, not only to jointly analyse the results but also to publish them in public repositories. Therefore, a limited consortium has been chosen to optimise cooperation and data exchange, including with public health services. The consortium must also ensure that the selection of samples remains representative. I was just talking about it, because it is an issue of how we should interpret the percentages of the variants. The number of samples must of course also remain within the envelope. Laboratories from the periphery are asked to forward positive samples with a travel history to the national reference centre, the KU Leuven, or one of the other laboratories of the sequencing consortium. The consortium makes a selection of the samples received for further follow-up. In addition, the laboratories holding a triple genePCR are asked to perform that PCR test on positive samples. The samples with an abnormal PCR result, the so-called S gene dropout, are forwarded to the national reference centre for further follow-up. A movement has also been set in motion, which must be ready on Thursday or Friday, whereby private labs receive a refund for tests with which they can determine the Sgene dropout. Apparently that can be arranged very quickly and it allows all private labs to cooperate. It is not a question of sequencing, but of a PCR test in which one can predict fairly well that one has a suspicious sample. How are we supposed to demonstrate the infectiousness of a particular variant? There are epidemiological reasons, the result of model exercises, why the very rapid increase in infections in Britain can only be explained by the hypothesis that there is a more contagious variant at work. There are also biological insights, namely the degree of binding to the receptor, which indicate increased infectiousness. The UK variant has also been shown by contact studies that people who have the new variant infect a higher proportion of their contacts than people who are infected with the original variant. The number of serious cases, for example how many people end up in a hospital, does not seem to differ. Of course, if we have more infections, more people will end up in the hospital, and that is what concerns us most. The number of cases of the different variants is communicated twice a week by the national reference centre. For the period from 1 December 2020 to 17 January 2021, a sequence was carried out by the sequencing platform for 1,215 samples. Those are the different universities. So far, 178 times the British version has been confirmed in Belgium and 8 times the South African version. The Brazilian has not yet been confirmed. These figures are evolving rather quickly, because in the meantime we have received more indications from the South African, especially in the case of the outbreaks in Ostend. As regards testing and tracing, the performance of rapid antigen tests is regulated by law. It was decided that they should be performed on prescription and under the responsibility of a physician. However, they should not be carried out by a doctor, they can also be carried out by non-medically qualified persons who have received the appropriate training, for example the Red Cross volunteers, whom Minister Weyts communicated a few days ago. If the performance of the tests meets the legal requirements, which also requires correct reporting of the result and the use of the test approved by the FAGG, then a company can indeed do so at its own expense. However, the result of a test can never escape the obligation of isolation when a positive test or quarantine has been carried out when a high risk contact or returns from a journey. The current recommendations already provide for a cluster break in a company in the hold testing of all persons who have come into contact with the index cases. The recommendation is to test all these contacts with a rapid antigen test as soon as possible, except for high risk contacts, for which the PCR test is best used. The recommendation implies that the rapid test procedure is repeated after two to four days. I have already mentioned the pilot project in Antwerp. I will not repeat this here because I have already explained it in plenary. In addition, based on the PCR tests, we saw a fairly strong predictive value of variants of the virus. The genome analysis also indicated that it was the British variant, for example. With regard to Mrs Zanchetta's question, I also believe that it is very important that target audiences be screened, that doctors prescribe tests and that clusters be tested as quickly as possible. Of course, our goal is to ensure a free testing capability allowing to respond to needs accordingly, but in the idea of carrying out more community testing and testing the travelers. I refer to the note that was finalized last week on the testing strategy, which was reviewed again and in which the community testing – like what is currently being done in Antwerp – and the testing of travellers play an important role.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u51	Whose note is that, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u52	The Task Force Testing has finalized a note on a new testing strategy. This was discussed by the Risk Management Group and the Risk Assessment Group. The final version of this note, Ms. Merckx, was approved by the Interdepartmental Conference of Ministers of Public Health on Thursday or Friday. There is therefore an adapted note on the testing strategy, which was approved by the Interdepartmental Conference and in which you will find these elements such as community testing, the role of rapid tests, etc. Maybe it's useful for you to study the note. Normally, it must be public. If you can't find her, I'll ask Mrs. Schellens to send her to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u53	As I see in Zoom, Mrs. Zanchetta also requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u54	Normally, I believe that notes approved by the Interdepartmental Conference should be public. I ask Mrs Schellens to check and send this note to both of you or perhaps to send the note to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u55	To the commission maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u56	Yeah, all right. That note has already been explained in the press, so you will not find any spectacular new things in it, but it is an interesting overview of where we stand with the strategy. That brings me to the question No. 55012710C on the saliva tests. The currently available scientific data indicate a lower reliability of tests carried out on a saliva sample. Therefore, their use for the diagnosis of COVID-19 or for detecting infections in high risk contacts or clusters is not recommended. They are only useful in these cases if for some reason it is very difficult to take a nasopharyngeal steel, but even then a combined nasal-oral steel can be an alternative. Saliva samples are useful in repeated testing, e.g. weekly testing of staff from residential care centres, in which case the lower reliability is compensated by the frequency of testing. Debates of the European Parliament 55012659C, 55012851C and 55013128C treat the returning travellers. I have already said that until 1 March all movements with a recreational tourism purpose are prohibited from and to our country regardless of the duration of the stay and, apart from that, because you really have to consider that as two separate but complementary decisions for travel to and from the United Kingdom, South America and South Africa, the distinction between professional and non-professional journeys is abolished, which means that these people have a quarantine obligation in addition to the already imposed test obligation, except when their stay is less than 48 hours or when they are people who benefit from very specific exceptions to the quarantine obligation, such as those with a critical function in an essential sector. We have therefore strengthened our approach to quarantine for those who come from the United Kingdom, South America and South Africa, in the sense that the quarantine is general, unless one is in our country for less than 48 hours or enjoys a special exception. That was not the case until a few days ago: someone who came for professional reasons and showed very little risky behaviour got another exception. So that's what we've changed. Apart from that, we allow only essential journeys between now and 1 March. So one has to look at the two things together. Belgium is in favour of a cautious attitude towards a possible European vaccination passport, in particular because the consequences possibly associated with a certificate are not clear. Sometimes reference is made to a passport, sometimes to a certificate. We are also only at an early stage of the vaccination campaign and there are still several unanswered questions about the effectiveness of the vaccines. Mrs Taquin and others have asked questions about the situation in schools and children. Mrs Taquin, as you are no doubt aware, there have been consultations yesterday and today between the Ministers responsible for education and youth of the various Communities. They meet to discuss the situation and to decide what they should or should not do, given the growing number and rising contamination in schools. On the other hand, as I said in a very moderate way on Sunday, there are more and more indications that child contamination plays a more important role than we thought a few months ago. However, I do not want to comment on measures. First of all, it is up to the Ministers responsible for Youth and Education to look into the matter. At the federal government level, Mr. De Croo and I want to meet with the ministers responsible for education and youth on Thursday. It is not a consultation committee or an inter-ministerial conference but an informal meeting, scheduled for Thursday, to take stock of what is happening at their level and to better understand the measures taken. This is an ad hoc meeting. The Ministers of the Communities may announce measures resulting from their consultations before Thursday. But what is important is that in support of this meeting on Thursday, we have asked the Office of the Commissioner to provide an update on the epidemiological situation. I hope that this update will also include data on the results of school-level testing, on the clusters detected and other data that raise concerns about the evolution of the epidemic. This report from the Office of the Covid Commissioner will in any case be forwarded to me before Thursday. As soon as I have it, I will circulate it to my colleagues, the competent ministers, etc. to document this Thursday meeting. In the meantime, however, the competent ministers meet. If there is an outbreak at a school, pupils and teachers are currently considered high risk contacts. This means that they must undergo PCR testing in the current strategy. The pupils' family members form high risk contacts of high risk contacts. So only in the case where a student test positive, the family will be tested. We still have a surplus of analytical capacity today, so we can test more people than is currently the case. This also justifies the very broad use of test strategies in case of local outbreaks as we see them today. In terms of manpower, this is very demanding. You shouldn't underestimate what it means to these labs, especially when they have to go out on a bus or in other ways. People are working very hard there. That requires a lot of the staff who man the labs and supervises the whole process. As far as pure lab capacity is concerned, we do have enough. That is why we are calling for a wide-ranging testing. You will also find this in the test strategy note, Mrs Merckx. But I do not want to anticipate the results of tests at and around schools that have been taken over the last few days. We don't have them all yet. When we have them, we will share them with the relevant ministers and health ministers. But right now I don't have them and I'm still waiting for them. Mr Creyelman, you already put it in your questions. In determining an increased incidence in certain urban areas, such as Antwerp, we can also test extensively elsewhere. We'll learn from the Antwerp situation. A certain district is called upon to come to a test centre. That's not obvious. I think that the city administration of Antwerp is working very well on this and that the exercise is quite right. In reply to question No. 55012527C on Coronalert enables the EGFS, the European Federation Gateway Service, to connect national corona apps. On 4 January 2021, the EGFS increased the daily information to be downloaded to each Coronalert smartphone from several dozen kilobytes to 1 megabyte. That bigger download has caused some problems for Android devices. The increased volume was a first problem. Therefore, the download took longer than expected and was terminated after a time limit was exceeded. Two hours later it was tried again, but the problem kept repeating itself. That problem has been solved with an update on January 7, 2021. A second independent problem was then identified. Because Coronalert relied on the larger data quantity more than twenty times a day called Google's special interface to calculate the contamination risk, a limit was reached, after which the interface could no longer be used. This limit was set by Google to protect privacy. By using the interface too many times one could obtain sensitive information. That problem was quickly solved, with an update on January 9th. It was not so easy to see these problems in advance, as the test configuration does not have these limitations. In addition, it takes Android a day for the problem to occur on site; only one risk calculation per day is carried out. After the problem has been identified and solved, a new version of the app has to be submitted to Google for approval, which usually takes one or two days. Unlike other apps, Google reserves the right to thoroughly review each update, as this app manages sensitive data. Finally, it takes some time for all users to update their app. This explains why it took about a week to solve two, at first glance simple, problems. Due to these problems, the download volume increased significantly. For this reason, the backend server was discontinued for a limited time, from 7 to 10 January. This means that no more risk calculations were carried out, but the test results were still shown in the app. After the problem was solved, all apps got all the missing information. On January 11th, all the problems were solved. Coronalert on the iPhone was not affected, apart from the temporary discontinuation of the backend for updates of risk calculations. Therefore, the limitations that gave rise to the problems were not present in the test configuration and were not established before the version update. The defect occurred about one day before it was established and three days before it was resolved. For six to seven days, the risk calculation was not adjusted on Android phones. It was still possible to receive test results in the app and in iOS to notify other users in a positive test. Between 7 and 10 January, the warning was delayed for all users until 10 January in the evening. This is estimated to be less than a thousand users. The correct number is not known because the information is not known by the privacy-by-design approach of this app. Mrs Fonck, then I come to your question No. 55013081C over tracing. Mrs Fonck, on the subject of tracing, currently each index case reports on average three contacts. Most of these are high-risk contacts that live under the same roof as the index person. These figures are comparable between the Regions. Prior to the additional measures taken in October, this figure fluctuated on average between four and five contacts. All people with symptomatic or non-symptomatic covid-19 infection should be isolated. Regional legislation applies to the control and monitoring of isolated or quarantined persons. We do not have figures on effective isolation. I've come to the vaccination strategy. An interesting chart of the task force has been communicated to the press. I'll come back to that later. Let me first say something about the priority groups, which were very many questions. The advice of the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work on the priority groups remains to be validated. So we have no new validated and beaten list of priority groups. Whether, for example, policemen and undertakers are considered priority groups should be made clear when the opinion of the Supreme Court on Prevention is validated. That's work for the IMC, the Inter-Ministerial Conference. It manages the contents of the vaccination strategy. There is also an opinion of the High Health Council on persons with comorbidities under 45 years of age. Caregivers in intensive care, emergency departments and covid wards are getting priority right now. No adjustment of the vaccination order based on incidence is currently considered. With regard to the data on vaccination, the Commission, in cooperation with the Länder, Sciensano and the Public Health Office, is streamlining data flows so that each person concerned can have the same data and also use the same definitions. Reports are made daily on all vaccinations registered up to and including yesterday. You will find that information on the website of Sciensano. It concerns vaccinations that have been administered and registered, which in practice is always underestimated because the data are sometimes recorded in Vaccine Network later than at the time of administration. In principle, this should no longer make too great a difference from this week on. What we do do, and that is important, is to distinguish the doses delivered from the vaccinations because they are not exactly the same. There may be a loss of delivered doses, which may result in a dose being delivered, but there is no vaccination. All this has taken some time and Vaccinenet is in further development. Vaccinenet was not prepared, for example, for registering the location of vaccination, to know which home-care centre it is. That was not necessary in the past and it was not foreseen. Data quality is now also checked at the level of the health data of Sciensano. In order to avoid data issues or to address them early in the chain, cooperation with the Länder will be established and they will also be given access to a central dashboard of the Commissariat which also contains data on deliveries. The link between the call and registration system and the global medical file (GMD) is still under development. The Länder will consider how the general practitioners will be able to follow up on this. As regards transport, at the start of the crisis, Medista NV was designated as a wholesale distributor responsible for managing the strategic stock of medicines and medical devices for a period of one year by negotiated procedure without prior publication. The distribution of the COVID-19 vaccines will take place until the end of March under this agreement. At the time of this designation, a number of criteria were taken into account, namely the necessary storage capacity including sufficient refrigeration facilities, the required permits, inter alia a wholesale and a manufacturing permit, a central location for rapid and efficient distribution, independence, non-distribution of own products, and own transport options in accordance with GDP standards or Good Distribution Practices. The storage and distribution of vaccines is already covered by a contract between the State and a designated distributor which runs until the end of March 2021. A public tender will now be published in order to award the contract to a company that will be responsible for the storage and distribution of vaccines from April 2021 for a period of four years. Then I'll get the deliveries. Making vaccines against covid accessible worldwide is obviously a complex issue. It is well known that companies have a monopoly position in this area and also use it. There has been a huge mobilisation of public and private resources, research capacity, expertise and logistics engineering. The forces have been combined, both at European and multilateral level, including through the World Health Organisation, to achieve a balanced approach. I believe that I have expressed my dissatisfaction and that of the task force on the communication of the companies concerned on a number of occasions. I will not repeat that here. I also fully agree with what Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, said about the companies involved. We are committed to a European strategy and it is therefore through the European Commission that we are trying to clarify a number of outstanding issues, which have also been mentioned in this debate. I am thinking of a possible explanation for the delay in the delivery of AstraZeneca and of clarity about what we can ultimately expect from Pfizer in the debate on five or six doses. I will not anticipate that. I said in plenary that Pfizer can sign a contract, but that does not exhaust the debate. The debate on this is not exhausted. We are very closely monitoring what is happening with and through the European Commission. You may rest assured that ethical considerations and fundamental health considerations are absolutely crucial in this discussion, just as the need to have good communication that allows the people who are waiting for these vaccines to have a clear perspective as far as possible on when they can be vaccinated. I say immediately that, even with the best will in the world, in any case, we will probably have to live with a lot of uncertainty and constantly adapt the vaccination strategy. The European Commission represents the European Member States, including Belgium, in the TRIPS Council. There is disagreement in the TRIPS Council as to whether intellectual property rights constitute an obstacle to access to COVID-19 vaccines and medicinal products for developing countries and whether a guard would improve this access. The European Commission believes that a waiver is not the instrument for improved access and that obstacles identified so far were more due to shortages or logistical challenges. The European Commission conducts an intense dialogue with the supporters of the waiver and is strongly encouraged by Member States, including Belgium. It seeks, in consultation with these countries, to find out how intellectual property rights would prevent access to vaccines or medicines. It is also working on the flexibility contained in the TRIPS agreements, which could be used if intellectual property rights on a particular property were to constitute an obstacle. During the preparatory meetings, Belgium consistently stressed that the EU should take the concerns of the basis of the proposal, namely access to vaccines for all, very seriously. For Belgium, the Commission must engage in dialogue with the advocates in order to understand the problems they are experiencing and to identify the causes of these problems. It is also important that the Commission engages in dialogue with civil society and the public. The private sector must also be closely involved in these consultations. The debate will continue in the next few months in the TRIPS Council. Belgium will continue to follow this closely. I refer to a graph published on the VRT website and in several newspapers on the rhythm at which the first and second doses of the Pfizer vaccine are administered. This rhythm shows that from the first dose, from now on and the next few weeks, we would give at best 54,000 doses per week, which allows us to use the second dose based on what we now have in the freezers, always depending on whether Pfizer delivers enough. The expectation is that Pfizer will deliver a little more from February than it is now. This week, the number of doses delivered is reduced by 13 %, as you know. I believe that the task force has an optimal schedule. I see no reason to be critical of that. I also think that the rhythm is very acceptable. On the other hand, I would like to make a few comments. 55012658C, 55012797C, 55012718C, 55012996C and 55012627C I will repeat what I have said before. Pfizer first announced a $200 million disc. That's what was negotiated. Then there was an announcement of an additional 100 million, then an announcement of another 300 million on top, bringing the total to 600 million. I cannot comment on the Netherlands. We get the number of doses that we are entitled to in relation to our population, and that is what we get according to the agreed rhythm. That's the essence. Then there is a discussion about trays versus doses, the five or six doses from a vial. The contract is clear in this respect, but the discussion is still under way. As regards AstraZeneca, the European Commission will have to clarify what is going on. We really want that explanation to be made. Does it have to do with production problems or is there something else going on with AstraZeneca? We ask the European Commission to clarify this. Moreover, you should not forget that there is still a need for approval before it can be placed on the market as a vaccine. We're assuming that approval will be given. We will receive all the data, including the basis on which that approval was given and the exact quality of the vaccine. Now I come to Moderna and the answer to question No. 55012443C. On 18 January, the pilot hospitals received the first doses of the Moderna vaccine. We have sufficient stockage capacity at 80 degrees in the hospital hubs and at the distributor designated by the State to store all the vaccines delivered as long as they are not administered. The intention is, of course, to administer them as soon as possible. The volume which must be stored in freezers of 0-80 degrees shall be kept as small as possible of course. Debates of the European Parliament 55012616C, 55012629C, 55012720C and 55012894C were side effects. For the time being, there is no evidence of a direct causal relationship between the administration of the covid vaccine and the death of an 82-year-old woman. Especially in this age group there are of course many 'natural' deaths to be regretted every day. I'm sure there's a pathology there too. This investigation is still ongoing. Furthermore, no additional steps are planned for the registration and monitoring of side effects. Because of the large numbers of vaccines that are being administered worldwide and the high level of attention given to their safety, many reports of side effects were to be anticipated. Both the EEA and the FAGG had thus made proactive preparations. The EEA safety monitoring plan provides, inter alia, that a producer of a covid vaccine submits an updated safety report on a monthly basis. The FAGG has created a web form specifically for reporting side effects in covid vaccines. Adverse reactions may also be reported through the Vaccinenet vaccination register. All this is in addition to everything that has long existed in the field of pharmacovigilance for medicinal products in general. The hub is the European database for adverse reaction reports, EudraVigilance. All manufacturers of medicines and all competent authorities within the EU, with us the FAGG, are obliged to provide all the side effects that have been reported to them. The FAGG shall publish at least a weekly bulletin on its website containing reported adverse reactions for the covid vaccines. All kinds of other websites, such as those of Sciensano and the FPS Public Health, already provide a link to the website of the FAGG. In addition, there is, of course, attention in the press. A person looking for objective information should therefore be able to find it easily. Proactive social media scanning is not a priority at the moment. In the residential care centres, together with the treating physician, an individual assessment is made as to whether a person can receive a vaccine if the person is severely weakened by illness or old age. If a person is terminally ill, it is also examined, in consultation with the treating doctor and the family concerned, whether the person is receiving a vaccine. The Telegraph recently reported that according to Israeli research, the Pfizer vaccine ensures that the coronavirus is not transferred to third parties. However, the results referred to in the article have not yet been published. In addition, according to the interview, antibodies were only measured in the vaccinated subjects, while to confirm an effect on transmission PCR tests should be performed to analyse the effect of the vaccine on asymptomatic virus transport. If reliable new elements emerge from the other ongoing studies, this will be taken into account in the strategy. On the subject of vaccination readiness, questions were raised. 55012529C and 55013127C. The results of the most recent large corona study, the motivation barometer and the COVID-19 health survey indicate that the percentage of the population that will be vaccinated against COVID-19 is increasing. It rose from 50% in September 2020 to 59.5% in December 2020. During the same period, the percentage of the population who may be willing to inoculate has fallen from 30.5 % to 26 % and suggests that 14.5 % should not be vaccinated, which is a decrease of two percentage points compared to the results of September 2020. The rapid development of vaccines, the approval by the European Medicines Agency and the launch of the vaccination campaign in our country are accompanied by an increasing number of people who claim to be vaccinated against COVID-19. This increase is likely to continue according to the research already available. Nevertheless, an important minority of Belgians indicate that they will not be vaccinated against COOVID-19. Research based on the COVID-19 health survey indicates that half of the group is about people who are not convinced that vaccination will help. There are also people who say that COVID-19 is not as dangerous as it is claimed or who indicate that it will not be necessary to be vaccinated, as the vast majority of people will have been vaccinated. There are also two further studies on vaccination readiness in the UAntwerp under the direction of Karolien Poels and in Ghent University under the direction of Maarten Vansteenkiste. The task force vaccination uses the results of the two studies to continuously adjust and adjust its communication and communication between the Länder. Debates of the European Parliament 55012612C, 55012758C and 55013114C cover the syringes. We do not expect a shortage of 1 ml syringes at the moment, assuming, of course, that the suppliers deliver what they have promised. In the meantime, five suppliers have been found. It was very urgent, so we have not been able to launch a public invitation to tender. We were indeed counting on the European Joint Procurement Agreement, but we have always been looking for other suppliers. Especially now it has been found that the suppliers who came out of the European procedure as laureates are unable to meet the proposed tight delivery deadlines, has been speeded up in finding alternatives. In this way, the 2 ml syringes were also announced earlier and a first batch of 1 ml syringes, which is currently used in vaccinations. A total of 16.6 million syringes of 1 ml were ordered. The needles are all 23G and 25G needles. The first part delivery arrives at the end of January. In particular, we expect the following quantities of 1 ml syringes: at the end of January 300 000, in the middle of February 3.7 million, at the end of February 5 million, at the beginning of March 3.6 million and in April 4 million. With the fate of 384 000 1 ml syringes that we already had, this means that the delivery of syringes will be able to follow the pace of vaccination. In addition, there are also the 12 million 2 ml syringes ordered. The new suppliers could either provide references in neighbouring countries or were assessed on the basis of the technical dossiers they could submit. A valid CE certificate had to be submitted. The criteria to be met by the syringes were the standard criteria, including intramuscular use, with a volume of 1 milliliter, with a graduation of 0.1 milliliter, with a maximum dead volume of 35 microliters. The market for these products is very tense, prices are often to take or leave and can vary considerably between suppliers. In total, we paid about 1.33 million euros for all 1 ml syringes, which is on average 0.08 euros per syringe. For the Moderna vaccine, the volume to be injected is slightly larger than for the Pfizer vaccine, but both the 1 ml syringes and the 2 ml syringes can be used. Belgium has all the necessary equipment for vaccinations with Moderna. These vaccines were delivered on 11 January, as in all other countries. Unlike Pfizer, these vaccines are delivered by the company to a central depot before they are distributed to hospitals. As regards staffing for covid vaccinations, the modalities for the activation and reimbursement of the vaccineers are currently discussed in the Task Force Operationalization vaccination policy. The federated entities are responsible for the practical organisation. There is no question of voluntary and unpaid use of home care in the discussion. The involvement or not of pharmacists is also a sub-State competence. The current phasing-out of vaccination is already rightly a high priority for healthcare professionals. The primary care workers who will help in vaccination centres will therefore be vaccinated in a timely manner. Whether or not to involve the event sector in the organisation of vaccination centres is a decision of the federated entities. Debates of the European Parliament 55012955C is about the volunteers in the roll-out of the vaccination, but that really is a part state competence. Mrs Van Camp, we are all discussing this in the task force, of course, but the approach is first and foremost from the Länder. As far as frontier workers are concerned (Question No. 55012796C), vaccination will be done by the address of residence, unless a person is vaccinated at work. It therefore depends very much on which job frontier workers carry out to determine where they can be vaccinated. I come to the questions on protective equipment, Nos. 55012822C, 55012849C, 55012875C, 55013113C, 550130082C and 55013173C. Advice on wearing FFP2 oral masks was sought from a subgroup of the Higher Health Council. In addition, the use of oral masks in different sectors will be further discussed by experts. The opinion indicated that it was not advisable to recommend that the public use FFP2 masks as a standard, but rather to focus on compliance with the rules already in place regarding the correct use of oral masks, hand hygiene, physical distance, avoidance of crowded areas, etc. A more detailed opinion from a broader group of experts is expected. Cotton masks or non-medical disposable masks also have an effect on diffusion and protection against droplets and aerosols. Protection is maximum if all concerned – the source patient and contact persons – wear a mask. At present, it still seems that the masks are not worn in a sufficiently consistent and correct manner. It is important to communicate this information as fully as possible. FFP2 masks offer better protection for those who wear it against aerosols, if the mask is worn correctly. This is why this type of mask is worn in hospital covid services in order to avoid contamination of the room – what is called source control. FFP2 masks are never used by patients in hospitals. In addition, the advantage of an FFP2 mask disappears if it is not worn correctly. It must be perfectly adjusted and the areas must, for example, be shaved closely, otherwise it has no added value. A FFP2 mask is also less comfortable to wear. It's harder to breathe when you're wearing it, which can lead people to postpone their port more often. In addition, masks are only one component of infection prevention. The other six golden rules – i.e. distancing, hand hygiene, ventilation – are also important, even if everyone is wearing an FFP2 mask. It is not necessary at this time to recommend the widespread use of FFP2 masks. But we must continue to promote the correct use of oral masks, as well as respect for the other rules already known. The production and import of FFP2 masks is much better than last year. The mask market is beginning to normalize. This is why the SPF Economy decided to no longer apply the Alternative Test Protocol (ATP) procedure as of 1 February 2021. Transitional phases have been established for masks that arrive by air until February 15 and, by boat, until March 31. Under certain conditions, the SPF Economy will still allow KN95 masks and other masks to be placed on the market. Currently, the federal strategic stock contains sufficient ATP-compliant FFP2 masks to meet the needs of the health sector in the event of market difficulties. The stock contains 13,999,300 ATP compliant masks and 14,214,800 ATP compliant pieces, which are ATP compliant provided they have nose tape (bands or clamps adapted to the nose). In case of shortage, if the stock level is below 14 days guaranteed for FFP2 – which is not for taps noses – general and university hospitals can request FFP2 via the Appsu app. Hospitals must report their stock levels and daily consumption on a monthly basis. The masks are provided on the basis of this data. Then I come to the question about mouth masks in hospitals. 55012525C. The Risk Assessment Group and the High Health Council have drawn up a consensus opinion setting out which masks must be worn by which groups of professionals or persons, based on their commercial availability. You will also find this advice on the website of Sciensano. Textile masks remain recommended for asymptomatic persons to reduce the risk of contamination in circumstances where the physical distance of 1.5 metres cannot always be respected, for example in public transport and shops. The textile masks are therefore the first choice when healthy people enter public space. Ssymptomatic persons are requested to remain in quarantine or isolation and to follow the hygiene advice published by Sciensano. The effectiveness of textile mouth masks is variable as no conformity certification or official controls are carried out. In order to prevent SARS-CoV-2 virus from entering their walls, Belgian hospitals should be able to rely on reliable provisions. It is normal and is expected that anyone entering a hospital will wear a clean and subsequent surgical mask or FFP mask and disinfect their hands according to approved protocols. The hospitals take care of the entire organisation of the reception, care and stay of patients in order to manage the risk of infection as well as possible. Many communication waves have been organised since March 2020 on the appropriate hygiene measures to be followed in the fight against COOVID-19. In addition to the information provided by Sciensano, the information website www.info-coronavirus.be, which is managed by the FOD, also has a full page dedicated to mouth masks, with explanations, tips and a FAQ section. As for the poor quality of oral masks, they do exist in different versions and in different qualities. However, these differences should not be overestimated. The role of oral masks is both to protect carriers and to prevent particles from spreading. Of course, we are also concerned to prevent micro-drops known as "aerosols" from passing through oral masks. It is wrong to believe that the pores of oral masks should be small enough to stop aerosols. Laboratory simulations show that if both people wear a cotton mask, exposure to infectious viruses is reduced by 70%. In addition, research by the CDC in America shows that some very tight fabric mouth masks can offer up to 80% aerosol protection. What is certain is that a mask that is not worn properly does not offer any protection. Therefore, wearing comfort is also a factor that should not be underestimated when considering the quality of masks. Finally, it is always a combination of measures that is important. Perfect masks but without adequate hand hygiene or maintaining a safe distance will not suffice. With regard to your communication questions, since the beginning of the pandemic, several awareness-raising campaigns have been conducted for different groups: young people, non-native speakers, people with low literacy rates, children, deaf and hard of hearing, religious communities, people in poverty, blind and visually impaired. For young people, there are guidelines on communication for local authorities. There is cooperation between the National Crisis Centre (NCCN) and Wat Wat, which converts coronagrams into personalized communication for young people on their website (www.watwat.be). They actively communicate through their channels, through influencers and through various youth work organisations. They also provide NCCN with regular updates on the most visited pages and the most frequently asked questions through their channels. The campaign "Example: stop the virus" and "11 million reasons.be" is a deployment of influencers, both to the general public and to niche target groups - for example, young people of non-Belgian origin. For non-native speakers, there is a conversion of coronographers and health information into clear language in more than 20 languages and associated audio messages. There is a collaboration of the NCCN with the Agentschap Integratie en Inburgering (the agency for integration into citizenship), Atlas, IN-Gent, the SETIS Wallon, Vocvo and Uniek. These partners do not just make translations, but have a wide network to disseminate information and have extensive experience in communicating on diversity. Compared to the low literacy rate, there is a conversion of measures against coronavirus and health information into fact sheets and videos in a simple visual language, based on cooperation between NCCN and Vocvo Wablieft. There is a website www.wablieft.be/nl/corona-in-eenvoudige-taal. For children, there is the creation of a lesson on coronavirus in BE-ready, a lesson kit for primary school and a free download for teachers via www.risico-info.be/nl/school. For the deaf and hard of hearing, there is a live interpretation at press conferences, sign language videos, etc., and an extension of the hours of operation of remote interpreters for telephone contacts with the information number, contact search, hospital doctors, etc. For religious communities, there are contacts via communities during Ramadan, Jewish Passover and Easter; and the production of a brochure with guidelines for safe festivities, sent to local authorities. For people in poverty, there is cooperation between the NCCN and the SPP Social integration for communication to CPAS and others. A rationalisation of the communication on support measures is also in place. In addition, a panel of experts was set up to examine the communication closely. It brings together people who have lived in poverty themselves, especially as homeless people. For the blind and visually impaired, audio messages are also developed. An information campaign was broadcast on the country's main radio and television stations between October 29 and November 8. spots in Arabic, Turkish and German were broadcast as early as the week of 4 November. Inclusions in the Belgian daily press as a whole were published on 27 and 30 October. Publications on social networks like Instagram, Snapchat, etc. were broadcast on 2 November. Three targets have been defined: young people, the geolocation of the most affected areas and communities, which receive messages in their original language: Arabic, Turkish, Romanian, Spanish and Dari. Consideration is being given to the possibility of all boxes to be distributed in the most affected communes. I am also thinking about the display of equipment in essential stores. It's also on November 11th. The information campaign will also be transmitted via the communication media of our partners – bpost, TEC, STIB, De Lijn, Febelfin, pharmacies and telecom operators – in order to obtain free distribution on their media. The distribution of communication material to be developed via the Regions, cities and municipalities is also planned. From mid-November to the end of December, an emotional campaign aimed at strengthening motivation and solidarity was disseminated through traditional and modern media. To answer questions from Ms. Fonck and Ms. Merckx, a set of data is already available. You can find them on https://epistat.wiv-isp.be/covid. Requests may be made for additional data that are subject to additional legislation. Therefore, you can make a data request via the above-mentioned site. In particular, these data are covered by the GDPR and the Belgian law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data. A full public weekly report is available every Friday. In particular, it presents trends in four key indicators: confirmed cases, new hospitalizations, occupancy of care units and death. Projections of the incidence level within the next 14 days for the number of cases or within the next 7 days for the number of hospitalizations are also presented as well as a series of other indicators (positivity rate, prescribing data, evolution of the average time between the onset of symptoms and the telephone call of contact center to the patient, vaccination data, etc.).). Mrs Reuter, the Federation of HR Service Providers (Federgon) has drawn up a Health Care Plan. The possibilities of acting provide flexibility for some professionals and for some employers, but the stability of the employment relationship may be important or necessary for certain activities. The high level of specialization and the importance of teamwork, the impact of well-organised task transfer are important elements for discussion. Finally, the stability of professional activity can be an element of well-being and be preferred by employees and their employers. The diversity of the health care sub-sectors and the complexity of the tasks call for a specific and local approach. The expertise and experience of the human resources departments of hospitals, nursing homes and other employers in the sector should not be underestimated. The interest of initiatives such as this Federgon Health Care Plan is to recall alternatives and provide support that allows, where appropriate, the health care structures to focus on other tasks. The role of the State is not to organize work centrally but to facilitate certain alternatives and in any case not to make them impossible. Contacts with the interim sector make it possible to analyse possible problems and concrete proposals. The Intercabinets Working Group (IWG) Health Professions of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health has been working on the issue of the workforce of health personnel lately. A wide range of measures have been taken in consultation with the various federated entities for all the professionals concerned. The French version of the website www.info-coronavirus.be also includes a section "Measures to strengthen health care" which you can consult. I come to the questions about the dentists. As far as dentists are concerned, the system of financial support for caregivers developed in June by INAMI covers more than healthcare facilities. This is an intervention for protective measures and equipment. These measures also concern intensified procedures for the ventilation and cleaning of healthcare rooms. Sciensano has developed and coordinated, at the request of the competent authorities, specific procedures for dental treatment. The situation of dentists is special because several dental devices cause particularly powerful and risky aerosols for the contamination of the patient, the caregiver, the equipment and all surfaces of the practice. The implementation of aeration dilution measures after aerosolizing procedures and verification of the proper functioning of existing ventilation systems is therefore preferred. In addition, offices are often rather small and functional spaces in which everything is within reach. The system introduced is a support system, not a system for reimbursement of specific costs. This system is relatively simple with a virtually zero administrative impact for the provider and limited for the administration that manages it. The compensation for the protection material by the RIZIV amounts to €142,9 million for the period May-August 2020, of which €128,9 million for individual healthcare providers. I can give you the breakdown by province, but I suggest that my collaborator, Mrs Schellens, forwards these figures per province. It is for the sake of clarity about taxable amounts. Fighe 281.50 is drawn up for this purpose. The provincial medical committees within the FPS Health ensure that professionals implement the measures aimed at preventing or combating quarantine, disease or communicable diseases. The committees also play a role in this pandemic. In addition to this possibility of monitoring, the professionalism of the caregiver and the importance he attaches to his own health, to the health of the persons in his immediate vicinity and to the patients he treats. Mrs De Block, you had question No. 55012425C on psychological well-being, in particular research. Indeed, the COVID-19 pandemic has an impact on the psychological resilience of citizens. We see an increase in psychological problems across the population. This includes both complex traumatic problems, as well as individuals with an increase in mild to moderate psychological problems, such as feelings of stress and anxiety, depressed mood, alcohol abuse or behavioural problems. This occurs in adults, parents, children and young people, for which short-term and generalist first-line psychological care may be appropriate. Following the pandemic, the possibility was provided for to allow online consultations to continue. However, this possibility was less used in favour of face-to-face consultations. By way of illustration, 486 online consultations took place throughout Belgium in October and November. In October, there were 8 in people under 18 years of age, 121 in people between 18 and 65 years of age and 13 in people over 65 years of age. In November, 9 were among the minus 18-year-olds, 302 among the middle-aged and 34 among the 65-plussers. This shows that both clients and clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics prefer traditional consultations in the practice of the professional. Various reasons can be listed for this, such as the client's preference or the familiar working methods of the professionals. For children under the age of 12 it is difficult to do an online consultation. There are also precarious situations. Think, for example, of reporting intra-family violence. It is absolutely not obvious to do that online. Therefore, the online arrangements are rather an exception, which is used by people who, for example, are very anxious to be infected or where physical distance to practice is difficult to bridge. In response to Mrs De Block's question on the intentions to conduct scientific research into the aetiology of psychological suffering due to the pandemic situation, a research question will be submitted to the High Health Council, which is already working together on the topic "need for psychological support following the COVID-19 pandemic" and in which the profession of psychologists is closely involved. This research group was chaired by Professor-Doctor Elke Van Hoof. The aim is to report on this every two weeks. As far as the international level is concerned, the WHO is taking an initiative to study the impact of corona on mental health, among other things. Professor Ronny Bruffaerts was presented as the Belgian expert in the technical advisory group. In the same vein, I should like to ask the honourable Member whether he is aware of this. 55012633C about suicide and depression. There is indeed an evolution in the number of conflicted first-line psychologists. Between November 2020 and December 2020, the number of 750 people in first-line psychological care increased to 800 people. The covid crisis is putting increasing pressure on healthcare and welfare professionals, both by complying with hygiene measures and personal protection, and by increasing administrative tasks. Results of the survey Power to Care by Sciensano and KU Leuven, which interviewed 3,140 healthcare workers and carers during the period from 8 to 15 December 2020, show that in the period after the peak of the second wave of the crisis, the severity of mental and physical reactions is still high. For more recent depression figures, please refer to the fifth national COVID-19 health survey of Sciensano. However, this study was reduced by the whole population and not by the care staff alone. The fourth COVID-19 health survey shows more figures on the incidence of suicide attempts. This was published in October and can be consulted on the site of Sciensano. No figures are yet available on the number of suicides in 2020. Therefore, we will only know the actual impact of the corona crisis on the number of suicide attempts and the number of suicides over time when we have all the data. That must then allow us to make a good analysis to understand what has happened in this terrible crisis and what impact it has on the very sad phenomenon of people who end their lives. So, Mrs Depoorter, I cannot really give you a lot of robust analyses on this. That's what keeps us busy, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u57	Mr. Secretary, you actually only have one minute left. I don't know how many more questions you have to answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u58	Not too much. It's not that bad. But there are so many questions. I'll try to move on quickly. I'll run, if I may. Mrs Gijbels, in answer to your question No. 550012579C on hospital compensation, I can say that the first provisional statement was made at the end of December 2020. The calculations were made on the basis of a royal decree defining the intervention. The hospitals received this week both the synthesis of the calculations in December and the invoicing data used. Between sending the accounts and sending the data, the responsible authorities received all kinds of reactions from the hospitals. These reactions are analysed in contact with certain test hospitals and with the hospital federations to explain the problems. On 27 January, tomorrow, a meeting is planned with the governments and federations to take stock of the situation. We are doing our best to clarify quickly so that the second provisional statement is as good as possible. Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Sneppe, Ivermectin has not at present been approved for use in the prevention or treatment of COVID-19, either by the EEA or by the FDA. According to the FDA website, the quality of the clinical studies published so far is insufficient to draw conclusions. A study was conducted on ivermectin, but its positive results can be interpreted with great caution. There were six types of therapeutic partial studies in which people were treated therapeutically in different ways. The first four concerned the therapeutic treatment of covid patients at different stages of the disease. Azythromycin was also administered to all patients in these groups. No placebo was included for comparison. So one cannot actually make a real analysis that is robust. It was also a small group of patients. The last two studies were on the use of ivermectin as preventive treatment, but the follow-up only lasted two weeks. Then one cannot draw any conclusions either. Literature research has also been carried out by a research group from Liverpool. This was published in the journal Frontiers in Pharmacology. The positive effect of ivermectin in severe and mildly ill patients and chemoprevention is suggested, but the peer review is not yet available. In addition, a compilation of small, very heterogeneous studies with different endpoints is susceptible to multiple biases. That's what the authors say. The Task Force Treatment, which deals with the treatment of COVID-19-hospitalised patients, reviews the available scientific literature on possible COVID-19 treatments on a monthly basis. Sometimes the task force does so earlier, when certain crucial studies are published. With regard to ivermectin, the Task Force Treatment concluded in its latest review on 1 December that the first evidence from observational studies appears to indicate some possible positive effects on treatment. That advice and assessment is available on the website of Sciensano. The Committee will not give a recommendation for the medicinal product until more reliable data from randomised clinical trials are available. There are currently no clinical studies on the use of ivermectin in Belgium. If the KCE participates in such a study, you will find it on its website. Mrs Farih, you asked a question about long-term COVID-19. My colleague tells me that there is no difference between the answer I can give you today and the answer I gave at the previous committee meeting. Since the answer is really the same, I suggest that I refer to the answer I gave at the previous committee meeting, also to buy time now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u59	Minister, I did not receive an answer at the last meeting. The answer would be given in writing, but it did not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u60	Mrs Farih, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you the answer now, because I think it's important. Madam President, I would like to ask for a little more time. Mrs Farih, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, an increasing number of patients are recovering from SARS-CoV-2 infection. More and more observational studies show that some patients may experience a wide range of symptoms after the recovery of the acute disease. These include lingering tiredness, dyspnoea, thoracic pain and cough. In addition, psychological and cognitive problems are reported, particularly when the infection has gone seriously. Many of these symptoms are not unique to COVID-19 and similar to reported problems after the recovery of other viral diseases, life-threatening diseases and/or sepsis. It is difficult to clearly describe the post-covid disease. Where the focus in 2020 was mainly on the reception of acute infections, in 2021, attention will also be paid to the management of the long-term effects, supported by scientific evidence, which is still under development. It looks forward to a report from the KCE, which it is currently working on. The focus of that report is on a thorough review of the current scientific literature, a qualitative study of the experiences and needs of post-COVID-19 patients and the description of the current reimbursed care applicable to that patient group. As the scientific evidence becomes more robust, the focus will be on the elaboration of clear guidelines for the individual caregivers in the preparation of the diagnostic bilan and a treatment plan, good coordination of the patient's needs and the provision of quality information with an overview of the current scientific evidence. So I'm looking forward to that report from the KCE. Mr. Rigot, on lung injuries, Sciensano does not conduct longitudinal clinical studies to track patients over the long term with chest control scanners. Some hospitals and pneumonologists have taken the initiative of following their patients covid with control scanners to document this phenomenon, such as the UZ Gent. However, these results are not yet available online in the form of a publication or report. Within Sciensano, the possibility of studying the long-term consequences of the infection in collaboration with the KCE, which I have just mentioned in response to Ms. Farih, is being explored. The issue of homelessness, Mrs Rohonyi, has already been discussed in the Committee on Home Affairs by my colleague, Mrs Verlinden. I'm getting to the sewage analysis. The national surveillance of the coronavirus in wastewater does not allow the detection of some novice clusters or variants of the virus, yet not in the current state. Waste water provides an instrument for monitoring on a larger scale, as we cover populations in the order of 100,000 to 200,000 people. However, scientific progress and ongoing developments can increase the potential of this instrument in the future, but this will not be for the coming months. Developments must be seen in the long term. The results are not yet communicated, yet not systematically, except to the project partners. These are UAntwerp, UGent, UNamur, SPGE, Aquafin, SBGE and e-biom. The epidemiological team of the project coordinated by Sciensano is now working with the partners on the application of correction factors necessary for the correct interpretation of the results. Once the waste water curves have been corrected, they will be communicated in the same way as for the other epidemiological indicators. This is, on the one hand, through a dashboard accessible to the public, on the other hand by analysing the waste water indicators at the level of the RAG's risk assessment group. This will complement the other indicators we have at our disposal. The regional public health agencies shall also be kept informed as members of the project support committee. New developments in the instrument are also planned. From mid-February, additional laboratory analyses are planned to work with results of a more quantitative nature, which will benefit the results. In addition, an additional budget has been requested to work on the development of the method for the detection of new variants in wastewater. A pilot project will start if the results prove effective. Ms. Rohonyi, according to Sciensano, only two other studies were published, apart from that of CIM (the Montreal Institute of Cardiology), evaluating colchicine in the treatment of covid-19: a Brazilian study with less than 30 participants and whose publication has not yet been peer reviewed and GRECCO-19 study, which reports encouraging results, but with a number of participants too small to conclude (only 50 patients on placebo and 5 patients on colchicin). Currently, colchicine is not used for the treatment of covid-19. Note that the Montreal data have only been provided by a press release and not all results are yet available or peer reviewed. The place of this treatment will be evaluated once the results are available with the task force treatment. Animal-food transmission: to avoid infecting a cat, a golden hamster, a ferret that has shown sensitivity to the virus by experimental infection, it would be better to keep a protection on the nose or on the mouth for a very close contact. Wash your hands after caressing your animal and not let your face lick. The dog seems very little sensitive to infection. So far, only a limited number of cases of human contamination of a pet animal are known. In Belgium, only one cat was tested positive. To avoid being infected by an animal, the same hygiene rules will be observed. Most importantly, the risk of transmitting the pet virus to humans is negligible in relation to the risk of direct contact transmission between humans. With regard to dogs trained in the detection of covid-19, Ms. Taquin, the study on the detection of covid-19 by dogs can be followed on the Facebook page of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Ghent. The intermediate results are positive, but the official results will not be known until early February. Let's get to the point of wearing the mask at birth. Madame de Laveleye, is there currently a shortage of masks? No! We currently have a total of 28 million FFP2 masks in stock: 14 million ATPs that are tested OK and 14 million ATP masks with tape noses. Are there general guidelines for hospitals regulating the care of parturients in order to respect their autonomy and their specific needs? As mentioned above, there are general guidelines on the prevention and control of infections, which hospitals adapt to their local realities and possibilities. This will continue to apply. In particular, these guidelines require patients to wear a mouth mask if possible, when in contact with health care personnel. We remain convinced that our health care professionals are committed to the interests of their patients and that they treat them with respect. Nevertheless, we will contact the professional associations of obstetrics and gynaecology to see if they can exchange experiences between colleagues and eventually achieve more uniform procedures, even if a certain heterogeneity should be accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u61	Members are still entitled to a reply. I suppose the minister can stay for that. A motion of recommendation has been tabled by Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u62	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to grant the incentive premium to other categories of persons who are currently "forgotten" for this premium (in particular paramedics and maintenance staff of companies providing services to hospitals); - to challenge the incentive premium for all hospital and non-hospital staff who benefit from it." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Health, asks the government - to grant the incentive premium to the other categories of persons who do not currently receive the premium (including the ambulances and maintenance staff of the service companies); - exempt from tax the incentive premium for all persons receiving the premium, whether or not they work in a hospital." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u63	The minister did not answer my question. Can I, in this case, turn it into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u64	No, that's not possible. I hear your question is attached to others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u65	No, it was in the debate. As it has not been answered, I turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u66	I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u67	Madam President, I do not want to waste any time, and I would like to ask my colleague to turn to a written question, but in the previous topical and urgent debate I asked him to do the same. At that time, because of the secretariat, I received the answer that transposition was not possible and that I had to put a new question. To avoid red tape from our colleague's concern, I would recommend that he re-table his question as a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u68	Thank you for the suggestion. I suggest we get the replies started.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u69	Madam President, I forgot to answer your questions regarding the iClean Swab. Mrs Depoorter, I can answer very quickly, if you will.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u70	I would have told you otherwise. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u71	First, normally no CE certificate is required for class 1 medical devices. However, since these swabs claim to be sterile, the sterility aspect requires a CE certificate. On 23 July 2020 it was found that the CE certificate was not present and the lottery tickets found were quarantined. Secondly, a complaint was lodged by a company operating in that domain on 20 January 2021. So that was probably after you submitted your question. There would be swabs of that type in circulation. The FAGG investigates the complaint and has contacted the company concerned in order to obtain more information. Thirdly, it is the responsibility of the manufacturer to carry out such quality checks. The tests were carried out by the company that filed a complaint, as you probably know. However, the established non-conformity of 23 July 2020 is already sufficient to prohibit the circulation of the swabs. Every fate found in the territory has been quarantined. The same applies if new lottery tickets are located. That was a brief answer to your three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u72	Minister, I agree with you that it is difficult for you to answer such a number of questions during an actua debate, just as it is difficult for us to get all our questions asked. We actually have a solution to this and I would like to present it to you again. I have already pointed out to colleagues a few times that there is a system of technical sessions, every week or every two weeks, in the Dutch House of Representatives, where there is a comprehensive overview of certain institutions. If we were given such a presentation by Sciensano or other institutions, a large part of the questions would have been answered. Many of the questions that are asked here are not political in nature. I asked you about the GEMS report, because I still find it very unclear where all these reports can be found. That of the GEMS is on info-coronavirus.be, that of the RAG is with Sciensano and that of the RMG is on the website of the FOD. I therefore call for a central point where all these documents can be systematically consulted. I understand that no decision has yet been taken on the vaccination passport or on the vaccination certificate. Who advises you on that? Could a proposal on this be brought to Parliament, if necessary, so that we can discuss it? As far as sewage is concerned, a weekly measurement is carried out in the Netherlands at 236 locations. Then there is a report per safety region. The Netherlands has 25 of them, which gives a fairly detailed picture of upcoming increases in the infections. I would like to urge that we should be committed to this, so that we can take this parameter into account when tackling the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I find it a little strange because, at a previous meeting, there was indeed talk of cooperation between the federal level and the Länder to deploy and send volunteers to the vaccination centres. If I understand your answer correctly, you say that it is entirely up to the Länder to organise it and also to determine which professions will be working in the centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u74	No. I've tried to express myself nuancedly. I said that the approach comes mainly from the Länder. We try to do everything in cooperation in the task force. The task force is really interfederal, but there are some issues, such as the question that your question was about, for which I find it somewhat difficult to tell urbi et orbi at the federal level how things are going to be or what the plans are going to be, as the approach to our cooperation on this issue comes mainly from the Länder. I do not want to shuffle that off because we are working together, but it is more a matter of where the weight lies in cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u75	I think it's a little weird that you can't tell me how many volunteers have signed up. I sometimes feel that you claim jurisdiction when things go well, but when something goes wrong, you systematically shift it to the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u76	Allez, Mrs Van Camp, I've been much more with bad news about vaccines on TV than with good news, and it will remain so. The fact that I'd be throwing off bad news is, frankly, the strangest accusation you can make.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u77	That's my global feeling. Previously, the story was: "We look at it with those volunteers and we send it and our mailbox is full of applications," but when asked how many registrations there are and who sends them, the Länder have to record it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u78	Mrs. Van Camp, did I ever mention that my mailbox was full of applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u79	That was said the last session, I think you left. The Members who were present will be able to confirm it, it was said at that time by the people who were represented by the government and I think you are all bringing the same story. You also say that the Länder or the first-line zones must decide which professions will do so. Hopefully we will be on the eve of the vaccinations. If I understand correctly, that working group is still considering the exact funding for this. I believe that this is of little respect to the volunteers, for example the home nurses. The volunteers do not know today if they are going to sign up to help in such a centre and we will need a great deal of strength about how that will be arranged and what remuneration is against it. I hope there'll be clarity soon enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u80	Minister, you say that the swabs do not need a CE certificate because they claim to be sterile. I remember from my husband's medical courses that people talked about the triangle de la mort, between the mouth and the brain. It is really necessary, then, that a swab that is brought into the nose is sterile and that the quality is also guaranteed. You're saying there's been a quarantine. I didn't find it anywhere. The pharmacist's association, to whom I had asked my questions, has also found this nowhere. There are currently three complaints and three particular types that are suspected that the aberration test is not in order. It is true that this would be no harm for a one-off test, but if we are going to push up to the contact professions, I would urge you to really do a thorough investigation into that, to check that quality and possibly do a recall, as is the case in these cases, to bring those swabs to our patients in a safe way. You did not give me an answer to the question of who negotiated at the FAGG and what the decision-making boom was. It is actually the fourth time that we have seen a certain sloppyness in the decision-making process. I advise you to follow that very carefully. I would like to make two further points. Excuse me, colleagues. The syringes, the CE certificates you are talking about, will also have to be very careful whether the quality standards are standardized. We've had the discussion about the medical devices and the CE certificates. There's still some work to be done. As far as suppliers are concerned, the guarantees you mentioned do not reassure me. About the vaccination rate, one word: we're too slow. The 20,000 vaccines we miss from the Netherlands, you did not give me an answer. You don't care, but I do care: 60,000 vaccines we missed. Dan AstraZeneca. We signed up three months later than the United Kingdom, so we have fewer rights. Is there a time clause or not? I just read that Sweden has stopped paying. Why don't you just sit on the table and make no demands? Our people have a right to a vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u81	Madam President, I will devote a minute to my reply, and Mrs Creemers will complete. Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the rules on childbirth, one might think that this is a somewhat anecdotal subject in view of the crisis we are facing, but several thousand women have given birth since the beginning of the crisis and we continue to be regularly questioned on this subject. I hear your answer that somewhat more uniform guidelines could be given in hospitals, but I would like to point out that the World Health Organization (WHO) does not recommend wearing the mask during a sporting activity. You will agree with me that giving birth requires at least as much effort as sporting activity and that forcing women to wear the mask during childbirth puts their health in difficulty. This is still the case in most maternity wards in Belgium. The platform for a respected birth recommends abandoning this practice. We therefore believe that you can play a role in this regard and send a clear message to the different maternity wards in the country. Indeed, we believe that it is up to the government not to lay down strict rules, but to convey a message that is heard by both women and practitioners, all the more so, you say, that there is no shortage of masks at the moment. We continue to encourage you to send a clear message on this issue that we consider essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your answer on the voluntary commitment of home nurses, namely that we do not now assume that we will need them voluntarily. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that volunteers are being asked at the moment. It is therefore logical that the nurses should ask themselves whether they will be employed professionally later on. If that is not the case and there are deficits, they want to know where they stand now if they volunteer. They are asking for clarity quickly and we must give it to them quickly. I have also listened with great attention to your answers to the questions about the tests, especially the test strategy that has been adapted in relation to the schools, because I have experienced it very closely myself. My son had high-risk contact at school. He sat next to an infected girl in the classroom and the CLB didn't estimate it as a high risk and didn't even want to give him a quick test. I hear from a lot of parents that there is still a lot of noise on communication. When I hear testimonies from the other schools in Limburg and I hear my GP talking about the downfalls in the test strategy, I think it is not surprising that we are currently having so many outbreaks in school. I would like to make a very specific recommendation on this. New guidelines for primary schools were issued from Sciensano yesterday, but no one really knows what the strategy is about in secondary schools at the moment. It is assumed that the pupils wear their mouth masks all the time, while they also sit in the classroom to eat. There are still a lot of hooks and eyes to that and I didn't know that, until I went to the doctor myself with my son to have him tested. I know that Mr De Caluwé noted a few weeks ago that linking Coronalert to a doctor's test was still very difficult and I found yesterday that this is still the case. General practitioners have been working for a long time to link it up and some labs just can't even do it. I just wanted to give you that because I've been through it myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u83	Madam President, I have no particular reply. I'm not telling you that some of my questions didn't really get answers or they were rather evasive. As far as Pfizer and AstraZeneca are concerned, we know that the question is put in the hands of Europe, but we will obviously follow developments with great attention. For AstraZeneca, there is not yet an authorisation from the European Agency. It is clear that this vaccination should not be traded because it is a matter of public health. On the other hand, at the testing level, I heard that we were going to insist on the testing of travellers. I think that, for other categories of people, testing should also be strengthened and that certain categories should be tested massively. Minister, thank you for your other answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u84	Mr Minister, I must honestly admit that I have answered all my questions to my great surprise today, or I have seen them dealt with in any way. After all, you didn't have all the data. However, it is certainly a clarity which I appreciate. After all, you have also clearly stated what data you have and what data you do not have, which might allow me to repeat the questions in question in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u85	Mr Secretary, I cannot bring as happy news as Mr Creyelman. Apparently one week my colleague is fully served and the other week I am. If that is the case, we will agree to it in the future. Mr Minister, I am surprised by your answer to the question about ivermectin. You say that the existing studies look good. Furthermore, nothing is done about it. Apparently, it's not important enough to put time and money into it. Apparently, the priorities are with the vaccine. However, such products are often much cheaper than the vaccine. The vaccine has also not proven how long someone who has been vaccinated is immune to the virus. We will therefore need therapy or medicine for a long time to prevent or treat the virus. Therefore, my humble opinion is that you should be better placed to investigate such drugs, which will ensure that, if they become ill despite the vaccine, they can at least be treated properly, thereby helping to reduce hospitalisation. So that is a very bizarre answer, which is not an answer. You say, on the one hand, that there are studies. When the KCE makes studies about it, I'll have to look them up myself on the site. I expected a more detailed answer from you. Maybe that's something you should take with you to your expert virologists, that a little more money and time can be spent on all those products. We got 'em. They are used for other diseases. If we used them for covid, wouldn't that be a plus? I don't understand where that non-interest and maybe dislike comes from.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u86	Minister, I thank you for some of your answers, but I would really like to see this done every week. For months, I have been asking you – like many scientists and certain agents – for factual information, scientific studies, rapid and large-scale screening, especially in schools, as well as more important protective measures, if necessary. Now, you're telling me that an update has been requested at the covid-19 station. All right. I hear you say you don't want to give your opinion before the announcement of measures; that's almost word for word what you answered on 16 December on the same subject. I note that after hearing you declare "Circulate, there's nothing to see" in schools, we have been seeing a steady increase in children and young people for 40 days. Again this morning, an 84 per cent increase was observed in children under the age of 12 and an 18 per cent increase in adolescents. I hear you'll have a meeting on this on Thursday. This is indeed essential because one cannot continue to ask parents to be careful while stating that life in school can itself become a source of contamination. Imagine the choice before which you place the parents! I did not have an answer on the level determined by the experts which would involve, if reached, additional measures in the schools. Meanwhile, schools live one thing and its opposite on both sides of the linguistic border. However, the territorial management of the spread seems to me to be outdated. Your answer to my question about the measure concerning high-risk contact cases in schools, which has been in place since yesterday, is not clear. It does not clarify the question of the spacing only of the person sitting next to the positive case. What about the rest of the class? What about the teacher? I have never asked you, Mr Minister, to shut down the schools, but every week I ask you for a coherent strategy, to be the driving force behind a planned and uniform action for our schools, even if the institution of our country is complicated. This is about protective equipment, adaptation, rapid screening. I am fully aware that you are not Minister of Education, but you are the Federal Minister of Health, and therefore of the health of all Belgians. I repeat, families are squashed, which is not acceptable. Again, decisions are not planned. They are scattered and appear incomplete for common sense. We grope, which creates anxiety when we need didactic, common and uniform communication on our small national territory. Finally, I would like to thank you for your answer to my question on the Independent Nurses Bonus. This is a positive and important precision. Of course, the payment will have to be made as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u87	I have received an answer to almost all my questions, Minister, for which I am grateful. You have replied very comprehensively and in detail. I would like to draw attention to the young people sitting on their gums. A lot of people had their hopes focused on the coronabarometer that could offer some perspective. We often see in the press that certain stages are being made by the GEMS, with a plan B and a plan C, with, for example, the closure of non-essential shops. That does scare some people, especially young people who are looking for a certain perspective. If we could work on this barometer that offers prospects for the younger generation, we could take greater steps in terms of mental well-being and greater acceptance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u88	Mr Merckx apologized. She had a double booking. I see no one from Open Vld is here anymore. Mr Jiroflée also apologized for the reply. Mrs Fonck, you have more time, because of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u89	Minister, thank you for your answers. When you say that it takes a lot of time for the administration, I will allow myself to greet first of all its work. It is true that some questions are more technical, but you have made some clarifications. At the same time, recognize that in a debate like this, it is first and foremost your strategic decisions as a member of the government – together with other health ministers – that are addressed by these issues. Therefore, it is not up to the administration to provide these responses. It is up to you, first and foremost, to answer the vast majority of the questions asked. Furthermore, with regard to the inquiry, I have tabled a motion on the incentive allowance for home nurses. I've been going on with this for a long time. This is a question of equity, whether they are wage earners or self-employed. I hear what you said about that today. In any case, I hope that will be the case. Obviously, it's on the way to the INAMI side. On the other hand, I persist and sign, some categories of hospital staff are forgotten. This is the case for employees of cleaning companies who provide services as subcontractors and whose exclusive work it is. In addition, their wages are very modest. This is a very small group of workers. The same applies to paramedics, many of whom have not been entitled to this premium. This small group of workers deserve respect and recognition for their investment throughout 2020 - and therefore for this crisis. Their role has been crucial. Therefore, not granting them this premium is not acceptable. That is as it is in the motion that I have tabled. My point also applies to the defiance of the premium, an objective that the government does not seem to share. However, I remember several bonuses that had been defied not so long ago in favour of several very specific categories. I remember, in health care, that there had been some for general practitioners. In this matter, let me not be told that it is impossible. When one grants an incentive premium of 985 euros and when I see what remains after tax deduction, I find that there is a form of indecency. It would be a strong gesture towards caregivers to challenge this bonus. It would grow all of us. We will see what the vote of the other parties in your government will be. I would now like to highlight a few points, if I may, Madam President, about vaccination. I do not agree with you when you say that the pace of vaccination today is acceptable. You are not at all in a good position in the European peloton when you compare. Unfortunately, we are in the right ones. It must be made a top priority, Minister. I made it clear earlier. It is about saving lives, but it is also what will allow us to give a perspective. The faster we vaccinate fragile people, the faster we avoid deaths and hospitalizations, the faster we will allow economic recovery, the faster we will allow our young people to get out of an extremely difficult psychological situation and the faster we will define. However, if we keep to the current pace, the comparison has been made at European level, we have until September 2024 to reach 70%. If I am your point, with 50,000 vaccinations a week, it is not enough either, since it is more than 50,000 vaccinations a day that must be achieved. What strikes me is that, in fact, you have no opening on the proposals that would allow us to go much faster than today in the gravissim crisis we are experiencing. I think it's a matter of concern, because when we have a limited number of vaccines and we are in a crisis as serious as we are in, yes, the public authorities must take the bull by the horns and find solutions. At the level of the FFP2 masks, on the Sciensano site, there is always the directive for caregivers wearing a surgical mask, while we know, with the mutants much more contagious, that the risk of aerosolization and therefore of contamination is much greater. I continue to argue that caregivers should now wear an FFP2 mask, that the Sciensano recommendation should be adapted and that, in parallel, the authorities should put and the masks and budgets available so that this can be the case. On testing, I cannot say otherwise: I also do not share your position on the matter. There is a need for much more systematic testing of pupils and teachers in schools every week or every fortnight with salivary tests, and in companies where there is no work. You inform us that there are three contacts per carrier identified as part of the tracing and that we do not have data on effective isolation. This demonstrates the inadequacy of this policy, while alongside vaccination, testing, tracing and isolating is crucial. We're in a light mode while we should be in a warrior mode. In this regard, I therefore do not share your position. Finally, I would like to conclude with two suggestions. First, to identify patients at risk in the context of vaccination, let us remember that the data on which to base are linked to the patient's record. The doctors suggested that a "covid" prescription be made. I think that's a good suggestion. Patients can then make an appointment with the vaccination centre. In any case, a correct formula must be found for patients and that respects their data. Secondly, I plead again that we have open data, since, quite recently, researchers have called Sciensano for a series of data. They received an acknowledgement of receipt. Maybe they'll get the data in the next month. In short, it still remains, ten months after the start of the crisis, an intractable element. Let's focus on collective intelligence! You have there mathematicians, researchers who could support Sciensano in the work done. It would be for the benefit of everyone. Last small point about the €20 premium for general practitioners under the DMG. It was a positive position, I always said. Compared to what you said earlier, I will clarify things a little more thoroughly. INAMI announced that the $162 million under the DMG supplement was part of the medical fee budget covered by the loss of specialists' fees related to covid-19. In other words, indeed, this general practitioner premium was funded with the loss of the income of the specialist physicians, who had been banned from working to obviously maintain all activity towards covid-19 care. When we know the financial situation of hospitals, all the more so in the context of this crisis, I must say that this is an issue of concern. Yes, I repeat what I told you earlier, and I confirm it here. This is now clearly demonstrated and I have been able to put the points on the i. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u90	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your answers, although it is still far too vague and uncertain. First of all, with regard to the analysis of genomes, which is fundamental in order to be able to track these variants at best, you evoke an envelope of samples that can be analysed by specifying that in the course of a month and a half, in the end only 1,215 samples would have been analysed. This seems to me very little, especially given the fact that in England, the Wellcome Sanger Institute has committed itself to receiving tens of thousands of samples every day, and it is also known that WHO is calling on States to improve and accelerate the sequencing capacity. Minister, we still do not know what the current weekly detection capability is or how the samples that are tested by these laboratories are selected. You didn't answer my question. As far as young people are concerned, I understand that Commissioner Covid will provide you with an analysis of the covid data for the famous ad hoc meeting on Thursday. You say "hope" that this data contains an analysis of clusters and tests carried out in schools. In other words, there is no certainty about this, whereas it seems to me that it is still the least thing to be able to adopt measures that are well-founded and, consequently, accepted by the public. Young people who already suffer enough in this crisis should not be unfairly penalized. Mr Minister, I would therefore ask you to insist that this data be available before this meeting, especially since epidemiologists maintain that children are not the driving force behind the epidemic. As far as vaccination is concerned, I understand that the list to be provided by the Higher Council of Health on priority groups still needs to be validated by the Interdepartmental Conference on Health. Can you tell us when we can expect this list? Indeed, as much as I can understand, our vaccination strategy must be flexible, even though I feel that we are still more flexible on the basis of the goodwill of companies than on the basis of the choices made proactively by our country, so much so that I cannot understand how, today, we can leave our citizens in the light of their perspective of vaccination. You insist that we should be able to give them perspectives. Today, they don't have them. I'm thinking about the teachers. I'm thinking of the police. I am also thinking of family workers who still need information. Nor do I understand how doctors and nurses can simply be excluded from the vaccination task force, when our vaccination strategy is based almost entirely on them. In fact, in the Covid Special Committee, the doctors and nurses confirmed that their requests to do so had been refused. I am also concerned when you tell us that the Vaccinnet platform, which has been active for some time in Flanders, still needs to be developed. You tell us that it is in the process of being developed to be widespread throughout the country, while it contains vital information, including reported side effects. Can you assure us that, despite this, vaccination data are correctly encoded in the three regions of the country? Finally, I have not received any reply with regard to the health protocols surrounding the resumption of the sectors which are still at a standstill. I'd put you through a whole series of leads. In the meantime, the contact trades still don't know what foot to dance on. They still do not know the context within which their resumption can be envisaged and the conditions surrounding it. I still do not know whether vaccination data will be taken into account in the reflection on the recovery of sectors. I think common sense commands to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-26-definitief-55-commissie-ic349x.u91	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to let you leave. I think we've all had quite a reply. Thank you for staying with us for a little longer. Colleagues, I'm sure we'll see each other soon. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
