ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I am asking this question in connection with two incidents involving trains in Limburg at the end of April. On Tuesday 20 April the morning trains from Hasselt to Brussels were quite full. All the seats were occupied, as well as the pitches and the halls at the doors. Everything was full and the distance rule of 1.5 meters could not be respected. How can it be justified that passengers are so close to each other in full corona period? Do you think the transport there was coronaproof? What conclusion do you draw from this incident? Why was the choice made not to use a double-deck train and also to opt for a shorter train? Do you think there was enough anticipation of work in the neighborhood? On Sunday evening 25 April the train Hasselt-Blankenberge in Sint-Truiden was shut down. There were about 300 passengers on that train, mostly students on their way to their quarters. They were taken off the train because they were too close together and stood. The train was way too full. However, according to the SNCB app, on which I have another question later, there were still places available. What's the cause of the incident? What do you think of that? Could the incident have been avoided? Why did the local police of Saint-Truiden have to come and solve it, dixit the chief of police? Was the internal security service of SNCB, Securail or the railway police contacted? Will any fines for students for violating curfew be reimbursed for arriving in Brussels after 10 p.m.? What measures have been taken, what lessons have been learned to prevent a repetition of the facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u2	We all know, Mr Minister, that SNCB's framework rule is well known to us. Fortunately, the measure was only temporary, because it was very absurd and, as the PVDA had already indicated, not to maintain it either. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Can you reconstruct the incident in question? How many seats were there on the train? Was the first class open to everyone? Is it true that SNCB's app indicated that there was enough room on the train? How many times did the police have to intervene to enforce the window rule? Were additional trains to the coast laid in during the period during which the window rule was applicable? Can people who have been deported from a train on the basis of the window rule file a claim for damages with SNCB or demand a refund?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u3	Minister, the problem has already been outlined. We all know what incidents have occurred recently. So I'm mainly looking to the future. In May 2021 there are a lot of holiday days. The window rule has since been abolished. Hopefully the chance of good weather is greater. However, the state of health in our country is still precarious. Mr Miniser, to what extent is SNCB capable of guaranteeing safety on the train and reducing traffic? How do you evaluate the window rule? Is the rule worth repeating? Has there been any consultation with the coastal mayors on the approach following the lifting of the window rule? What additional measures did this entail? The pressure detector is still regularly ignored. How does SNCB evaluate the use of the pressure detector? How will SNCB optimize the traffic detector to steer the traffic on the trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u4	Minister, the situation has already been explained in detail by the previous speakers. You are undoubtedly aware that there are frequently overcrowded trains between Hasselt and Leuven or Brussels, especially on Sunday evenings when barf students go to the student cities. The problem that occurred on Sunday evening 25 April received a lot of attention because it was known that the window rule applied to that train. I think a lot of journalists were waiting for something to happen. This is not really a new situation, because according to the students, overcrowded student trains have been a common problem since January. That train from Hasselt is linked to Blankenberge, so that window rule could be applied. That rule only applied to the trains to the coast. One could discuss the spirit and the letter of the rule, but I do not think that the rule in itself is worth too much attention, whereas the capacity of the trains and the student trains between Hasselt, Leuven and Brussels is. Minister, are you aware of these problems? Are there any problems with capacity on the other lines to student cities? Was this discussed with SNCB? In what way will it be ensured that students can safely and comfortably take the train to their quarters on Sunday evenings and on other days?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u5	Mr Minister, keeping your distance over the next few weeks and months remains highly commendable, including on public transport. We had a debate on this in plenary a month ago, in particular about the crowds on the trains to the coast. At that time, I suggested that we consider whether a reservation system could not provide a solace. Even worse than not being able to buy a ticket because the train is full, it was able to buy a ticket and then find in the station that one can no longer get on the train. At that time, Minister, you said that you were prepared to examine a reservation system, possibly limited to certain destinations or certain moments. Is that what happened? What was the result of that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u6	You are asking me today about an exceptional and temporary measure taken by the Conciliation Committee on 19 March. As planned, this measure expired at the end of April and the end of this measure will prevent similar incidents in the future. I'll come back later on the student train incident. As far as the general context is concerned, SNCB naturally follows the security measures imposed on it. During this period, SNCB ensured that a sufficient number of trains were operated. In addition, SNCB has taken a lot of necessary measures, in particular through the use of additional staff and a good flow of information to travellers, so that all travel can proceed as well as possible. I would therefore like to thank her for this important commitment. There are always exceptions, but they were rare. Material can always fail, corona or not. It can always happen that convoys did not have enough vehicles, but that was an exception. Mrs Verhaert, a meeting with the parties concerned took place on 26 April to evaluate the measure and prepare for future weeks. With the reopening of the catering industry next weekend things will be easier, even with the vaccination that is now going well in our country. A few improvements can be made to the pressure measurement via the MoveSafe app. This includes the fact that the app does not take into account the capacity utilisation that can change dramatically during the journey. For example, it can be low when boarding, but high from the next stop. Another example is the fact that the app starts from the current location when searching, while the user indicates that he prefers to search from station to station. SNCB tells me to work actively on these points, which I can only encourage, of course. The rule agreed in the Consultation Committee on 19 March did not lead to significant incidents on 25 April. I'm happy about that. The train from Hasselt to Blankenberge was shut down on the evening of 25 April near Sint-Truiden. We could read that in the paper. Because at that time the window rule for trains to the coast was still in force, there were indeed more passengers on the train than theoretically acceptable. These were mainly students returning to their student city. The train attendant stopped the train in Sint-Truiden and called the security people of Securail. They in turn informed the local police. The police took about 300 students off the train. The train finally stopped for about 50 minutes and was able to leave just before 21 hours. SNCB put in an extra train so that everyone could finally reach their destination. This incident was brought to an end in peace and quiet, for which I would like to thank all those involved. I deeply regret this one-off incident and hope that it will not prevent the students concerned from taking the train in the future. As far as SNCB knows, no fines were issued, which I like. Mr Van den Bergh, your question about Sunday trains to the university cities has already reached me from different parts of the country. I myself have often asked questions about the students who travel from Luxembourg to Brussels or Louvain-la-Neuve every Sunday evening. I will therefore ask SNCB for a state of affairs, and I will inform them of the possibilities of strengthening the offer where it is needed from September on Sunday evening. Mr Vandenbroucke, as I said in plenary, I asked the FPS Mobility to carry out a study on what is possible with regard to a reservation system. I have not yet received the results of that study, which will be something for the next few weeks. I'll be sure to keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. However, you have not answered certain questions. A number of things remain incomprehensible to me. Working in the neighborhood is known that one cannot drive the usual double deck trains. Then one would expect to ride longer trains. If, for some technical reasons, there are shorter trains, while there are many students and many ordinary travellers in the morning, then I do not understand why they were no longer anticipated. As Mr Vandenbroucke says, there has been a wide-ranging debate on this issue months ago. It is supposedly always one-off, exceptional and temporary incidents, but they continue to occur. I understand that some Members say that the framework rule is an interpretation and that we should not pay too much attention to it, but the interpretation given to it has made a difference for this train to Blankenberge. Of course, the people who take this train go to their quarters and not to the sea, but it was interpreted that they were only allowed to sit on that train at the window, which caused problems. In my view, there is an important responsibility on the part of the government for this crazy and unexplained measure that it has taken. I also mentioned the aspect that the local police of Saint-Truiden had to come and solve the cases. In recent weeks, I have also taken note of the warning given to the Internal Security Service of Securail. The nearest team at that time was a team from outside the province, of Leuven, where they were doing a stop and go. In the end, two agents of Securail jumped headlong into the car and drove to the station of Sint-Truiden. When they arrived, the case had already been dealt with by the local police. This shows once again that the Securail staffing framework needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u8	Minister, you know that we were against the window rule from the outset. It was an absurd rule that was discriminatory and unworkable. I hear the app didn't tell me it was too busy. That's problematic, isn't it? Then that app doesn't work, just like Coronalert doesn't use anyone. Nor did you answer my question as to whether the first-class vehicles were opened up or not. That was one of our positive proposals during this period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u9	That's what happened, like it always does. That is the rule and it was applied as always to the decision of the train supervisor. I said that before, and that was no different from the window rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u10	It would be better if the rule were to be applied in general and not only on the initiative of the train manager. You're saying no claims were filed. Do the people who bought a ticket and couldn't leave get their ticket refunded? You did not answer that question either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u11	Everyone was able to take the train during the period when the window rule was applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u12	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We've been facing corona for over a year. The incidents continue and I hear you say that we are waiting for a report. It is a pity that this is still being said in this corona crisis. We've been asking for an app that shows the hustle and bustle for some time. We need to focus more on improving it. We are talking about a reservation system, but in the Netherlands, for example, there is a registration system where the travellers themselves can indicate the hustle and bustle. This is also important and forward-looking. The vaccination rate is rising and the corona numbers are falling, but the next month there will be extended weekends and better weather. We must avoid such incidents, because we cannot now say that we are suddenly facing the corona crisis. After all, it has existed for a long time now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am largely in agreement with Mr Verhaert's reply. It is important to be well prepared for the coming month. I have the impression that SNCB minimizes and eliminates the situation of 25 April as exceptional and states that the window rule has only caused problems once. There's been a lot of traffic on the student trains for a long time. The students report that themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u15	That's two different things. There's a problem with the crowds on the student trains, and I'm aware of that. With the window rule, there was only one problem, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u16	I think that the hustle and bustle on the student trains in corona times is something that needs to be solved structurally, which is why I wanted to mention that. Furthermore, we look forward to the results of the study of the FOD, indicating that it is not the intention to introduce a reservation system for each train. For certain tourist destinations or additional tourist trains that are being laid in, this might perhaps be a solution, so I hope that this will also be examined with the necessary flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your punctual and clear answers, including my question concerning the study of reservation systems. I am very much looking forward to that with my colleague Van den Bergh. I'm still a believer in that. That should indeed be limited to certain destinations or certain moments. Mrs Vindevoghel, I can confirm that the first class cars are now being opened up as soon as it gets a little too crowded on the train. That's more the rule now than the exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u18	Mr President, Minister, my question dates from a few weeks ago, but nevertheless I think it can be a coat rack for the questions I would like to ask now. This weekend, the restaurants are opening the doors a bit and that is a rebreath for many of us, not the least for the catering operators themselves. During the months when the hospitality shops were closed, it became clear that one of the consequences of this was also the loss of access to toilets. We heard from municipalities that there was an increase in game peeing. It is a pity that SNCB will not open up its toilets to the maximum. Last year, SNCB announced its toilet plan. The toilets would become family friendly and would be accessible 24 hours a day and 7 days a day. In the meantime, what is visible on the ground? Your predecessor, Minister Bellot, announced a year ago that a service was chosen on the basis of a concession contract through a European market consultation. It was due to be completed in the spring of 2021. What is the status of SNCB with the implementation of its toilet plan? What is the implication of the service through a concession? Will more toilets be paid in stations than is the case today? If we can no longer count on the catering industry, as in the past few months, would it not be a good idea for SNCB to open up its toilets to the maximum?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u19	Mrs Buyst, you're lucky, you've only had to wait a few weeks. On 18 November, I asked in writing for a state of affairs concerning the toilet plan. I made a comment on this during the previous sitting. In the meantime, a catch-up has been made. I have not yet received an answer to all but a lot of questions. I had converted some of the questions into oral questions, and I also received an answer to them. I therefore suspect that I have already received the answer you will give me shortly. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you two more questions about the concession agreements that you want to conclude. Will one choose a model of fully automated systems or will there really be another sanitary worker present or will it be a combination of the two? My second question concerns pricing. If people in the station have to catch their train and do not have the opportunity or time to go to another bathroom, then we must ensure that there is no abuse of it not to pay. There is no need to set a price, but there has to be a little control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that access to well-maintained and cleaned sanitary facilities is more important than ever in a health crisis. SNCB informs me that part of the plumbing is currently being carried out in the form of a concession contract. Other sanitary facilities are accessible via coin locks. For a limited part of the locations, the traveller must ask the ticket operator for the key. In the context of uniformity, better accessibility and higher quality, the use of the sanitary facilities for all the stations included in the toilet plan will be paying, which largely corresponds to the stations where the sanitary facilities are already paying. The operation or management of the sanitary facilities at the stations forming part of the toilet plan will be carried out on the basis of a concession contract. This requires the launch of a European market consultation. In view of the size of the project, SNCB expects to be able to conclude the negotiations and the contract with the candidate concessionary in the third quarter of 2021. Afterwards, a phased roll-out starts over a period of two to three years, spread across the country. Currently, the toilets of 68 stations are accessible after office hours. In the toilet plan this number will be increased sensitively, with the plumbing accessible around the clock. In the new toilet plan a care room will be offered in about 20 stations. In other toilet modules, foldable diaper tables are intended. The toilet plan provides for 115 stations throughout the country to be equipped with gender-neutral toilet modules and accessible and adapted for people with disabilities. An investment budget of EUR 22 million is foreseen for the toilet plan. SNCB will provide classic sanitary facilities in 20 stations with human reception and very spacious opening hours. The classic plumbing has a separation between men and women. Outside the opening hours of the classic sanitary facilities, toilet modules will always be available in these stations. In 95 other stations toilet modules will be placed that will be available around the clock if these modules are accessible from outside. SNCB has the ambition to contribute to an inclusive society. This means that each sanitary module is gender neutral and is suitable for people with reduced mobility as well as for families. Equipped with toilet modules is intended to allow as many people as possible - train passengers and others - to use the sanitary facilities throughout the day. In the meantime, customers are not left to their own devices. The toilets are also kept open to the maximum. Since the beginning of the sanitary crisis, SNCB has always ensured maximum access to toilets in the stations. It always complies with the sanitary measures, provides adequate means for protection, and all sanitary installations and surfaces touched by many people are rigorously and additionally cleaned. Stations must be rendezvous points. The stations of the future are accessible and welcoming meeting places where every train traveller feels welcome. Welcome sanitary facilities are an integral part of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I have heard some very interesting things. The station of the future must be welcoming and inclusive services are a priority for SNCB. We must indeed have the courage to do so. It will be important to include some of these issues in the service contract that will be drawn up. However, I am afraid when I hear that at the moment only 68 stations have access to plumbing. Over the next two to three years, the very extensive toilet plan that you have explained will be rolled out, but it will take some time. Mr. Secretary, you say that the toilets were left open to the maximum. I haven't done all the stations all over Belgium in the last few months, of course, but in the stations I have visited, mostly in the outside area, that was disappointing. There are good prospects and good plans, but it will be important to include this in the service contract so that people know where they stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I'm still a little hungry about how this will be practically organized. I understand that it is difficult for you right now to say what is planned at which station. My question stems from what I experience in the station of my city, Hasselt. Recently, I found that there were some problems. A specific question is to be asked. I particularly hope that in terms of accessibility the necessary guarantees will be included in the management contract and that attention will be paid to them in the concession contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the VRT reported in March on a British study that shows that the use of touch screens in cars has a major impact on the concentration of drivers. That may be an open door kicking in, because we are all convinced that the temptation is great to use those touch screens in the car. In recent years, they have experienced a great evolution, including with big players like Apple and Android who have been working out products for this purpose, so that your mobile phone apps are also on that screen. The study says that driving under the influence of alcohol results in 12% slower reaction capacity. Calling with the phone in your hand results in 45% slower response power, the touch screens themselves control 57% slower response power. So far, Europe has been very careful with regulation in this area. The last European recommendation on this date back to 2008, when there were no touch screens in the car. In Europe, for example, there is not yet a so-called driver-workload test required. That is a test that measures to what extent the screens demand the attention of the driver. This test is already mandatory in Japan and the USA. How do you respond to the findings of this investigation? What efforts will you make to ensure that the European Union draws up the necessary directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, touch screens are mainly presented as comfort improvements, but I am not sure that they add value in terms of road safety. In fact, I am not surprised at the results of this study. Touch screens require visual control in the sense of touch. There are alternatives, such as control with the voice or control via buttons on the steering wheel, which are safer than the touch screen. The technical requirements of vehicles shall be laid down at European level. The problem must therefore be discussed at this level. I will ask my administration, the FPS Mobility, to monitor and address this issue as soon as circumstances permit and as soon as this issue is addressed in the European Assembly where we are represented by members of the FPS Mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u25	Minister, I fully agree that the car sector is constantly evolving under the guise of comfort, but in my view it does not always become safer. Cars get bigger and heavier, and also dashboards become half smartphones. I think that's bad news for the driver's concentration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u26	It is important and good that you instruct the FOD to play a proactive and pulling role in those discussions. I will continue to follow them, together with you, to see whether we can give clear guidelines in Europe and how we can improve a number of things in our own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u27	Mr Vandenbroucke, Minister, if everything goes according to plan, the entire Limburg railway network will finally be electrified by 2023. On railway line 19 from Mol to Hamont the electrification works are almost complete. On railway 15 from Hasselt to Mol the works normally start at the beginning of 2022. By the end of 2022, the first electric trains could run there. In order to electrify this railway line, four bridges on the route must be increased. There are three bridges in Beringen and one in Heusden-Zolder. A dispute arose between the municipality of Heusden-Zolder and the railway network manager Infrabel about the costs of increasing the bridge in Zolder. That is why I have a number of questions. First, Infrabel claims that the municipality should bear the costs of increasing the bridge. Is the network manager right about that? Secondly, what are the estimated costs for the increase? Thirdly, has Infrabel had any contact with the municipality about this? Is there any additional consultation planned? Fourthly, what is the impact of the dispute on the timing of electrification works? Finally, what is the procedure if a municipality refuses to bear the costs? Has Infrabel been confronted with such a problem in the past? If so, what solution was found then?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u28	Mr President, Mr Raskin, I give you the answer I received from Infrabel. Infrabel relies on a ministerial decision for the bridge Routes. At the time, the building of the bridge by the railways was authorised by the Nv Charbonnage in Helchteren and Zolder. The property was subsequently transferred to the municipality. The municipality's view is that this authorisation was not made contrary to third parties and therefore the authorisation no longer applies to the municipality as a new owner. The bridge is now used as a recreational bicycle bridge. Infrabel believes that it has always been a precarious occupation and that it is automatically transferred to the new owner. Infrabel informs me that he has sought the most cost-effective solution. It consists of raising the bridge. This is the cheapest solution to increase the underpass, which is necessary for electrification of line 15. There have been several consultations with the municipality in the past, including in September 2019, April 2020 and February this year. At the last consultation it was agreed that the municipality of Heusen-Zolder would transmit its legal position in this file. Further consultations are still to be scheduled. There is currently no impact on the electrification works. The bridge shall be adjusted only against the electrical entry into service in 2023. Infrabel has already taken the initiative to submit an environmental application, with the cheapest solution for all parties, namely the increase in the bridge. Infrabel hopes that a constructive solution will be found and I share that hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u29	Minister, I have the impression that what you are saying is true. It is an annoying situation because I understand that the people in Heusden-Zolder didn't realize that bridge had become their property. So they were surprised by the additional costs. However, I understand that there have already been contacts and that there will be further contacts. The municipality has also been given time to determine its legal position. She confirms that an effective counsel has also been appointed. I hope that the best possible solution will be found, because the timing of the work must not be compromised. I am therefore pleased that Infrabel has pro-actively applied for an environmental permit. After all, we must try to achieve the timing for electrification at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u30	Minister, it is not the first time you have had questions about the Hasselt-Maastricht railway line. SNCB is not in favour of reopening that railway line and cites two reasons for doing so. Firstly, there is no infrastructure that could be used in the short or medium term and there is little chance that it will be built in the coming years. Secondly, there is the Spartacus rapid tram project, which could be an alternative to the region. The Action Committee More Train in Limburg is not satisfied with the refusal of SNCB. The importance of cross-border train traffic cannot be underestimated and a smooth connection between the capitals of the two provinces of Limburg is today mortgaged by the Spartacus plan. The Action Committee therefore wants to look for other solutions. For example, a private partner, such as Arriva, already operating regional lines in the Netherlands, is envisaged. What are your views on the Action Committee's proposal? Can you agree with the idea that certain railway lines with a predominantly regional interest are operated by a private railway company? Or is the exploitation by a private partner excluded, even though there is a risk that there will be no public transport at all?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u31	Mr Raskin, we in the Committee on Mobility have had the opportunity to discuss the old Hasselt-Maastricht link with various colleagues on a number of occasions. You referred to the SNCB opinion on the possible operation of the line and asked if a private partner could offer a solution. I believe that the answer is already contained in your question. Firstly, there is no longer any railway infrastructure on part of the route. Secondly, line 1 of the Spartacus project of the Flemish transport company De Lijn is planned there. As you could read in the opinion delivered by Infrabel to the Committee, then Flemish Minister of Mobility Ben Weyts repeatedly urged the decommissioning of railway line 20 between Lanaken and the border to transform the railway line into a fast-track railroad in the period 2017-2019. That question, as well as the finding that the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State commissioned ProRail in February 2019 to initiate the process to remove the Lanaken-Maastricht route from the eastern rail infrastructure, gave rise to Infrabel's decision of May 2020 to exclude that part from operation. From the Flemish coalition agreement, as well as from public announcements by De Lijn, I understand that a commissioning of the Spartacus line Hasselt-Maastricht is planned in 2024. This follows the two conclusions of SNCB concerning the possibility of rail transport on the historic section Hasselt-Maastricht. Firstly, a large part of the railway infrastructure still available is currently destined to be used for the planned Flemish rapid tram, which makes the use of that infrastructure for rail traffic very unlikely at the moment. Secondly, the planned speed tram is announced by De Lijn for 2024, which is much faster than any rail link can be established. As has already been said, I will of course continue to be interested in the development of the project because of the importance for the intermodal opening of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The history of events and actions related to railway line 20, both on the Belgian side and on the Dutch side, is well known to me and many colleagues. With my question, I was mainly referring to a new approach, namely whether you could agree that a section of the railway line will be operated by a private partner when it comes to a regional link. On occasion, I will put that question to you again, separated from the specific dossier. Your explanation of the Spartacus project is entirely correct. However, you are obviously not aware of this, at least you have not spoken of the fact that the Flemish Minister for Mobility, Lydia Peeters, has made a turn very recently. Of the Spartacus project, which is always screened to make the story impossible, perhaps we will get rid of it, as Minister Peeters says today that the connection is important, but not how it is realized. Let's see what the Spartacus project is going to be. I always said I'd never bet money on it. I'll come back later on to the princiep question about a private operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u33	Mr President, Mr Raskin, the general exemption regime for priority vehicles in the context of an urgent mission was indeed introduced by law of 16 July 2020. As far as I know, it was intended to include only a limited exception regime in the road code. In the meantime, the Minister of Finance asked for customs services to be brought under the exception regime. Since good arguments have been put forward for this, I have asked my administration, the FPS Mobility, to prepare a change to the traffic regulations to that effect. This draft will soon be submitted to the regions for their opinion. There are currently no plans for enlargement to other categories. Secondly, the coherence between the new Article 37.5 introduced by the Law of 16 July 2020 and Articles 59.8 to 59.18, which also provide for all kinds of exceptions, is not ideal. A solution could be to better structure all exceptions and, for example, to bring them together in Article 37, which concerns priority vehicles. However, a number of exceptions fall within the competence of the regions, such as those of the administration responsible for monitoring, monitoring and maintenance of the road network and vehicles of road cleaning services. The same applies to the inspectors of De Lijn, to which you refer in your question. This exercise can only succeed if it is done in close consultation with the regions. This will certainly be addressed in the context of future discussions with the regions on changes to the traffic rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u34	Of course, Minister, I am always open to optimising legislation, if necessary. Of course, I am always in favour of close consultation with the regions. The key question is, of course, how many groups will we allow exceptions. After all, we must ensure that it remains an exception. There is therefore a need for caution. However, I hear that you and your cabinet are consulting with the regions. I am therefore confident that we will continue to work on the dossier in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u35	Mr Segers, like you, I was concerned about Mr Yve Driesen's statements after Operation Sky. If the facts described are true, this is very serious. Access to the data of the Crossroads Bank of the vehicles (KBV) is governed by the Act of 19 May 20210 establishing the Crossroads Bank of the vehicles and the Royal Decree of 8 July 2013 implementing the said Act. It sets out a number of objectives for which data exchange from the Crossroads Bank of vehicles with external organisations is possible. The Act provides that the KBV contains, inter alia, the data of the holders of the registration plates, including their national registration number, name, first names and address. On the basis of the European General Data Protection Regulation, the well-known GDPR, and the purposes set out in the law, access to one or more of the KBV's data is granted to certain public administrations and organisations. On the basis of the objectives, the decision shall be made on a case-by-case basis on which data are shared, which shall be laid down in a protocol between the FPS Mobility and the organisation concerned, as provided for in Article 20 of the Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. This protocol is published in principle on both the website of the FPS Mobility and on the website of the organisation concerned. The protocols provide for both parties to work together to secure the data. In accordance with Articles 32 to 34 of the GDPR, controllers and, where appropriate, intermediate processors are obliged to protect personal data. They should also undertake to take the necessary technical and organisational security measures for the protection of the data communicated. The Protocols also provide for the possibility of carrying out audits and sampling. In addition, the FPS Mobility requests access to data from the KBV in an organisation's application, including technical and organisational information such as security plans and the keeping of a register of persons who will have access. Technically, all connected partners connect to the Mobility Service Bus, the MSB. All requests that pass through this path are logged into this system. The FPS Mobility therefore has a track of all the retrievals carried out in this context. In the framework of the GDPR, it is possible to examine and track which partner has made the request. The logging takes place at the level of the organization that made the call, for example the federal police, up to the level of the individual employee who carried out the call. The responsibility for the logging of the data consultation for the individual employees of an external organisation with which the FPS Mobility has concluded a protocol is laid with this external organisation. It should also take the necessary organisational and technical security measures as a controller itself. The FPS Mobility is currently working on a new IT application for the exchange of data with organisations. In this context, all existing protocols are evaluated and the exchange of information with the organisation is adapted accordingly. The new data exchange application will be a much more accessible system to consult and analyse the login data.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer I will read again. It is clear that you take the problem very seriously, and I wish you every success in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u37	Minister, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u38	Ms Verhaert, electronic manifests were issued in the framework of the Benelux pilot project 416.046 in 2020. In 2019 there were only 118.285. So we can say that the technology of eCMRs is being used by more and more companies. The main achievement of the Benelux eCMR pilot project is that the reliability and accuracy of the eCMR can be verified by checking and comparing the content of the document at different times and places, the so-called pro-check. This is possible by working with authorized software providers, which give the government direct access to their eCMR dataware. The content of the eCMR must be agreed during each check. If not, there is evidence that there is a technical problem or fraud. This direct access to the database is currently unique for every software provider and is therefore not sufficiently streamlined. The construction of an access point should fix this. Then I come to your second question. A functional analysis was carried out by the Benelux working group. On this basis, a technical preliminary study is currently under way. This preliminary study is about the technical architecture and implementation of the access point. It should make clear to the working group what the possible IT solutions are, what the expected budget for these solutions is and what time period they can be realised. It is indeed being examined whether a so-called minimum viable product can be built in 2021 or 2022, a version of the access point that meets all functional requirements as simple and inexpensive as possible. To your third and final question I can answer that there are very many similarities in substance between what the eFTI regulation imposes on road transport and what is happening within the eCMR-Benelux pilot project. eFTI is therefore partly inspired by the Benelux project. With the construction of the eCMR access point, the Benelux countries are also intended to be ready for the application of the eFTI Regulation. In this sense, the current eCMR access point study is therefore very relevant for the implementation of the Regulation 2020/1056. As you know, I attach importance to this project, which I have included in my policy statement, because it will reduce the administrative burden and therefore administrative costs for transport companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. It was to be expected that these figures would rise rapidly, given the benefits. There are a lot of rules and administration to be taken into account. This is a real simplification and a step forward in this sector. I hope that steps will follow soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, as a result of the national strike action announced by several trade unions, rail traffic was disrupted from Sunday evening to Monday evening. In order to reduce the inconvenience for passengers, SNCB has developed an alternative train service based on staff who have indicated that they will not participate in the strike. The guaranteed train service ensures that more than half of the trains would have to run. Two on the three ICU trains were scheduled. Those are the trains between the big cities. This also applied to two on the three suburban S-trains and two on the three L-trains. Most P trains, on the other hand, were abolished. Those are the trains that only run during the morning and evening pits. A number of smaller stations had little to no trains. SNCB advised its travellers to regularly consult the route planner from the day before departure via the SNCB website or app. The route planner shall take into account the alternative timetable. The alternative train service is also communicated through the various information channels of SNCB such as the social media channels, Twitter and Facebook, the SNCB website and the screens and announcements at the stations. Every effort has been made to provide travellers with detailed information in real time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The question was somewhat dated, but I do hear that there have been few problems in times of corona and that the system of guaranteed service has once again proved its worth and the traveller has yet to reach his destination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u42	Minister, in November, the federal government reached an agreement on the Boost Plan, which is planning additional investment in rail for EUR 100 million by 2021. I have some very specific questions about the situation in West Flanders. I should like to refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u43	Mrs Reynaert, the definition of full accessibility includes access to platforms and increased platforms, blind lines and accessible ticket machines. According to the information I have at my disposal, the Oostkamp station has already been made fully accessible in the last year. Beernem station will be made fully accessible this year, using resources from outside the Boost Plan. Blankenberge station is scheduled for 2023. SNCB's resources for this do not come from the Boost Plan, that of Infrabel comes partly from the Boost Plan. That station is about the renewal of the platforms, the floors and the equipment on the platforms. After the works, the platforms will be equipped with blind guide lines which will allow the station to be accessible autonomously. SNCB will invest 2.5 million euros in the project in the following years. The following stations will also be accessible autonomously in 2021: Aalter, Barvaux, Dinant, Fexhe-le-Haut-Clocher, Marche-en-Famenne, Maria-Aalter, Rixensart, Tielt and Zwijndrecht. There are no other West Flemish stations included in the Boost Plan. For the planned and already funded works on integrated accessibility stations, please refer to slide 26 of the SNCB presentation delivered to the committee on 24 February. It also indicates the source of funding. Among other things, you will find the stations whose funding comes wholly or partly from the Boost Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u44	Minister, we are very pleased with the additional investment in rail and certainly also with the improvement of full accessibility in Beernem. I was at that station this morning, which wasn't originally planned. The people with disabilities in our municipality and the surrounding municipalities have indicated that this will certainly be a great step forward for them, for which thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u45	Mr President, Mr Toventors, your question has now been answered in writing. I apologize for the delay. Mrs Goethals, I apologize for the delay in answering your written question. Your question is very broad and requires my cabinet to collect information from a large number of public institutions. The answer is now being finalised. It will be sent to you as soon as possible. I would like to inform you that respecting language legislation is embedded in the various procedures and practices within the FPS Mobility. Although the Belgian railways do not have valid language frameworks, neither Infrabel nor SNCB, language relations are being monitored. Since language balance is monitored, the validity of decisions such as recruitment by HR Rail is not contested. As far as skeyes are concerned, I will find a solution in accordance with the recent decision of the Council of State, in dialogue with the board of directors of skeyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to the answers so as to be able to ask any subsequent oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have tabled a question on the language frameworks for almost all public companies. As far as SNCB is concerned, you say that language relations will be monitored. That is why I kept my question. In another written question, I specifically asked about staff relations within SNCB. It turns out the guarding isn't taken too close. We are about 60% Flemings in this country, but within SNCB, the Flemings account for little more than 53% of the relationship. Moreover, there is no legal framework, although this is clearly imposed by the coordinated laws on the use of languages in administrative matters. Another element is the eager use of a back door by recruiting contractual agents. That is why we note that, within the quota, the number of contracts within SNCB is as high as 52% in French. The number of Flemings is there below the limit of half. It is even more worrying that this policy continues. When I ask about the recruitments in 2020, I see that the contractual partners again account for 52% of those recruited in French. The answer to the question of linguistic balance is absolutely wrong for SNCB. I will follow this up further through new questions and the necessary initiatives. As a minister, I hope that you will be able to break the trend of your predecessors and pay sufficient attention to them so that this situation can be overcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u48	Mr President, this is again a written question to which I had not yet received an answer. I'd like to refer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u49	I signed the answer to the written question this morning, but it is not a problem to read the answer. Government commissioners were appointed to skeyes, SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. For SNCB and Infrabel, alternates were also appointed. The nomination decisions were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 3 December 2020. The powers of the government commissioner at skeyes derive from Article 23 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. The powers of the Government Commissioner and his substitute for SNCB derive from Article 162nions of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic enterprises. The powers of the Government Commissioner and his deputy at Infrabel derive from Article 213 of the Law of 21 March 1991. The powers of the Government Commissioner at HR Rail derive from Article 54 of the Law of 23 July 1926 on SNCB and the staff of the Belgian railways. The directors of government shall be paid in accordance with the legal provisions contained in these texts. To the question of how many decisions the Commissioner or the Member has suspended since the beginning of the government period, the answer is zero so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u50	Thank you, Minister. I apologize for not seeing the answer yet. Thank you very much for answering this question orally. I'll analyze it more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u51	Mrs Goethals, the answer to this written question is not yet complete. It is very difficult to obtain all the information, but I will give you an answer as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u53	This is also an unanswered written question from the beginning of December. I'd rather not put them orally, because I'd like to get some figures anyway. After five months of waiting, I took the question orally. For SNCB's new headquarters at the Brussels-South station, the existing buildings will be renovated and expanded and by the end of 2024 they will result in a complex with an area of 75,000 m2. It is built by a consortium of Besix, CFE and Immobel. What's the cost? What's budgeted? What payment arrangements have been contractually agreed with the builder? In return, this builder receives SNCB sites on the Brussels-Zuid site, which one wants to revive. How many areas is that about? What area are we talking about? What's its spatial status? What's the official estimate value? The builder could build up to 2,000 houses on those grounds. Have provisions been agreed on the type of housing? If so, which one? If not, why not? Was a mandatory percentage imposed on the number of social housing to be built?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u54	Mr Toventers, the task of building a new headquarters for SNCB is being considered as a project of Design, Build, Maintain. That would make it possible to delegate it to a consortium. The contract hasn't been concluded yet. It will only be closed after the preferred provider has obtained the urban planning and environmental permit. The tendering procedure is still ongoing. SNCB therefore does not wish to disclose the amount of the tender, in accordance with public procurement law. The disclosure of such information may harm the legitimate commercial interests of the undertakings concerned and their competitive position on the market. In relation to the payment conditions, in the event of an effective award of the tender, SNCB would pay the difference between the price for the execution of the project to Fonsnylaan and the selling price of the land. As regards any buildings to be sold, SNCB would act as a seller. So she would have no control over the future construction or occupation of the buildings. These points would fall under the responsibility of the municipalities of Anderlecht and St Gillis and of the Brussels-Capital Region. They lay down the urban rules to be applied to new buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u55	Mr Minister, I will of course continue to follow up on the dossier and I am very curious about the figures. After all, it is a huge project, an almost megalomaniac prestige project, which is being razed out of the ground under the pretext that the Brussels-South site is being revived. There will be 4,000 employees of the SNCB administration there. I wonder if that's 4,000 executive positions. I can hardly imagine. Brussels is being flooded with billions of euros and we know where that money comes from mostly to give mobility in and around the city almost a luxury execution. An example of this is the new metro through the center to replace the pre-metro on the north-south axis. This could already contribute to the revival of the Brussels-South neighbourhood. Why not opt for decentralisation with four or five regional centres in, for example, Hasselt, Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Bergen. In this way, 800 or 900 employees can be employed in these centres and all regions benefit from them. It would also be a good thing for mobility, commuting and congestion to Brussels. I therefore recommend that these alternatives be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u56	Mr Toventos, I apologise, but I still have no answer to both your questions today. I'm waiting for information from SNCB. Unfortunately, the cabinet cannot answer all questions without information from the services. I will send you these answers in writing as soon as I have received them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u57	Mr President, Minister, these are written questions which were converted into oral questions. I trust it will be done in the near future. I'll follow it further and look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u58	Mr Minister, I am not a permanent member of the Committee on Mobility, but I would like to take the floor for the connection between Hamont and Weert, because that connection is very important to us Limburgers. When you were my colleague, Minister, we talked about this. As a Limburger I want to make a habit of regularly asking about the state of affairs in the dossier. There is, moreover, a motion for a resolution on the agenda to draw particular attention to this. It is not just the Limburgers who are waiting for this. The Kempenaars, including Mr Van den Bergh, would also benefit from progress in the dossier. I have read in the reports of the committee and my colleague, Mrs Buyst, is following the issue very closely with regard to the fact that you are going to consult with our Dutch colleagues. A steering committee was set up with the Dutch. Has it come together yet? Or when will that happen? What about the file? When can a breakthrough be expected? After all, Mr Minister, we are a little bit on hot coal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u59	Mr Minister, the dossier has been discussed a great many times, and now there is also a motion for a resolution on this matter in our committee. In the meantime, a potential study has been carried out which has produced a negative result for SNCB. A negative business case is called that. Well, I am concerned that we have not yet seen that report, which we have been asking for orally and in writing since the beginning of February. We do have the summary, the presentation by SNCB. I would like to receive the report from the Stratex office itself. I am particularly interested in the content, not the conclusions drawn by SNCB. Why is only SNCB's summary delivered to us? When and how can I finally receive the Stratex report myself?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u60	Mr Toventers, my policy cell immediately delivered the potential study and business case of 26 slides to the committee. It is the documents as they were presented to the decision-making bodies of SNCB. SNCB does not wish to publicly share the underlying detailed study for reasons of principle and confidentiality. Mrs Creemers, as I stated in committee on 10 February, I instructed my administration shortly after the delivery of the SNCB-businesscase to convene the Belgian-Dutch Steering Committee on cross-border connections. After consultation, both administrations opted together to set up a technical working group for the Hamant-Weert dossier. A first meeting of the Technical Working Group took place on 26 March 2021. This meeting mainly served as an introduction between the various stakeholders in Belgium and the Netherlands. An inventory of the available documentation was also made. It was agreed that points should be clarified at the second meeting, which had proved unclear at first reading. Additional information would also be exchanged at that meeting. The second technical working group meeting took place on 3 May. The result of the technical working group will now be discussed at the meeting of the Belgian-Dutch Steering Committee on cross-border connections scheduled for my request. It would be organized before the summer recess. In addition, in the Netherlands there is also an administrative coordination between the various parties involved, the Ministry, the Province, municipalities, ProRail. It is also intended to use the results of such consultations as input for the Steering Committee. I also had a meeting with the Dutch Secretary of State for Mobility two weeks ago. That was a very pleasant contact. We await the coalition agreement in the Netherlands to continue with the dossier. I hope it won't take as long as it does in Belgium. In any case, we are ready to have a political discussion with the Dutch Government. The investments must come from the Netherlands, because we have already done our part of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u61	Minister, in our motion for a resolution, on which we have yet to vote, we ask you to enter into intensive consultations with the Dutch colleagues. I naturally welcome your plea for many cross-border train connections. Here we have a connection that is within reach, while at the same time much remains to be done on the other side of the border. There have already been two meetings of the technical working group, which then links back to the steering group. It is now, of course, waiting for a good coalition agreement on the Dutch side. Hopefully you will have a colleague there very quickly, so that we can force a breakthrough in the dossier before the end of the legislature. Thank you for the update. We will ask you about this regularly, because we certainly do not want the issue to be watered down. The momentum is here now. Despite the negative business case, I remain convinced that we need to establish the cross-border train connection in close consultation with Dutch colleagues. We believe in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u62	Minister, I am not at all satisfied with your answer that SNCB does not want to release the report for reasons of principle. That report is essential. I am very pleased that you have been with your Dutch colleague. Updates, good news shows and consultations we've known for years I'm looking at that pragmatically, but what's very essential is that the connection in the Netherlands is re-entered into the coalition agreement and that the necessary resources are provided. Is that what you've been talking about? I understand that no guarantees can be given on this, because that is, of course, part of the negotiation process in the Netherlands, but it certainly needs very heavy lobbying. That is very important, so I hope you have done the necessary during your conversation. I'll come back to the report. The report we received from SNCB contains four possible scenarios on technical implementation. The most obvious technical scenario, according to a number of people who have a view of it on the Dutch side, is not even included, hence my suspicion of the document we received from SNCB. A document with a negative business case cannot help the negotiation process in the Netherlands as to whether the Hamont connection will be incorporated back into the coalition agreement. I therefore hope that we will be able to receive the Stratec report, so that we can look into it ourselves, and that everything is put on track to put pressure on the Netherlands. I understand that a party member of your group, Mr Calvo, is active in the Netherlands. Enable everything and everyone to register the realization of the relevant cross-border train connection in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u63	Mr President, Minister, on 25 March a hearing was held in the Flemish Parliament on a proposal for a decree of the Vooruit en Groen parties to reduce the overall speed limit in the built-up area in the Flemish region to 30 kilometres per hour, a measure which is well known to you. The Brussels Region was a way forward for this, but the city of Ghent also implemented this measure in its inner city and this has led to positive effects. During that hearing it appeared that there is a need for additional insights on the possible effects of the reduced speed limit on all kinds of parameters. The invited representative of the Vias Institute indicated that he would be a party asking for such a study to be carried out, precisely because the relevance of that measure extends beyond the Flemish Region. In Wallonia, too, some cities and municipalities are considering a reduction in speed. However, the grant agreement between the Belgian State and Vias does not allow the Flemish Minister of Mobility to award this contract to Vias. Mr Minister, are you prepared to instruct Vias to carry out a study on the possible effects of reducing the overall speed limit in the built-up area to 30 kilometres per hour? If so, at what time will you issue the order? By what date can this study be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u64	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, it is true that the federal government is drawing up an annual grant agreement in which a choice is made in the study assignments to be carried out by Vias within several research themes. This will always take into account the investigations carried out or continued in the past, as well as current problems of road safety or government priorities, such as recidivism and distraction. My administration has therefore examined with interest the project proposal on the overall reduction of speed limits within the built-up area to 30 km per hour, with the Stockholm Declaration, in which the idea was advocated. For the time being, however, it was not chosen to carry out the study within the federal envelope, since the power to reduce the speed limit in the urban area is entirely regional. The duration of the study was estimated at one and a half years. It cannot be excluded that the study can be included in the research agenda that Vias also has with the Flemish government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u65	Mr President, Minister, of course reducing the speed of development is a regional competence. However, I understand that the Flemish Minister has said that the federal level is competent to commission that study. You are now saying that a research agenda is also agreed between Vias and the regional governments, including the Flemish Government, and that it could be included in it. It's getting a little complicated for me. I shall go back and see how we can ensure that this study is carried out. After all, I think that you and I agree that additional insights on this can be absolutely useful, not only in Flanders but also in the other regions. It is already being applied in the Brussels region. Speed is one of the great killers in our traffic. Half of the major accidents occur in the built-up area. We also know that the risk of a fatal accident in the event of a collision between a soft road user and a car at 30 kilometres per hour is many times lower than at 50 kilometres per hour. So it's definitely still being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u66	Mr President, Mr Troast, in reply to your question, SNCB informs me that the works at Hasselt station started at the end of 2018. For the comfort of passengers, the platforms are increased so that passengers can easily get on and off. The platforms are equipped with guide lines for the blind and visually impaired. The platform canopies are being renovated. New shelters, seating furniture, announcement screens and lighting are placed on the platforms. In order to improve accessibility, the underpass is renewed. The ceiling, the floor and the walls in the underpass are refreshed. New escalators and lifts are placed on each platform, so that less mobile passengers with heavy luggage can easily reach any platform. The realisation of the project takes place in different phases. As my predecessor mentioned in this committee more than a year ago, the end of the project is foreseen at the end of 2024. The total investment for SNCB is estimated at EUR 17 million. You had questions about my vision of the toilets in Hasselt station. For that, I refer to the more general view that I gave in reply to your earlier question during the committee today, the second question from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u67	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am glad to hear that they are on schedule for the Hasselt station. I can indeed confirm that one of the platforms has already been completed and that it is a huge advance and a real relief to the former situation of that same platform. There's been a switch for the toilets. Back in the day, a lady was in charge of the toilets. Now there's a coin lock. People have to put a coin in the lock of the door so they can open it. I note that this change poses problems, first of all for accessibility. People in wheelchairs have problems opening the door, while there used to be a sanitary officer who kept the door open. They can now call on other travellers, but if there are none, there is a problem. In addition, there is a second problem. Some people and even groups of people put a coin in the lock, keep the door open and stick something in between. They hang out in the toilets. I've identified the problem myself. I went to see when a female train driver went to the bathroom and filed a complaint, because the toilets were incredibly dirty. So I have serious doubts as to whether the coin lock is a good solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u68	In response to your similar questions of 28 November 2019 and 28 July 2020, Mr Troasts, my predecessor, Mr Bellot, has indeed listed a number of suggestions that can help to prevent blind spot accidents. These answers made it clear that measures are particularly important in the area of infrastructure. I repeat that this is not the competence of the federal government, which has no means of managing it. Continuing awareness is also important in this regard. However, this is not a matter for the federal government either. My predecessor has already mentioned it, questions about measures to prevent blind-angle accidents can be better put to the competent regional ministers. I repeat that the traffic regulations provide for a number of possibilities which could reduce the risk of blind spot accidents. I am thinking, for example, of the so-called square green traffic light, bike racks at intersections, traffic signs or traffic lights that allow cyclists to turn right at red, and traffic signs that indicate the possible presence of cyclists at the right. In other words, a catalogue is offered to road managers from which they can choose the most appropriate measure, taking into account local circumstances. There is therefore no need for a new Road Code to take measures that can contribute to a reduction in the number of blind spot accidents. Furthermore, the vehicle technology that can prevent blind-angle accidents is increasingly being developed. In an ideal world, it will reach a point where this type of accident becomes, as it were, impossible. For the new Road Code, we are looking at how best to lay the power puzzle. However, this should no longer constitute a brake on urgent adjustments to the traffic rules. Therefore, my administration of the FPS Mobility has prepared two draft royal decree amending the traffic regulations, which includes a number of issues, which are also regulated in the Road Code Review project. Integrating the step-by-step into the current Road Code of things planned for the project's new Road Code might be an option. By the way, quite a few changes to the traffic regulations introduced by law in recent years, including through parliamentary initiatives, take over elements from the draft new Road Code or are strongly based on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u70	Minister, Pepinster and Theux suffer from heavy truck traffic via the N666. In order to stop this transit in an area which is not allowed by the trucks, the city of Pepinster has decided to install a radar section between Ensival and Banneux (Sprimont). Unfortunately, this system is not yet bearing fruit, as no minutes have been drawn up. Indeed, in order for this radar to flash and thus verbalize at the end of the prevention period, it is necessary that a royal decree be amended. Currently, it does not provide for a sanction to be issued without the presence of a police officer in the case of the transit of trucks. Minister, are you aware of this situation? If so, when will this royal decree be amended?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u71	Mrs Song, I am well aware of this problem and of the difficulties on the radar-trunk between Ensival and Banneux, but which can of course exist in other parts of our beautiful country. Since radars operate automatically in the absence of a qualified agent, the offence controlled by these aircraft must be included in the list included in the Royal Decree of 18 December 2002 determining the offences whose finding based on physical evidence provided by automatic aircraft operating in the absence of a qualified agent is authentic until proven otherwise. I have instructed my services to prepare the legal basis, for example through an amendment to a bill that is on your committee's agenda. This amendment would also contain the necessary adaptations to operate the turntable radars everywhere, and thus also between Ensival and Banneux. Since this is a particularly complex subject and requires consultation with multiple partners, my services need a little time to prepare this amendment. My ambition is that it will be ready when the text returns to the agenda of your committee, before the summer parliamentary holidays, in order to incorporate it into the text under consideration and to ensure that this problem will be resolved this year. It would be a good collaboration between Parliament and the executive. We will be following closely the progress of work in your committee with the services, which I welcome, and with the President. Mrs Chanson, I hope that we will be able to bring about concrete solutions in the field of road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u72	Minister, the message is of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u73	I would simply like to thank the minister for this information. I will therefore be careful when the matter comes to the agenda of the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u74	Minister, on 18 December 2020, the Consultation Committee instructed the Brussels-Capital Region to develop a consultative structure within which the discussion on the Brussels-Capital Smart Move can take place. As long as the consultations are ongoing and at least until 31 March 2021, the Brussels Government would not take any new decisions on the subject. The working groups within the Consultation Committee would have drawn up their reports in the meantime. They would now be discussed at the Consultative Committee. Minister, can you confirm that the working groups have completed the preparatory work? Can you give me the reports of these working groups? The Consultation Committee would examine the reports of the working groups by the end of March 2021. Is this what happened? If so, what is the conclusion of the Consultation Committee? Can you agree to this? If not, when will the matter be dealt with in the Consultation Committee? The government of the Brussels-Capital Region maintains a tight timing. They want the Brussels Parliament to vote on the plan this year. In 2022, Smart Move would enter into force definitively. Can you estimate whether this timing will be met on the basis of the work already done?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u75	Mr Raskin, an inter-federal consultation mechanism is being set up within the Consultation Committee through a central working group with thematic subgroups. There are four different thematic sub-groups: Taxation, Environment, Employment and Mobility. The project Smart Move of the Brussels-Capital Region is discussed in the sub-group Mobility. The four thematic sub-groups have completed their preparatory work. The report of the specific mobility working group will be published only after the validation of the report of the central working group. The meeting of the Central Working Group took place on Monday 19 April. The final report is currently being validated. The SmartMove issue will be discussed at a subsequent Consultation Committee. The date hasn't been set yet. According to the information I have at my disposal, the timetable set by the Brussels-Capital Region Government must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which does not teach me much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u77	Mr President, Minister, I shall confine myself to the financial situation of skeyes. I had already asked a question about this, but it is now obsolete and therefore replaced by my second question. In the media, we have heard that a new loan of EUR 110 million would have been committed to the air traffic controller, after it had already received a reasonable sum of EUR 132 million in aid. This support is necessary to guide skeyes through the current crisis in the aviation sector. Long negotiations preceded that, which makes sense. Skeyes will have to make a number of contributions, such as reducing CO2 emissions and submitting to a financial audit. Under what financial arrangements was the new loan of EUR 110 million committed to skeyes? What specific obligations were imposed on skeyes in exchange for the loan? To what extent are they measurable, enforceable and/or sanctionable? Until when is the proper functioning of skeyes guaranteed by these new means? I understand this is not an easy assessment. What is the pattern of expectations regarding the recovery of the aviation sector and how far will skeyes get?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I would like to deal with three different aspects of skeyes. A first aspect concerns the appointment of Mr Decuyper as CEO. We were rather surprised that the appointment would be renewed. We have had hearings in Parliament with both the trade unions and Mr Decuyper himself. We then found that there was a great deal of criticism and that the social unrest in skeyes has been going on for a very long time. Today there is even another strike announcement by the three trade unions on social consultation at skeyes. So the situation remains very precarious. Therefore, we do not fully understand how this extension came about. What are the criteria for extending the appointment of the CEO of skeyes? Were there any other candidates besides Mr. Decuyper? Can we conclude that, in view of the extension of Mr Decuyper's mandate, the government fully supports him and therefore puts aside the grievances of the workers and the trade unions? The position of the workers' side has long been known. What's the status of the staff shortage in skeyes? After all, it was also an important discussion that saved years of staff, in which Mr Decuyper first denied, but then admitted that there was a shortage of staff. Has sufficient staff been trained to begin the post-corona era? Are conditions imposed by the government on the restoration of normal functioning social dialogue? Those are my questions about Mr Decuyper. My second question is based on a written question that we asked you. It's a question about the consults at skeyes. I had asked for a review of the past five years. However, you only provided us with a balance sheet from January to 30 September 2020. During those nine months, skeyes spent 14.1 million euros on consultants. I read that in the written reply. In my questions I would like to go a little further on the figures you gave us about the costs. In this respect, we would like a more detailed overview of the installations or projects carried out by consultants. Can you give me that overview? Can you list how many skeyes have spent over the past five years on consultants and on which she spent those amounts? Can you also give us a list of the consultants with which skeyes has worked for the past five years? Given the very specific market in which skeyes is located, it seems bizarre to us that so many consultants are needed. For large strategic projects, such as the development of a new air traffic control system, it seems to us that there are a lot of people within the company who are quite capable of carrying out certain things. We also hear that skeyes work in social dialogue with consultants. There are two consultants in the social dialogue, namely HR Management and a lawyer. Is it, in your view, a normal course of social dialogue that consultants take place at the negotiating table? I also had a question about the loan, but it was already asked by the previous speaker. My final question is about the cooperation between Defense and Skeyes. Both operate in the air traffic center CANAC 2 in Steenokkerzeel. My questions are as follows. How do you evaluate the collaboration between Defense and Skeyes? Are there already detailed plans for more in-depth cooperation, whereby both entities can carry out the same tasks? If this were the case, is this a solution to the shortage of staff? What is the approach to wage differentials? As regards the training centre of the EPNB, we ask ourselves why a private company was set up to provide these training courses to public staff, both to skeyes and to Defense. Skeyes detaches skeyes instructors and accommodation to EPNB, a private training company, creating a bunch of mutual invoicing. Do you have eyes on that? With regard to training, there seems to be a problem with the different ways in which the staff is approached, depending on whether they are military or skeye's people. The military would be regarded as second-class citizens. Do you have any idea what the situation is and what the problems are? For recruitment, there appears to be an arrangement whereby Defense may only recruit candidates for skeyes who have not passed the FEAST tests and who are therefore, by definition, not fit to become a traffic controller. This seems like a bizarre system to us. Is it true that skeyes take precedence over defense in the recruitment of air traffic controllers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u79	Mr President, Mr Toventors, as a result of the health crisis, the revenues of skeyes have fallen sharply. This is a result of the sharp decline in air traffic, and this now raises a liquidity problem in skeyes. On 30 April 2021, in order to ensure that skeyes can continue to carry out its public service tasks, the government decided, at my request, to provide financial assistance to skeyes in the form of a loan of EUR 110 million. The loan is mainly intended to cover temporary cash requirements and must be repaid in five years. It will be subject to an amendment to the management contract for skeyes, the modalities of which will be included in a KB I will sign. The KB will soon be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Mrs Vindevoghel, the renewal of the board of directors of skeyes and the appointment of his CEO are on the agenda of a forthcoming ministerial council. I therefore do not wish to go further on this matter for the collective decision that the government will take. With regard to consultancy at skeyes, skeyes used external resources for the installation, maintenance and repair of infrastructure by specialised suppliers and subcontractors, for temporary reinforcement of staff, for carrying out studies and for certain services, such as security, cleaning and catering. The cost of these external resources was around EUR 17 million per year on average over the last five years. In view of the staff shortage in skeyes, a plan to modernise and renew installations and systems has been implemented since 2015. The internal resources have been strengthened by the recruitment of no less than 328 persons between 2015 and 2019. The number of employees increased by 12% during that period. However, the resumption of investment also requires recourse to external resources due to the lack of internal resources and the need for temporary recourse to advanced expertise, but also because of the difficulty of recruiting certain profiles on the labour market and of not having to stop important projects in the meantime. In connection with the social dialogue, Deputy Prime Minister De Sutter asked the HR Director and his deputy to join the ministerial cabinet. An external HR-manager ad interim has temporarily taken on the tasks. Meanwhile, a new HR manager was recruited, which started in April 2021. In connection with cooperation with Defence, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Mobility signed a Framework Agreement in October 2018 to develop synergies in the field of air navigation services. The long-term objective is to integrate civil and military air navigation services. These synergies should enable both organisations not only to work more efficiently but also to improve the efficiency of flights in Belgian airspace. A first major milestone in synergy was achieved in 2019 with the co-location of civil and military air traffic controllers at the skeyes control centre in Steenokkerzeel. There is also a technical harmonization, with grouped purchases of systems, with a view to rationalizing the technical systems. In 2018, skeyes joined forces with the Swedish Academy of Entry Point North (EPN), in the form of a joint venture. Thanks to this cooperation, skeyes have the resources and expertise to provide prospective air traffic controllers with quality training, both for their own needs and for those of Defence or air navigation service providers from other countries. Before the creation of this joint venture, skeyes had to outsource the training abroad for years. The training of air traffic controllers is very demanding and the success rate is low, both for citizens and for military. Skeyes and EPN are looking for solutions to increase the success rate, without lowering the expected level, thus ensuring the safety of air navigation. Defense is ready to recruit new air traffic controllers. Both entities have already worked together for recruitment campaigns, but the actual selection is still completely separate. Therefore, the priority of skeyes on the Defense Department is not at issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u80	Minister, this answer is not very helpful, but something. You will work with KBs and this operation will be part of the management agreement. Well, hopefully we'll read it there. If it is negotiated for so long and then decided to include it in a management agreement, the modalities themselves will have been discussed and agreed. More information than that the loan is refundable in five years, I have not been able to get out of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u81	Minister, the appointment of Mr Decuyper must not be the subject of light. As parliamentarians, we should have more say, or we should know, for example, what the criteria someone has to meet in order to be a good CEO. It is very important for the staff that a CEO has a good relationship with the staff and with the trade unions that represent them. That's been limping for a long time. Hopefully the staff will also be listened to in the decisions. The question of consultants lives with the staff. They do not understand why there is sometimes too much recourse to these agencies, while there is a great deal of internal knowledge of their own staff. That's an extra cost for a company, isn't it? More attention should be paid to whether business cannot be done on its own and not by consultants. When we visited skeyes last year, we saw the collaboration with that Swedish company. It is strange that a foreign company is needed for this and that they cannot give the training themselves. The chances of success are also small. Then the question must be asked as to why. These are important safety functions. It is important to ensure that the training for those people goes well so that they pass their exams.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u82	Mr Minister, on 23 March 2021, the CRB and the NAR issued a joint own-initiative opinion on the recovery and resilience plan of the federal government. They note that a large proportion of mobility projects in the design plan for recovery and resilience were already planned and that therefore hardly any new projects are being implemented in the future. In the opinion of the Council, the limitation of mobility projects from the recovery and resilience plan will not be enough to make mobility more sustainable and smooth in our country. They call for this to be integrated into a broader recovery and investment plan, the resources of which are not limited to the resources provided by Europe. They therefore call on the federal government to draw up a broader plan. The Councils consider that improving the quality of railway infrastructure is necessary to enable the shift to rail in both passenger and freight transport. They wonder whether the investment projects to improve the quality of rail infrastructure respect the principle of additionality. In their view, European funds should not replace the necessary long-term structural investment in rail that was already budgeted and planned. Minister, is the Council's opinion that there will be hardly any new mobility projects? Will the EU Restoration Fund only be used to finance the planned mobility projects? Will European funds not replace long-term investments already planned in the Belgian rail sector rather than lead to additional investment? In accordance with the government agreement, you wish to double rail freight transport by 2030, while today's market share is only 7%, a historic low. The Councils do not see any additional initiatives to support freight transport. In what way will you try to achieve the doubling of freight transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u83	Mrs Vindevoghel, I look at things with some optimism. Always seeing problems, but never solving them, is not a good way to reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u84	We must be ambitious, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u85	Sure, I am. Mrs Vindevoghel, I have, of course, read the opinions of the CRB and the NAR thoroughly. Let us not forget the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, which also contributed to these opinions. Two opinions were issued, a first opinion on structural reforms through the recovery and resilience plan and a second opinion on investment projects. The funds from the European Recovery Fund will indeed be used to carry out largely planned mobility projects. However, you should not forget that an investment already planned has not necessarily already been financed, especially in the area of rail. Moreover, in order to benefit from the European Recovery Plan, investments must be made by 2026. The investments financed by the European Union thus guarantee the implementation of these projects. In addition, it releases resources that can be allocated to other mobility projects, both new mobility projects and urgent repair and maintenance work. European funds ensure that large Belgian investments can also be spent on other mobility projects, which will ultimately make it possible to invest more. The European funds used under the National Recovery and Resilience Plan do not therefore conflict with long-term investment. They work as a lever for additional investments. On Friday 30 April, the Belgian Government officially submitted the national plan to the European Commission. As Minister for Mobility, I am also very pleased that EUR 365 million, a quarter of the Belgian funding from the federal plan, is earmarked for rail. Investment in the railways has been neglected for too long. The train must be the backbone of the mobility of the future. There is an urgent need to make the train even more attractive so that it becomes a comprehensive alternative to car traffic and freight transport by heavy goods vehicles. A freight train will replace no less than fifty trucks. You can see that the national plan does indeed set out substantial investments in support of rail freight transport. One of the objectives of the plan is to facilitate a modal shift to rail. Investments serve to electrify certain lines, improve access to our ports and the freight corridor. For example, funds are earmarked for electrification of lines in ports and on the Rhine-Alps freight corridor for around €32 million, the modernisation of tracks and the construction of 750 metres of track on the European freight corridors North Sea - Mediterranean and Rhine-Alps for around €17,5 million, the modernisation and extension of railway infrastructure, railway lines and triage facilities in the ports of Antwerp and Ghent for around €19,5 million, the modernisation of other strategically important railway infrastructure for freight transport and the optimisation of facilities for industrial customers for an amount of €10,5 million. Each euro invested in the railways generates three euros of direct and indirect revenue. Mrs Vindevoghel, in the coming months I will urge the federal government to go beyond European funds and to make a clear choice for future investment. The EUR 365 million investment is a very important and beautiful first step. Of course, this is not enough given the needs and our ambition for the Belgian rail network. The covid crisis has weakened us, but it must also make us stronger and help us build the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u86	Minister, you say that I am negative, but above all I want to be ambitious. That is where we are on the same page. You also want to be ambitious. You are right when you point out that there has been no investment for years, and it is also true that there is a great deal of catching up to be done now. In any case, we are still concerned about whether investment will be sufficient, given the years of disinvestment. Nor am I convinced of your ambition to double the share of freight transport. I do not think that is possible with the current resources. I have a question about this, in particular about Schaarbeek Training. We'll keep pulling the cart. There has to be enough investment in the railroad. That's important for the climate-related switch. We really need to make a serious effort on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u87	Minister, I would like to be brief, but I think it is important to point out that we should certainly take into account their accessibility in the new ticketing machines. That's how I was contacted by the deaf community. They explicitly ask not to opt for a dial-up connection with an employee, but for a video connection so that they can see the person, read lips and possibly use sign language. Minister, when will the new ticket machines be put into service? Will this new ticket machine immediately present the most advantageous formula to the traveller? Will there be cooperation with other transport companies? Are you considering whether you can work with a video connection? I just explained why this could be important. What additional features will these new ticket machines have compared to the current ticket machines?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u88	Colleagues, thank you for your questions. A new generation of automatons will actually gradually take place in our stations. The new vending machines will offer the customer a more modern and intuitive interface. In addition, it is also examined whether the customer can be offered the possibility to contact an operator of SNCB via video connection. SNCB cooperates with specialised partners and associations representing PPE passengers (persons with reduced mobility) to determine the adjustments to the new vending machines. The study is ongoing and the results will be included in the specifications. SNCB expects to be able to roll out by 2023 at the earliest. On the other hand, it is not yet clear where the first vending machines will be. Today there is the possibility to call SNCB's call centre to receive direct assistance from a vending machine, taking over remote control. SNCB notes that this service is rarely used, with about two calls a day, while there are 760 automatons today. SNCB is constantly working to improve the presentation of the most attractive price for travellers on the various channels. For example, both on the website and on the new app the price is displayed directly for each of the products offered. This way the customer can immediately find the cheapest price between the different products offered. A message also informs the customer when another ticket offers a more attractive price for the same trip. The same techniques will also be integrated into next generation vending machines. Your question about possible cooperation with other carriers is very interesting, but no decision has yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u89	Mr Minister, I am, of course, looking forward to further information on these machines and the roll-out from 2023. For us it is essential that they are easily accessible, easy to use and thus automatically guarantee the cheapest rate. Mrs Buyst, I'm glad you got a call too, because most of the time it's Mrs Vindevoghel who gets a call. That does not prevent your comment on deafness from being entirely justified. Minister, I am very pleased to hear from you that the possibility of video connection is being examined. Of course, we know in advance that this will be used relatively little, but it will still be worth the cost of the investment. Finally, I hope that these machines will comply with what I have just listed. In any case, they will never be able to replace for us the role, the service and the friendly operation of a counter operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u90	Minister, I too am very much looking forward to the roll-out of these different ticket machines. This is important because, of course, a lot of discussions have taken place here over the last few weeks and months. It's about closing the digital divide. It's about accessibility. It's about leading travellers to the cheapest formula. All these things come together here. Ticket machines can be an important link in this. I hope we will certainly not miss opportunities here. Mr President, I would also like to apologize, because I have to go to another committee now. I will not be present for my question. 55016670C, but that concerns combined questions, so I will be able to read the answer in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u91	Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for his answer. For me, the word concertation is synonymous with hope. As Mrs Buyst has pointed out, the hearings we have had in this committee have shown how important it is to involve the sector in this decision-making process in order to prevent public procurement from becoming missed opportunities because all the comments would not have been taken into account. There are different types of disability that need to be taken into account, both in the responses that we are going to bring through technology – it is important to push SNCB to be creative about this – but also in relation to associations or other public institutions like bpost. It is essential to broaden the range of solutions for different users.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u92	Mr President, Minister, on the basis of an investigation and the collection of testimonies, journalist Philippe Engels states, in a recently published book, that SNCB staff, dependent on the previous chairman of the board of directors, were used in two election campaigns in 2012 and 2014. Other cases of this type have already been the subject of judicial convictions in the past. When I say other files of this type, I refer to other levels of power and I am not targeting SNCB. Several questions may arise as to the use of personnel of a self-employed public enterprise for personal purposes, abuse of authority, and possible misbenefits. Minister, does SNCB have any information about the facts mentioned in the book mentioned? Is SNCB already considering filing a complaint or could it do so, on the basis of the evidence in its possession? What is in place to avoid such practices in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u93	Mr Roggeman is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u94	Minister, I have been very dismayed to learn that in the 2014 federal elections railway officials of SNCB were paid to distribute election propaganda leaflets for MR politician Reynders, the current European Commissioner for the Enforcement of the Rule of Law. At least that's what investigative journalist English wrote in his new book Le clan Reynders. In his book, SNCB staff testify that, at the request of outgoing chairman of SNCB's Board of Directors, Mr Fontinoy, they had to distribute Mr Reynders' campaign material in pre-charted zones. So it was very well organized and prepared. Besides their testimony, the book also draws on a number of logbooks and photos, including an image of the service car of the SNCB top man with a trunk full of campaign material. If the facts quoted are true, that goes against the law. The employees of the railway company are paid with public money and tax money and should therefore not be involved in election campaigns. What steps will the Minister take and has he already taken to clarify this matter? Will the Minister take additional measures to ensure that a repetition of the facts or similar facts will no longer be possible in the future? If so, which one? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u95	Mr President, I shall now turn to my questions. Mr. Secretary, have you read the book yet? Are the claims in the book true? Do you think it's possible that something like this could happen? What measures will you take? Is there going to be an independent investigation into these practices that are certainly scandalous?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u96	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I haven't read the whole book, but several passages do. If I were still a Member of Parliament, I would certainly question the Minister on this issue. This is exactly the kind of question that I would have asked a minister because the facts are intriguing. After the publication of the book by journalist Engels and after testimonies on which you are rightly questioning me, I immediately contacted SNCB. In its reply, SNCB informs me that the facts cited are not known on its Management Committee. Similarly, the Compliance and Investigation Office of the SNCB, in charge of internal investigations, confirmed that it had never been aware of such facts and, therefore, that no investigation had been carried out at the time on the subject. In its reply, SNCB management also confirms to me that it considers this type of behaviour inadmissible and "that it would be in breach of the code of conduct applicable to all SNCB staff". This code is known and published on the company's intranet. As a competent minister, I can confirm that I condemn these facts of the past, of course from afar before I take office. I will do everything possible to prevent such events in the future, but I consider this to be completely exceptional and rare. I have no doubt that the appointment of a new Board of Directors and a new Chairman of SNCB by decision of the Council of Ministers of 23 April this year will go a long way towards avoiding such events in the future. I really hope the end of an era and the beginning of another era.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answers. Issues of governance ethics are important to us. We may be indignant, but we must also act and avoid such events being allowed to renew and involve SNCB staff. It will therefore be necessary to put all the markers and use the necessary tools. We'll pay attention to it. One may wonder how illustrative this type of file is of a period of time, but one must be able to project. Minister, I plead that we should be able to register in breach of this type of governance and of the facts set out in this book. I welcome the role of the investigative press in relation to this dossier, but I believe that in-house we must be able to protect whistleblowers. The facts that have been denounced today date from seven years ago, and I think we should be able to allow this type of fact to be disclosed. To declare is also to be able to investigate at the time the facts occur and be able to act accordingly. I'm counting on you to strengthen these ethical beacons.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u98	Minister, I agree with you. I'm with you for disapproval of those facts. It's hard to say otherwise. I think we feel the same way about what would have happened there. I regret, however, that SNCB reports that it is not aware of the facts. No investigation will therefore be initiated. I don't think it's possible that this man, not an unspoken figure, can just leave and that's the end of the story. I would nevertheless urge SNCB to consider what steps might be taken against Mr Fontinoy, because of course he has abused taxpayers' money. The taxpayers' money does not serve to campaign for Mr Reynders. Besides, I can only express my relief that that man is gone. I hope that he will be removed from all structures of power, because figures like Mr Fontinoy can be missed anywhere like the plague.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u99	Minister, it is good that you yourself say that such practices cannot be done. You say it won't happen again, but I don't think it's okay that no investigation will be conducted. If this was an ordinary employee, he'd probably get his resignation. Mr Fontinoy has made a number of concessions. It's not even just about this. Other things have happened, too. The PVDA believes that an investigation should be initiated. One cannot just let this pass. It is important for everyone that such practices are not tolerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u100	Mrs Buyst has gone to another committee, so she cannot ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u101	Minister, so many tickets have never been purchased online. The new app launched by SNCB should make it easier for the traveller to purchase a digital ticket. Unfortunately, technical problems arise very often when purchasing a ticket via the app. This leads to great frustration on the part of the traveller, who often has to buy a ticket again from the conductor, but has to pay a surcharge for it. Afterwards it often turns out that the traveler paid for the digital ticket anyway, but that it was not available in the overview of the app. Moreover, according to SNCB's website, it is not possible to obtain a refund for digital products. Minister, what is the cause of the many problems involved in purchasing tickets via the app? What solutions does SNCB provide for these problems? If there are technical problems in the app, will double-paid train tickets be refunded by SNCB? What procedure should then be followed? Are there also figures on the number of problems with the purchase of tickets in the app? How many tickets have been reimbursed for these problems so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u102	Mr President, I suppose Mrs Buyst will read the answer in the report. Mrs Verhaert, the customer-friendliness of the track is, as you know, one of my priorities. First of all, let me point out that, in comparison with other public transport providers, SNCB is flexible when its passengers forget their subscription. The traveller only has to report to the ticket office of his choice within fourteen days in order to get the total amount he paid on the train back. Even when a vending machine fails, the passengers are not affected. After all, the on-board fare will automatically be switched off. In addition, SNCB informs me that the vending machines function well about 99% of the time. The on-board fare is mainly used to encourage passengers to have a valid ticket in their possession before taking the train. Applying the on-board fare ensures clarity. After all, the train supervisor can't turn it off. In turn, the clarity means less discussion and aggression on board. This is good for everyone, travelers as well as escorts. SNCB informs me that a comparison of the number of on-board sales with the on-board fare and the number of times that customers offered themselves at the window to recover their purchase on board is unfortunately not available. SNCB also informs me that by 2020 sales via digital channels represented more than 75% of total sales. Moreover, a continuous meeting of customer satisfaction shows that the satisfaction with digital purchases is very high. It is true that SNCB is working on the possibility of proving through the app that a train subscription is available, even if the Mobib card is forgotten. SNCB hopes to be able to offer this functionality to passengers in the course of 2022. SNCB stresses that customer-friendliness is always at the heart of this. In addition, SNCB informs me that a traveller who bought a ticket via the app no longer needs an Internet connection to show that ticket on board. It is true that the refund conditions for digitally purchased banknotes printed in pdf form, for example, are different from regular tickets. That has to do with the risk of fraud. After all, it is possible to travel with notes that have already been paid back. SNCB is well aware of this imbalance and investigates various technical slopes in order to rectify it. I can only encourage this, like all other possible improvements to the ticket sales system in order to increase passenger satisfaction. Mrs Verhaert, I have not been able to receive an answer to some of your specific questions since this weekend's submission, for which I apologise. I will forward this in writing later.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u103	Minister, you accepted a subscription that would have been forgotten and a vending machine that would not work. However, that was not the problem I raised. It's about people buying tickets before they quit, but then they have to find out it's not getting loaded. They see afterwards that the money does go off their account, but they do not have a ticket that they can show on the train. The system is stalled and people cannot recover the purchase price from a digital purchase. In fact, they pay twice and it is also about the on-board fare. I am certainly not opposed to that, because I understand the benefits, but the point is that people pay double. That is a problem that is regularly raised with me. If we focus on digitalisation, it is also important that the system works. I look forward to the answers you will give me in writing. You say that within 14 days you can register at the counter for a forgotten subscription. As long as there are still problems with the app, I would like to insist that train drivers handle this smoothly or that costs can be recovered afterwards until the problem is resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u104	Minister, the National Energy and Climate Plan sets out the ambition to conclude an inter-federal cooperation agreement on sustainable mobility, based on consultations between the federal state and the regions on a number of specific issues such as public transport, transport, taxation and so on. It was intended to conclude this agreement before 1 January 2021, but that deadline was apparently not met. What is the state of this inter-federal mobility agreement? What's the reason why the original deadline wasn't met? By when can we expect an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u105	Mr Raskin, the National Energy and Climate Plan was concluded during the previous legislature and indeed provides for an inter-federal agreement on sustainable mobility. As far as I know, an interfederal agreement was not a request from my predecessor, nor from the FPS Mobility. Nor is it particularly my wish, and such an agreement is not planned. I always prefer dialogue and the composition of solutions. Since I am a minister, this dialogue has taken place within the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Mobility Conference, in which we meet every six weeks, with my three excellent and sympathetic regional colleagues. This IMC delivers very good results and shows that cooperation federalism works. I'm happy about that, and we'll continue to work this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u106	Minister, we are faced with major challenges with regard to the shift to sustainable mobility, and we agree on this, together with a large number of people. We do not always share the same opinion on the path towards the strategy to be followed, but I can say that we agree on the challenge. Even now you are giving a very general answer, with consultation and a conference here or there. You are pleased with the result, but I have not heard any concrete results from you. It very often remains with vague generalities and, with respect, often a woolly story about the dreamed ideal world and a reference to many consultative structures, but without concrete results. I can't get rid of the impression that not much has happened. The greenest government ever, they say, with very high ambitions. These exist mainly on paper and in consultative structures, but I fear that it will remain with the texts of the coalition agreement and the policy papers for the time being. We'll wait and see what the future holds, and we'll keep following up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u107	Mr President, I would like to give a concrete example to Mr Raskin. The project has been running in Brussels for six months, but it has been on the scaffolding for 20 years. It's a small but necessary step. The dialogue is very constructive and we are continuing on this path. You may not like hearing that, but it's really our intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u108	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the limited additional information. I thought the ambitions of the greenest government ever were greater. I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u109	Minister, the European Commission has imposed a €270,000 cartel fine on SNCB because it would have made illegal price agreements with the German DB and Austrian ÖBB. Those two last companies had actually started doing this in 2008. They exchanged information among themselves on requests for price offers from potential customers, in which agreements on pricing were made between them. In 2011, SNCB started participating in this game and joined the cartel, which is contrary to European competition rules. That took until 2014. Minister, will you order further investigation into the facts? Then, of course, I come to the responsibility. Was SNCB's board of directors aware of these facts at the time? If it wasn't, why not? Were the necessary control mechanisms lacking? Who did shape the illegal practices? Are some of them still active at SNCB today? I think that is a very important point. If the board were aware of this, would it approve that course of action? Who were the members of the then board of directors? Are certain members of that council still active at SNCB today, possibly in a different role? Who will pay the fine? Was there any provision for a commission? Will the damage be recovered from any responsible persons? What action will you take to ensure that a repetition of the facts and other breaches of the law will be impossible in future?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u110	Mr Arens, I am always happy to hear you. I also welcome Mr Troosters. Mr Toventers, Mr Arens, SNCB confirms that the European Commission completed an investigation into certain practices in the former subsidiary SNCB Logistics between November 2011 and April 2014. Those practices in the context of trilateral freight rail services offered by ÖBB, Deutsche Bahn and the former SNCB Logistics were aimed at securing the position of lead carrier of one of the participating operators. The European Commission considered these practices to constitute an infringement of the competition rules and imposed a fine of EUR 270 000 in the case of the former SNCB Logistics. From the outset, SNCB has been fully involved in the European Commission's investigation. It is jointly and severally liable for the fine imposed by the European Commission, only because the former SNCB Logistics was a wholly owned subsidiary of SNCB at the time the infringement was committed. As a reminder, SNCB sold its majority stake in the former SNCB Logistics in October 2015. It has not held any interest in its former subsidiary since 14 January 2021. It is the competent authority, namely the European Commission, which conducted the investigation into the facts in question and gave its ruling. Consequently, from my position I should not initiate an additional investigation into those old facts. In addition, SNCB informs me that it is committed to the training of its employees on a daily basis in order to comply fully with all applicable legal and regulatory frameworks, both in terms of strategic decisions and in terms of day-to-day operation. The fine will not be met with public money from the amount. With regard to the complaints of the competitors you are referring to, Mr Arens, the SNCB has not – to date – taken note of any complaints and/or complaints. To become a minister also means to take on a past – which I am obviously working on, whatever the questions asked – but also to look to the future, to prevent such practices from happening again. In this case, with regard to the transport of goods, the former subsidiary of SNCB is now completely autonomous. Fortunately, these are ancient facts. I welcome the fact that the current management of SNCB has collaborated in the European Commission's investigation – without, of course, welcoming this condemnation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u111	Mr Minister, you are quite right: these are old facts that have taken place at SNCB's subsidiary, but SNCB is getting that on its plate today. SNCB says that it is committed to the training of its employees. If we had asked a question about this in 2010, SNCB would have also answered that it is working on the training of its staff in the field of ethics, among other things, and yet the facts have happened. It's just because ethical rules are broken, that something like that happens. I find it striking that, in the end, there is no cock crow to who was responsible or played a role in this, such as Mr Fonntinoy. Those people just get away with it. I can only regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u112	Minister, I thank you for your response and am very pleased to learn that SNCB is making every effort, including training, to ensure that this type of practice is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u113	Mr President, Infrabel is one of the ambassadors of the project 'Bridging employers'. These ambassadors anchor the hybrid work and the new mobility in the policy, and we see that as an honorary title for Infrabel in Flemish Interest. The three pillars on which this project is based are: smarter and greener on the road; human-oriented, hybrid works; and of course less on the road. Teleworking is becoming more and more the rule, also with Infrabel. You can do that at home or from one of their seven satellite offices. This is being re-evaluated after corona and it seems to be the intention to take some further steps. According to CEO Gilson, the responses to telework are very positive. He added that a flexible HR regime would be the future, and that this flexibility would create a freedom that would benefit physical and mental well-being. This should also benefit the motivation and the corresponding result, according to Gilson. In terms of being smarter and greener on the road, Infrabel is also trying to set an example. In this context, among other things, the use of the train is promoted and, of course, reimbursed. For my questions, which are quite extensive, I refer to my written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u114	Mr President, Infrabel informs me of the following. There is no doubt that the system of teleworking during the corona crisis is an emergency solution and that everyone will be happy to return to normal life soon. In normal times, however, telework was assessed very positively in an Infrabel evaluation. Teleworkers are the main advantage of finding a better balance between work and private life and more efficient and concentrated work. The current health crisis is likely to bring about lasting behavioural changes and new practices. This will have to be taken into account when defining workplaces. This applies both to railways and to many other sectors. However, we can assume that the vast majority of staff working on structural telework will continue to go to the office a few days a week, as a physical presence remains required for their work. I come to your third question. Due to the recent opening of a satellite office in Bascoup's workshop, the counter is currently at eight. In the first instance, an analysis is made of the current place of residence of the workers, in order to generate a so-called heatmap. On the basis of this map, Infrabel can determine the most appropriate locations for satellite work. By the end of this year or early next year, Infrabel plans to open satellite offices in Leuven, Namur, Kortrijk and Antwerp. By means of a reservation and monitoring system, Infrabel can measure the capacity utilisation rate and on this basis increase capacity according to needs. In a subsequent phase, Infrabel wants to increase the comfort of the satellite workers by placing lockers among others. For four years, Infrabel, like the other railway entities, has been offering the staff the opportunity to telework. Infrabel follows the recommendations of the experts and government decisions on a daily basis. At present, therefore, telework is still mandatory for all workers for whom this is possible. As soon as the pandemic is over, lessons will be learned from the new telework measures from the health crisis and the flexibility associated with it. It should be noted that all railway workers have always been allowed to travel by train free of charge for commuting. For example, users of public transport which have to go to other establishments or to the Infrabel Academy training centre will also be reimbursed for their costs or will be able to use green or electric service vehicles. Those who use the bike for their work trips will also receive a fee for this. The measures mentioned above are under continuous review. As an autonomous public enterprise, SNCB and Infrabel have the necessary autonomy to take measures with regard to their staff. They do so under the auspices of HR Rail and in accordance with a regulation negotiated with trade union organisations in the appropriate consultative bodies. A protocol of social agreement is currently being drawn up for this purpose. It is not appropriate to communicate any information on this at this stage, in order to respect the freedom of consultation of everyone in their role.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u115	Minister, I did not receive an answer to all my questions. However, I notice that you link the teleworking and new forms of work implemented at Infrabel very closely to corona. Perhaps I have misunderstood or misinterpreted the various articles where Mr Gilson is quoted, because they refer to new forms of work in general, including in the post-corona era. I regret that. However, we are pleased to learn that the number of satellite offices is now and will continue to rise to eight. I find that very positive, in the light of the decentralisation and regionalisation of physical workplaces. I will continue to monitor the impact of this on the current headquarters of Infrabel and any new headquarters that have been mentioned for a number of years. I suspect that this project will be rather megalomaniac, just like the SNCB head office that has just been mentioned, and I think that perhaps that ambition can be reduced a little bit. To be continued, no doubt. I hope that Infrabel will continue to defend the ambassadorship title of 'Bridging employer' - with much bravado. For Flemish Interest they will still have to take additional steps, even after corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u116	Minister, together with your predecessor, I had the opportunity to discuss a possible reopening of the Eupen-Stolberg cross-border line in order to allow the Euregiobahn to join our two countries. Infrabel had also been asked to study the possibility of reopening this line. On the German side, the news is rather positive since the rail managers are enthusiastic about this project. In recent years, major investments have been made to improve railway infrastructure to the Belgian border, notably for the restoration of the Falkenbachviadukt, which was heavily damaged during the Second World War, and electrification of the line in question. On the German side, we do not hide the desire to reactivate this line. This project is very ambitious and would likely offer many advantages and new opportunities for both sides, especially for the city of Eupen. The reopening of this line would be a very good thing and I therefore hope that this dossier can be completed on our side. Minister, what about the possible reopening of this old railway line? What would be the material and therefore pecuniary investments to be made by Belgium? Have you had or has your administration ever had any contact with the German administration on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u117	Mrs Jadin, thank you for your patience in this committee and in this dossier. We all dream of reopening lines, but we all know that these are files that take time. It is true that, as Minister for Mobility, I have this dream of being able, in different places - I am asked by colleagues from different regions - to contribute to the reopening of lines. It takes time and it requires resources. The possible return to service of this railway line has been a subject discussed for several years and deserves to be studied quite openly. As you know, today, the 49-48 line between Eupen and Raeren border is out of service and can only be used on special authorisation. The investments to be taken into account would be, if one considers that one runs with diesel locomotives, as on the German side - which is not optimal from an environmental point of view - the signalling, including some level crossings. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we know the state of the network and that many investments would be essential for its renewal. Choices would therefore be necessary for the allocation of resources within a budgetary framework which remains limited and fixed. The German side is also working on the rehabilitation of this infrastructure. Infrabel has already met with Euregio Verkehrsschienennetz GmbH (EVS), based in Stolberg, who has invited him to show him German practices in the field of small lines. I will also discuss this issue with your excellent colleague, the mayor of Eupen Claudia Niessen, to see what can be done. I do not want to make reckless promises, but I want to be open to examining this issue, as we are doing for those who are being submitted by other members of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u118	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will reply in three points. First of all, the aim is obviously not to drive locomotives on diesel. I'm perfectly aware of that. Moreover, the purpose of my question is to know whether we can find ways of correctly assigning these lines: the Euregiobahn. Your friend, Mayor of Eupen, will confirm you, as I will – since we sit in the same communal majority as the nerve of war will obviously be the financing of the project. As such, I had proposed a path for your predecessor, in view of the budgetary means to be allocated at European level. We know that Euregio Meuse-Rhin still has investment opportunities, although we do not know what will happen in the future, since all these programmes will be renegotiated in the coming years. In any case, we may have a great opportunity to seize in terms of financial resources. On the other hand, and I would like to make it clear, there is a strategic opportunity to set up a line like this. Why do I say that? Because the University of Aachen, the RWTH, is expanding. An important university hub for North Rhine-Westphalia is being created. It has significant economic benefits for my region with an infrastructure such as the Euregiobahn which could thus link the three countries (Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands) and would be a very interesting instrument from an economic point of view. Yes, I think we need to be creative. I know that the resources of SNCB are not infinite and that this is not going to improve. I stand at your full disposal, Minister, in an attempt to find creative solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u119	Minister, you have just given a tip of the veil about the "MoveSafe" app of SNCB. You have already explained that the app does not really take into account the change in the occupation during the train journeys, but that it is being worked on. My question is general. Has an evaluation already been made of the frequency, use and technical aspects of the app? If not, will that still happen and when? If so, what were its findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u120	Mr President, Mr Toventors, SNCB informs me that an evaluation has recently been carried out and that the results have been assessed as very encouraging. Seventy percent of users consider the app to be positive; 77 % consider that the app is easy to use and 71 % believe that the app provides useful information. SNCB has received many constructive messages and feedback through the appstore and social media, enabling it to continue working on improvements. It seems that there are still some improvements possible. These include the following points. The app does not take into account the capacity utilisation rate, which can change dramatically during the journey. For example, it can be low when boarding, but high at the next stop. In addition, when searching for the current location, the app goes out while the user indicates that he prefers to search from station to station. SNCB tells me to work actively on these points, which I can only encourage, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u121	Minister, your answer was very clear and to the point. I hope that the necessary efforts will be made to further invest in this, because even after the corona crisis, of course, the app will be very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u122	Mr President, Minister, thank you for taking up this last question. The last three weeks the traffic around Hasselt was very difficult, now it is a bit better, but certainly towards Antwerp it was a soup. Several infrastructure works were in progress at the same time. I used to work in Antwerp, so I can briefly outline the problem. Someone who wants to get to Antwerp quickly has two options in the morning. There's a peak hour train through Diest, but there were jobs there. Plan B goes through Mol. We should take that train if anything goes wrong with the other one. However, there were also works there. Also towards Genk everything was still for some time due to the construction of a bridge. We are, of course, pleased that a catch-up is taking place in Limburg in the area of infrastructure, which I certainly welcome. Because all the works were performed at the same time, of course it became difficult. All traffic from Limburg had to cross the single track between Sint-Truiden and Alken. We just started the actua debate with an incident on Sunday night, when everything went wrong there. Also the arrangement around the seats at the window threw soot in the food there. It was then the only option to get out of Limburg. Are there any times planned when many infrastructure works are being carried out at the same time? Would it be better to coordinate so that all traffic does not have to cross the same line? Due to a number of incidents there have been some shorter trains, resulting in full trains. That has happened before, we are just in Limburg, but during this period of course that is not recommended. So can this be better coordinated and why isn't planning better, so that not all Limburgers had to go on a track in a shorter train?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u123	Minister, Mrs Creemers, first of all we should be glad that good investment is being made in Limburg. There are annoying consequences there, and we must avoid them as much as possible. SNCB informs me that she has communicated extensively the work in Hasselt with its stakeholders and its customers. I can give you the following important elements. First of all, it is important to know the context. The modernisation of the railway infrastructure at Hasselt station from the branch Hasselt-West to beyond the platforms has been necessary for many years. Due to the busy travel and movement of goods on the spot, the works could not be carried out in the past. The busy traffic to and from Aarschot, to and from Genk, to and from Mol, and to and from the traction workshop of SNCB come together in one place. Infrabel calls this the bottleneck or the bottleneck of Hasselt. The service life of the infrastructure was at an end there. The necessary renewal of the infrastructure is thus inevitably accompanied by an interruption of train traffic to and from Aarschot, Genk and Mol due to this particular situation. From this point of view, Infrabel opted to synchronize the large and necessary yards so that they could be carried out at the same time. It concerns in particular the conversion of the new bridge in Kuringen, the groundwork for the new signalling devices between Aarschot and Hasselt, the renewal of the project, the electrification of line 15, the maintenance of the railway infrastructure, the platform increase in Kievit and the acceleration of works for the Spartacus project. Infrabel has thus opted for the short pain, for the shortest possible pain. With the recent works the most urgent innovations have been carried out. However, in the coming years, Infrabel will continue to modernise in Hasselt to prepare Hasselt as an important hub for freight and passenger traffic to meet the challenges of the future. There will also be several weekends on the lines around Hasselt this year. Given the many infrastructure constraints, the development of an alternative transport plan by SNCB was a complex puzzle. A wide selection was made for Brussels, Antwerp and Mol, replacement buses connecting Hasselt with Diest, Aarschot, Mol and Leopoldsburg and Genk. Unfortunately, this inevitably led to longer travel times. A second IC train between Hasselt, Leuven and Brussels via Sint-Truiden was not available for several reasons. There is insufficient capacity on the single-track section between Hasselt and Landen. In Hasselt only four platforms were available, so an additional connection could no longer be installed. Additional equipment for a second connection was not available because access to the workshop in Hasselt was very limited due to the works on the above mentioned bottle neck during the works. As a result, there was hardly any material available and maintained in Hasselt. For the alternative train service several couples had to emigrate to Landen, Leuven, Aarschot, Schaerbeek and Kinkemmois. Information on the number of complaints and on the ratio of capacity and occupation of the replacement buses has not yet reached me. As I said in my introduction, there are indeed problems at the moment and I regret that for the Limburg travellers, but that is for better service. The works were needed because the railway infrastructure there is outdated and because too little investment has been made in the past. We need to fix that and clean it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u124	Mr. Secretary, you can't bake an omelet without breaking eggs, I understand that. It took a catch-up. I hope it's only gonna be short-lived pain. What makes it difficult is that the train sets couldn't be extended, especially now. We know the problem of the single track and we also know that going to Antwerp via Leuven always results in delays. However, if you are on the road for two hours for a journey over which you do by car, even with traffic jams, but an hour, then it becomes difficult to motivate people to take the train. I made the connection again this week, and it seems much better now. I hope that you can keep your finger on the wrist, Minister, and that, if there are any short, painful interventions needed, everything will be done to put longer trains, with more wagons, in place so that we do not sit in a can like sardines. Thank you very much for your answer and there are still many innovations to be made in Hasselt, we are certainly waiting for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-05-05-definitief-55-commissie-ic466x.u125	I would like to pay tribute to our new colleague, Mr Bernard Janssens, who was a member of our committee for the first time. He was a little anxious, but everything went well.
