ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u1	The meeting was called to order at 2.06 p.m. and chaired by the Chair, Ms. Eliane Tillieux. The meeting was opened at 2.06 p.m. and chaired by the president, Eliane Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u2	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u3	A series of communications and decisions must be brought to the attention of the House. They will be included on the House's website and included in the Integral Return Account of this sitting or its annex. A series of communications and decisions must be notified to the Chamber. You can find it on the Chamber's website and in the General Report of this sitting or in its annex. Ministers of the Federal Government present at the opening of the sitting: At the opening of the meeting, the Ministers of the Federal Government: Alexander De Croo, Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to welcome the presence of the family members of our former colleague, Mr Luc Dhoore. It is also an opportunity for us to evoke his memory through a tribute. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 February in Genk Luc Dhoore, Vice-President of the Chamber, died. He was 92. After obtaining his diploma as a doctor in law and law in political and colonial sciences at the University of Leuven, Luc Dhoore joined the cabinet of Minister of Public Education Pierre Harmel in the early 1950s. During that period he also became the right-hand man of the chairman of the General Christian Workers' Union in Limburg, MP Alfred Bertrand. After his appointment as director of the coal mine personnel department in Winterslag, the born Waarschotenaar Luc Dhoore settled forever in Limburg. In October 1969, Luc Dhoore became CVP-Kamer member for the Hasselt arrondissement, a mandate which he would continue to hold until January 1993. Very soon, this promising young parliamentarian in the future was called to a brilliant ministerial career that will last ten years. From January 1972 to December 1981, Luc Dhoore participated continuously in the successive governments of Belgium under Prime Ministers Gaston Eyskens, Edmond Leburton, Leo Tindemans, Paul Vanden Boeynants, Wilfried Martens and Mark Eyskens. He served successively as Secretary of State for the Regional Economy, Minister of Social Planning, Minister of Public Health and the Environment, and Minister of Social Planning and Public Health. I would like to highlight two of his numerous achievements as a minister. Luc Dhoore was particularly proud of his participation as Minister of Health at the Alma-Ata Conference in September 1978, which culminated in the Alma-Ata Declaration, a historic milestone in the recognition of the right to sound primary health care throughout the world. And he was also quite proud that in June 1981, during his last months as Minister, Parliament adopted its draft law on the general principles of social security for workers, a milestone in the history of social legislation in Belgium. At the end of his ministerial career, Luc Dhoore remained a very active Member of Parliament in his two political fields of choice: Social Vision and Public Health. During this second chapter as a Member of Parliament, which he later described as the most captivating period of his life, he also appeared in the Committee on External Relations, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Justice, of which he was a highly esteemed member. From May 1988 to December 1991, Luc Dhoore was president of the CVP Group. It was during this period that he put forward his proposal for a law on the limitation and control of election expenses and on the financing and open accounting of political parties. Its text, now more commonly known as "Dhoore Law", was adopted on 4 July 1989. In 1993 Luc Dhoore put an end to his national political career, after leaving the Genk City Council a few years earlier. But for more than two decades this tireless worker would continue his social commitment, including as chairman of the Flemish Centre for the Integration of Migrants and as chairman of the National Centre for Development Cooperation. Together with his wife Julie Standaert, he set up support and assistance actions in the Great Lakes region of Central Africa, which has enjoyed his special interest since his childhood. He was also always busy for AWEPA, an association of MEPs in support of parliamentary democracy in Africa. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with Luc Dhoore, we are losing a prominent politician, who distinguished himself by his great knowledge of the file and his unbridled work, but also, as his fellow countryman and friend Wilfried Martens often testified, by his absolute incorruptibility. But we will also remember Luc Dhoore as an ever-loving colleague who, from his Christian-democratic beliefs, firmly believed in a better world, and who has worked hard to do so up to an old age. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his wife Julie and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been very saddened by the death on 10 February 2021 of Mr Luc Dhoore, former federal representative, group chairman for the CVP and Honorary Vice-President of the Federal Parliament from 1969 to 1993. In addition, Mr Dhoore was also a member of successive federal governments from 1972 to 1981, in which he took over the powers of regional economy, spatial planning, housing, social security, public health and the environment with great respect for the file. Born in Waarschoot, the heart of the East Flemish Meetjesland, Mr Dhoore was a generation- and regional colleague of the late Minister of State Wilfried Martens. For many years, the life path of both gentlemen followed the same path: from the local KSA to the Saint Vincent College in Eeklo, the KU Leuven and the cabinet of Minister and Prime Minister Pierre Harmel to the final member of the same federal governments. Mr Dhoore was a socially moved man with an almost inimitable social commitment, for the people, between the people, from his native village of Waarschoot, where, according to fellow party members in the 1970s, he helped prevent a merger with the neighbors of Eeklo, about his beloved Limburg, where he lived most of his life, to Africa, where he worked for people in need and local democracy. As a man and politician, he had values of solidarity, transparency, respect and tolerance. He was a politician who could serve as an example for many. I would like to quote his friend Wilfried Martens, who wrote in his memoirs: "An exceptional man in the Christian Democratic family is Luc Dhoore. For ten years he made capital decisions as minister. Even after his ministry, he continued his task for the community. He remained the incorruptible politician, who he always was." Colleagues, he owes this incorruptibility to the strict separation of politics and business, which he sought. It is therefore not surprising that the Luc Dhoore network was the basis of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure, the financing and the open accounting of political parties. Nor is it surprising that he has also left his mark on the law on social security for workers and the law on combating racism. He did politics as he was as a human being: fair, social and tolerant. He did politics with an impact to date; we all agree on that. He was also celebrated for that. He was a born East Fleming, lived most of his life and lived in the Limburg Genk, where he was a city council member from 1971 to 1988 and where in 2009 he became the first honorary citizen of the city for his wealthy career serving the community. We are therefore very grateful to Luc Dhoore for his decades of commitment to our country and its inhabitants. His family loses a tender, loving man. The country is losing an absolute statesman. Christian democracy loses one of its monuments. The government expresses its deepest condolences to the family and relatives of the deceased.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u6	Let's watch a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, as we decided to start the meeting a little earlier because of the European Council in which the Prime Minister is to take part, I would ask the members who are calling on the Prime Minister to respect the time of two minutes and, if necessary, to speak more quickly so as not to use the two minutes. For this time, we will interrupt the chronometer at two minutes, even if the sentence is not finished, because we have an extremely strict timing to respect. I hope, of course, that the Prime Minister will have the time to respond, and above all, to allow each member to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, while you are communicating that the numbers are not good yet, that the risks are still high, parties of your majority are just saying the opposite by announcing loud and clear 36,000 promises to citizens and sectors in agony. Yes, some rules may change. But to make the citizens believe, in these agonizing sectors, that deliverance is for tomorrow brings only one thing: total ras-le-bol and loss of membership. Next to that, the vaccination skates completely. Delays in delivery do not explain everything. More than 300,000 doses in freezers; serial coumacs; summoning people who have already been vaccinated or even died. As for the situation at European level, Prime Minister, when we look at daily vaccination, all we can see is that Belgium is good last in daily doses, compared to the population. You're in a rigid pattern and all your health ministers decided yesterday is, "We don't change anything." We are proposing a change of strategy. At least look at our proposals. Get out of a hyper-concentrator scheme in vaccination centres; involve general practitioners. Why couldn't we? Why not involve specialist physicians for patients who are regularly treated in hospital? Why not review the terms of the summons? Why not apply a "one dose delivered = one dose administered" principle by ceasing storage? Especially since new studies have shown efficacy after a dose. We could delay the administration of the second dose of Pfizer vaccine to six weeks. Why not provide a dose for covid positive patients, as in France? This would save many doses and protect citizens more quickly. Why not unite companies in Belgium to speed up production? The best way to reconcile health security and health (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, I followed your press conference on Monday very carefully, even though it seemed rather intended for your majority partners who, throughout the weekend, had embarked on a real overbidding of the health measures to be relaxed. Still, by means of rather indigestible mathematical projections, you have explained to us that such relaxations could not be expected until April or even May. It is clear that we are walking on eggs, both in the face of different variants and in the face of increasing hospitalizations. The problem is that, in doubting any hope of a close breakdown, you have finally lost even more of the population's commitment to the measures. As much as the last Concertation Committee opened the way for a slow and progressive deconfination, today you are telling us that it will be all or nothing, whatever the vital need for prospects for the self-employed, for young people, whatever the testing and tracing tools we have at our disposal today, contrary to the first definity, whatever the health protocols drawn up by the various sectors, regardless of the intrusive nature of the health measures to fundamental freedoms but also their exceptional nature and therefore limited in time. This has been rightly pointed out by the League of Human Rights, not only with its summons to justice, but also by the European Commission, which is threatening you with legal action if you continue to ban non-essential travel. Prime Minister, who decided to base Codeco's decisions on the mathematical projections presented on Monday but also on the parameters on which they are based? Will you finally move towards risk management where the measures will no longer be guided solely by the numbers of the epidemic but also by the collateral damage of this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u10	Prime Minister, it is almost a year since our citizens have been in a situation of confinement or quasi-confinement. These are hard measures that we have supported and have one objective: to combat the worst health crisis our country has ever experienced. These measures obviously have a major impact on all our citizens, on the restrictions on individual freedoms, on the efforts that have been made over the past year, on the loneliness, the lack of social contacts and the well-being of all. From the perspective of tomorrow's Concerted Committee, it is important for us to be able to give perspectives – with a timetable – in order to gradually resume certain activities, preferably outside, with clear protocols and to evaluate according to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. It's important. This is important to us and we must do it for our young people, who are literally at the end of the roll. We have to do this for the cultural sector, which is completely under the bells and which has manifested itself massively last weekend. We must do this for the economic sectors which are still at a standstill and which no longer see the end of the tunnel. We must finally do this, and above all for the mental health of all our fellow citizens. Mental health must become the major national political priority for weeks and months to come. Prime Minister, what are the prospects you intend to propose at the level of the Concerted Committee? What are your thoughts about the social bubble of four people outside?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u11	Madam President, Prime Minister, despite the fact that draconian measures have been robbing us of our freedom for over a year, 21,742 deaths are world champions in the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. Among them were 20,431 over sixty-five, there were barely 1,311 deaths of people under 65, so the working population. Every death is one too many, I know that. However, this has led to the collapse of our entire economy, with 50,000 bankruptcies in prospect. Among the people under 25, the students, there were barely eight deaths. They were also deaths with corona, not corona. For that, we have given all our youth a learning disadvantage. We even had to get 14 of them out of the cachot. Prime Minister, I am not giving these figures to place responsibility on the old people because I myself belong to the risk group. I'll give them here because we have to learn the necessary lessons from your fearful mischief over the past year. I would also like to show that 98% of the infections in the active population do not lead to a disease. All these measures were originally taken to avoid overloading hospitals. That danger has now disappeared, but now mental health care is overloaded. Last year, between the two lockdowns, only 3.8 percent of hospitality infections and a negligible 0.2 percent of youth activities occurred. Prime Minister, I ask you to stop this fear culture. Open the catering industry, give the youth her freedom and make sure that all our pensioners are vaccinated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, the blue sky, the softness of the last few days will almost make us forget that Belgium, like the rest of Europe, is still going through this terrible pandemic. The first fruits of spring give us all the desire to see the world, to go out, to have a drink, to go to the festival, to hold our parents in arms as well. Indeed, it has already been a year that we are in the covid era, the era of restrictions. So, yes, the weariness of the Belgians is great, just like mine also at times. Yes, the ras-le-bol of the Belgians is present, just like mine also at times. But I also know that the Belgians remain in solidarity, just as I am. We can't forget the 22,000 deaths of the covid. Today, we can't believe or let us think we're out of business. Contamination and hospitalization figures are up. The variation is increasingly present in our country, although, fortunately, vaccination offers new prospects. Prime Minister, in view of the situation, the Concerted Committee to meet tomorrow will perhaps be a committee for consultation of all dangers. I am not here today to ask you to tighten or lighten the rules, to open certain sectors or not. That's not my role. It is also not within my competence. What I'm asking you, Prime Minister, is to hear the experts, the scientists. What I'm asking you is to make decisions, based on mathematical diagrams, but taking into account the distress situation of a large section of the population. Above all, whatever decisions you make tomorrow, I ask you to communicate clearly and dare the debate so that everyone can understand why the measures are taken. Let us stop, Prime Minister, from navigating on sight and give clear perspectives to citizens and sectors inactive!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u13	Madam President, Prime Minister, people are sick of it. People are tired of being locked up. People are tired of that bubble of a person. People are tired of this strategic decision your government has made. Of all the social taps, the privacy tap has been closed for six months. For other faucets such as the economy where we continue to work as impossible, as in trams, trains, buses where we are tight like sardines, no problem! But everything has been put on privacy. Prime Minister, I obviously agree with Jean-Marc Nollet when he says that people are sick of it. He's right to say it. But what I don't understand is why the same Jean-Marc Nollet, president of a party in your government, has himself asked all these people to work, to stay for six months in a bubble of one. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen! It's a double standard. People are asked to do things that don't apply to themselves. For Mr Nollet, that is no problem. He can pay a fine soon. How much is Mr. Nollet's salary? At 12,500 euros! For him, paying 250 euros is easy but the three young people who are chewing on a bench, quiet, who are taken by the police, 250 euros! The musician who played in front of 15 people in a church, 250 euros! Workers who may return 20 minutes later after curfew, 250 euros! There's no problem. The little people pay 250 euros but when you're party president in Belgium, no problem, you pay. That's not right! This double standard is not acceptable. I say it here loud and clear. Measures must be taken to alleviate the problem. You're creating a crisis. The masks are toxic. Vaccination isn't moving. Testing isn't progressing. These are the steps that must be taken, Prime Minister. That is what we need to discuss tomorrow in the Conciliation Committee. Finally, there is a need for a dignified policy to restore freedom and happiness to our people!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, while all the theatres in our country are closed by the corona measures, it seems that one theatre has remained open. And that is that of this Parliament and the federal government. It is something new every day: mouth masks that are destroyed, mouth masks that are distributed after a procession by Echternach and later turn out to be poisonous and the vaccination campaign that is already at risk of becoming an equally large flop. How do you expect the citizens to continue to take your measures seriously? How do you expect, among other things, the restaurants, fitness centers and ice-cream vents, whose bank account is empty and who flirt with bankruptcy, to take you seriously? How do you expect millions of Flemings who have been living in isolation for a year can barely come out and crave a perspective and want to take you seriously with their bubble again at café or restaurant? One party leader from the majority says that the catering industry should be open, while you, Prime Minister, and the Minister of Health, do not offer any perspective. This government merely shows that it does not speak out of one mouth. Why do you not trust our people, our catering, events and many other sectors? They are ready to take up life carefully and step by step. Today, Horeca has presented Flanders with a concrete plan that will show them to be in the starting blocks. Prime Minister, what is the government's position on the reopening of the catering industry? Will you, as a liberal, wait until they're all bankrupt? What will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to have one year of coordination measures. These measures weigh heavily, financially, but certainly psychologically. A lot of people are completely out of it. The temptation is to come here today with a big drum saying that there must be relaxation, but I am not going to do that. That may sound good, but it is up to you, the government, the GEMS expert group, to properly analyse the figures in the Consultation Committee tomorrow and to determine the room for manoeuvre. This is not easy, because it is about the numbers of hospitalisations, but also about the pace of vaccinations. If risk analysis allows, I would ask the government to give a perspective on the Conciliation Committee tomorrow, especially to all those people who are mentally deep in this terrible period. View of a calendar for the adaptation of measures, with all the reservations that are needed, but people need it. This week I heard the story of a grandmother in Ostend who lives alone at home and is physically heavily dependent. She's begging for a little more contact with her family, because now she's also crashing mentally. We also know the testimonies of the students and the young people. If the figures allow us to relax wisely, Prime Minister, I would like to stress the word if, this time, after reopening the hairdressers, we would like to ask you to go fully for the mental well-being of people, to allow a little more freedom in meetings and meeting, especially in the outdoors where the risk is lower. So many people beg for a little more contact with family, with friends. It's their turn now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u16	Prime Minister, a warm sun literally brings us back in motion. It is of course nicer when we can enjoy that beautiful weather together with others. Beautiful weather also makes more possible effectively, it creates hope and perspective, but also a call for freedom. The question is how are we really going to turn that perspective into action and freedom? What I hear in Parliament today is a competition to bid and ask for relaxation. That is what I hear here today, and yet everyone in the Chamber wants to return to normal life as soon as possible. Everyone wants grandparents to be able to hug their grandchildren again, that there are terraces and that we can go to a festival this summer. That's what everyone's asking. The question is not whether we want to do so, but how we will achieve it. That offer has nothing to do with that question, nothing, because it only makes us stop and people get sour, because we simply won't be able to live up to that offer. It is important to take that into account. There is no point in spreading large numbers or wild plans if no one tells us how they will be implemented effectively. Of course, that's where the shoe pinches. We have already seen what it will collapse into if we relax quickly and unthinkingly. That has plunged us into a second wave after the summer and we are still in it. We need to think very carefully about how we turn the perspective into real action. That's what it's about. It is not about bingo in Parliament, but about a roadmap in which it is very clear at what point in time which steps can be taken in a safe way. That is what our people need, and that is what the Consultative Committee will be doing tomorrow, because, Mr Prime Minister, people follow the rules, no matter how difficult, but it is time that the rules also followed the people. Such a step-by-step plan in which it is very clear when something is possible safely in the outdoors at the right time, could make a difference. Will you be there tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u17	Prime Minister, in the meantime, we've been a year since we went into lockdown. Meanwhile, the schools closed, people had to restrict their activities and we were no longer allowed to travel. It's been like an eternity since we've been able to grab our family. At the moment we see that, unfortunately, there is no perspective yet. The people are going through it. Our young people are also having a hard time. There have been enough shouts from young people because they do not feel heard. I am not going on a populist tour today, because I am aware that the figures are not optimal today. Public health always comes first for me, but it is wider than just the biomedical aspect. We must also have the courage to think about psychological well-being and the socio-economic factor. I ask today not to lose the team, Prime Minister. You have asked 11 million citizens to form a team. Today, both in Parliament and abroad, I see that people no longer think the rules are feasible and viable. The worst thing that can happen to us in times of war is not forming a team anymore. So we must not lose people by our rules. We must not leave people behind with promises, and above all we must ensure that they are motivated. That is why I am asking for concrete things. It is particularly difficult for young people: since 8 January they have heard that there will be a perspective. My question is very specific: how will you reconcile the figures we all know today and of which we are all aware with possible relaxations? I trust good policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u18	Madam President, Prime Minister, young people are beginning to find it very difficult to deal with the measures. And 'young people' we have to see as in an album by Tintin, everyone from 7 to 77 years old. The 51-year-olds are having a hard time with it, especially when they run a government party. Then they even start saying publicly that they no longer follow the measures. That brings me straight to my first question. Can't your coalition partners within the government go to you with their criticism, which forces them to engage the outside guard? Has your government bubble burst this week or the last few weeks? After all, we see that there are quite a few contradictory messages coming from your team. May I remind you once again that the figures are rising? It's been said here a few times. You understand, of course, that not only the young people, but the whole population is wondering why the figures are rising while we still have strict measures. We have been in this situation for months now. Remember, for a lot of people, the second round starts after one birthday. Things they've given up, they might have to give up for a second time, like an Easter vacation. That's very demotivating. Can you tell us what effect the measures taken in recent months have had, both positive and negative? After all, it is not just about the effects on the number of corona infections, but also about mental well-being. There's trouble. No one will dispute that. Action is needed. No one will dispute that, but the big question on the table is whether the measures have an effective impact on the problem. You must give the people more information about this coherence. What measures have helped and what measures have perhaps been symbolic, as one of your ministers once said?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The questions about the vaccinations will be answered by the Minister of Health, Frank Vandenbroucke. Friday's meeting of the Consultation Committee comes at a difficult time. No one will deny that. Just as we have smelled in the last few days of spring, we have smelled freedom, after having all had to undergo very difficult, very compelling measures for almost one year. We had to go through these measures because we are convinced that we have to take care of each other, and that taking care of each other is the only way to take care of ourselves. At this difficult moment, at the beginning of this week, I gave the scientists, the experts, the opportunity to give them their insights about where we are at the moment. Although for the first time the experts have made it very clear that it is a perfectly feasible map to carry out significant relaxations in April-May in a safe way, they have also said that we must be particularly careful in the coming weeks, during the month of March. If we now take ill-thought-out, reckless decisions, then we are putting the perspective they have given us at risk. That is the situation we are in. The perspective is there. And it is not vague: it is during the months of April and May that it will be possible to do so, but only on condition that we remain calm and cool in the coming weeks. Does that mean that in the coming weeks, during the month of March, nothing is possible and that we should confine ourselves to the measures that are in force today? The answer is clearly no. We must opt for a prudent course, a course which at the same time ensures that people who are in a difficult situation can retain their capacity. This means that we must take into account the uncertainties we are facing today. Those uncertainties are no one's fault. All we can do is take it into account. In the decisions we make, we absolutely need to take into account mental well-being, capacity and support for people who are in a particularly difficult situation, but everything must be done safely and responsibly. Ladies and gentlemen, today we must show that we can keep our heads down. Right now, we have to show that we have enough composure. I'm counting on all of you to prove it. We all have a huge responsibility. People are watching us. We all have a huge responsibility to show, in a difficult situation, that we remain cool and that we are able to make the right decisions. We must not be tempted by recklessness now. That would be the biggest mistake we can make. We're not doing anyone a favor today with recklessness. On the contrary, what we need to do now is make decisions that are responsible, make decisions that are safe, but also make decisions that support people who are struggling today. This is the core for Friday: to be safe, not to be reckless and at the same time to support people who are having a hard time. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthen the strength, that's possible. I am confident that the various governments that will sit together tomorrow will be able to make responsible and human decisions, but above all that they can make safe decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u20	Prime Minister, all Belgians are dreaming of a deconfination. All of you! They aspire to reunite with their families, to see their children resume their activities and to young people on the way to higher schools or universities. In addition, sectors such as culture and several economic activities are dying. After all the promises of the parties that make up your majority, I can assure you that the citizens are eagerly waiting for the Codeco of tomorrow to know what, after the words, will be decided in the acts. Your government's job is to make deconfinity possible. The way out of the debunking, Prime Minister, is vaccination. The sooner fragile people get vaccinated, the faster we can get rid of them. However, Prime Minister, you have not provided any response on this matter. In this case, Belgium can and must do much better. It's your job and your responsibility. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you, although you have not answered my questions at all. In doing so, I still believe that your strategy is dogmatic, when it should be pragmatic. You can no longer compare the contamination thresholds with those of last June, thus ignoring vaccination, bankruptcies, young people dropping out or domestic violence. You can no longer rely on measures that violate our freedoms when they are challenged by the League of Human Rights, the European Commission, the Council of State and even by members of your majority. You can no longer rest the full weight of this exit from the crisis, and therefore the realization of the perspectives you have mentioned, on the only citizens and sectors that are literally dying. This exit from the crisis is up to you to assume this by regaining popular support through measures debated in Parliament, by accelerating our vaccination campaign and by ensuring a gradual and safe resumption of the various sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u22	Prime Minister, I thank you for your answers and for the capes you have given with regard to tomorrow. You spoke of a very important notion on which I would like to return, namely political responsibility. It's fundamental! Two axes seem particularly important to me. The first axis is not to release everything overnight in an unwise manner, while proposing a course, a horizon or, I hope, a timetable. It's important! The second area on which I would also like to stress is that we must relay to Parliament, in our parliamentary committees, but also to the government and the Codeco of tomorrow, the suffering of certain categories of people: the most fragile, the young people for whom we know how difficult it is, those belonging to certain sectors of the economy that are suffering, such as culture, horeca and events. These sufferings, these mental health difficulties must also be able to be relayed here to Parliament. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u23	Prime Minister, I am not asking for recklessness, I only ask for five minutes of political courage. You will go from here to the Berlaymont building and you will meet someone from your political family, someone we have appointed President of Europe. Just ask them there to fulfil their obligations. After all, you are always playing the blind eye to Europe. They must therefore ensure that the deliveries they have ordered are made. Next time you do not have to come here and say that we must be careful and that everything must remain closed. Once people are vaccinated, as in Israel and England, it's over. So I ask for five minutes of political courage, not recklessness. You'll be there in 15 minutes. Ask me this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u24	Prime Minister, tomorrow's Consultation Committee will be followed by the 11 million members of your team. A coherent strategy will be needed. Then, and above all, a broad debate here in Parliament will be necessary in order to make the measures understood and to enable the population to accede to them. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put a stop to uncoordinated communications, disparate between men and women politicians. How do you want us to find ourselves there when one request that restaurants reopen on a certain date, another request that the social bubble be widened, that another say that they do not respect the rules because they are untenable? It has to stop. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority and of the opposition, today it is our responsibility to stand together, to be exemplary, to be coherent and to speak with one voice. That is the price, ladies and gentlemen, of victory, and that is our duty!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u25	Prime Minister, recklessness? I'm talking about hopelessness, about anger. Evil on the part of the population, on the part of young people today, who simply see no perspective. Also anger with the artists, who want to see perspective and can finally play back for the public. That's what it's about, not recklessness. I've been interviewing you about your strategy, which is mainly based on the bubble of one. That's where the problem is. You're too weak on all the other lines. Have you seen the estimates of the vaccinations? We left until September 2024, come on! What are we doing? The masks you ordered aren't even in conformity. Sources research, has anyone heard any mention of that in the last few weeks? There are problems in all these areas. So we need to intervene again in people's private lives. Prime Minister, take the real problem into your hands. Stop the dependence of the big pharma on the vaccination and take measures, now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, you actually say the same thing here every week. As everything turns square, you walk in circles, because you are indecisive. Don't you dare look people in the eye. Dare to look at the catering companies, event organisations, fitness centers and many other companies that will disappear through your political theatre if it takes a long time. They're at their wits' end, they're in sacks and ashes. They will do everything in their power to re-open safely. Dare also look into the eyes of the many Flemings who want to return to a more normal life. You speak of a perspective, but there is no one today. Have faith in the people, Prime Minister. Show empathy, show respect and stand up for our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u27	Prime Minister, you were quite right to speak of a turning point. We are in a precarious situation and need to strike a good balance. A third wave would be a tragedy and would once again tighten the armor around our lives and our economy very hard. For many people and organisations, including in the cultural sector, including businesses, this would be the straw. We can't make mistakes. At the same time, I think that we can have a normal democratic debate here in Parliament on which groups of people are the most in need at the moment. Tomorrow it will be up to you to make that decision on the Conciliation Committee. We are telling you today that this crisis is deeply affecting many people. So choose clear priorities. As far as we are concerned, they are crystal clear: measures to break the isolation of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u28	Prime Minister, I am pleased to hear that you too would like to take up normal life as soon as possible. We are in an absurd debate. It is not at all a question of which group wants to relax. I'd rather have them all, just like you, probably. It's about how we're gonna do that. You have said very clearly what the fastest way is: to keep a cool head and to believe in the strategy ahead, to ensure that we all do this together, in a constructive way. There is no point in losing us in any bid or contradictions, one who feels that too much is being relaxed and the other too little. There's no point in that. That's not the point at all, and we're not helping anyone. It's about the strategy that we have to deliver together. Prime Minister, I have listened to you very carefully. Tomorrow we will work effectively on that perspective. It is important that the roadmap is put in place, that it is clear to everyone and that there can be real perspective for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u29	Prime Minister, we heard you very well. I fully support and support your plea. On the contrary, to many people in this Chamber, we obviously believe that we should avoid a third lockdown. I would ask you, however, to correct the moral compass with the following relaxations and to think about the well-being of our young people and the mental well-being of our citizens. We have already had an opening in the economic sectors: hairdressers and contact professions can be reopened. Please consider the welfare of our citizens in the next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, you have not answered the question of which measures work and which do not work and are rather a disadvantage. You have said that we must remain calm. I must say, I find it amazing how calm you remain. You are in charge of a binding government, and two party presidents are against your policy. You are a convinced European, and Europe is ticking your fingers because you are not proportionate. You're a liberal, and the League of Human Rights is taking you to court. You are a swinging government, but the most swinging generation no longer follows you because you cannot convince her what measures are right or wrong. You are also a party of entrepreneurs, and you are making it extremely difficult for many entrepreneurs today. I am surprised how calm you remain when you see that your 11 million-dollar team crumbles so quickly and decreases in number.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u31	Wage negotiations are going down for the umpteenth time. Then the trade unions and employers' organizations come back to your door and the government knocks to find a solution. This is a shift of responsibility. The social partners have a responsibility to reach an agreement and should try to do so as much as possible. We must also be reasonable in this respect. Many organisations criticise the 1996 wage bill, and I understand that, but that law is there for a reason. Mr Hedebouw will probably say that free negotiations must be allowed everywhere. In our country, however, there is an automatic indexation. All wages have risen by 2.6% this year. There are palliative increases in all sectors and increases after individual negotiations. Then there's something national on top of that. If the negotiations on this matter are to be abandoned, then all the arrangements must be abandoned, including those of the automatic index. Then we speak of a different context, by the way. Here we do not have it; here we have a system of regulated wage negotiations. This means that one cannot go too far. That's not because people want to make it difficult for employees. Of course, we want people to earn more, but we don't want one person's wage raise to mean firing the other. In an economy, if wages and costs explode, a lot of people will lose their jobs. We do not want that, of course. The negotiations must now be conducted. That didn't work out again. An agreement must be reached on the implementation of the welfare envelope and, at the same time, on the payment of wages. How will you deal with this, given that the social partners are back at your door? The coalition agreement itself clearly states that the framework of the 1996 law is the starting point. Certain elements can be considered and examined in the agreement. The 1996 law is clear. You must remind those partners of their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u32	Mr. Secretary, corona hits everyone, but not everyone equally hard. Self-employed and SMEs deserve our solidarity. They can hardly survive, but how different is the situation in supermarkets and other sectors? The employees there can barely cope with the pressure. They have kept our society running for over a year and are committed every day. The employers also make good money from that. It would be unfair if those employees could not benefit from it. The legislative framework is clear and everyone, including the workers in the sectors that have fallen silent, understands that there is little margin for wage increases in some sectors. Our economy is characterised by unprecedented distortions. Those who suffer must be spared, but those who prosper should still take responsibility. The wage negotiations stopped yesterday. For us, in the sectors that flourish, the acidic attitude of some employers should not be an obstacle. We are still convinced that if the social partners work together for a fair result, they can succeed in doing so and allow workers who do their best every day to progress by showing solidarity with each other, without unnecessary burdens on workers and employers. Minister, if your pressure or your support is needed, then today is the time to make you stand up for it. What will you do to remove social dialogue and wage negotiations? Moreover, the social partners accept that there is a distortion (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u33	Madam President, Minister, in the history of our country, the social partners have always played a key role. Social dialogue is a solid and creative basis for carrying out the necessary reforms. This social dialogue is, at all levels of negotiation, an element in ensuring the stability and legitimacy of the reforms undertaken. The quality of the social dialogue deserves constant attention, especially in this climate of health and economic crisis in which workers and companies have paid and continue to pay a heavy price, despite the many support measures enacted. As you know, after the absence of an interprofessional agreement in 2011-2012 and a veto on wage increases, we were pleased to see, during the last three interprofessional negotiations between 2015 and 2020, that the Group of 10 had resumed negotiations and the conclusion of the draft interprofessional agreements, both on the wage margin and on the allocation of the welfare envelope. The lack of interprofessional agreement would be a very negative signal. It would be very negative, on the one hand, because, in the context of this crisis, we need a social peace and a constant dialogue between representatives of companies and representatives of workers. It would be very negative, on the other hand, because the government agreement provides for ambitious reforms, particularly in terms of well-being at work and non-discrimination. To achieve them, we necessarily need a social dialogue. We must deplore the fact that the negotiations are laborious, dusty and in danger. After three months of negotiations, progress has so far been insignificant. The desire to succeed in socio-economic recovery imposes the sense of responsibility of each partner, as well as loyalty and serene consultation. Minister, my questions are simple. What initiatives have you taken and will you take in the next few hours to facilitate social dialogue? Are you going to make an attempt to mediate between the employer's bench and the union bench?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u34	Madam Chair, Minister, do we realize today that there are bosses who think that wages should not be increased? Those same bosses who put aside to pay their shareholders and who are going to find the unions saying, "Hey, guys, you have to tighten your belt, times are tough." We can't start a negotiation today by saying, "We have nothing, we can't move." The crisis of the covid has shown us that solidarity is the pillar of our society. We must reconnect with this spirit and get out of the straitjacket imposed by the amendment to the 1996 Act. By imposing a binding wage standard, we imprison negotiations, we close the door to the voice of the workers. Today, this carcan is intolerable. We know that not all companies are housed in the same brand. Some sectors have made huge profits, thanks to the workers. We could mention several of them, but I am thinking in particular of large-scale distribution. Staff have been constantly working, to the detriment of their health. Now they too must be able to benefit from all these benefits. These workers are not just there to drink and do the big back. Minister, they are the ones who are driving our economy. Today, it is unthinkable for us socialists to ask them to consent to one more sacrifice. The values of socialism are those of social justice, solidarity, the sharing of wealth. Today, it's fair that bosses put more in the balance. Putting more means accepting flexibility to allow for wage increases where possible. Minister, my question is very simple. Your role is to give social consultation a chance, but you are already doing so. How do you intend to facilitate discussions and reopen a dialog window?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we are standing here again. Etappe two failed. Yesterday, a party didn't come to the table. Employers are concerned about the future and how they will overcome the crisis. Of the companies, 95% of them are declining and we will lose three years in economic terms. This also means that there are sectors, and I would very much like to confirm that they are doing well, but they also have very high costs. However, I also see a great deal of concern for the workers. It is feared that the welfare-proofness of benefits for inactive people will be held hostage by the absence of an agreement on the active population. Minister, a few weeks ago you told me in committee and in the plenum that you and the government believe in social dialogue and that the government fully supports it. At the same time, however, the ping-pong goes on all the time by colleagues in Parliament and in the government who keep saying in plenary and in committees that they want to revise the 1996 law, that they want an indicative wage standard, and so on. This has just been demonstrated by the questions raised by my colleagues. As a result, the matter will come back to the government every time and the social dialogue will not be given a chance, as long as the government does not speak clearly. There is a coalition agreement, Minister. Agreements have been made within that framework. Will you remain within the framework of the government agreement and will that be the signal you will send to the social partners? What will happen to the welfare security of benefits? I'd like more clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u36	Madam President, Minister, we are standing here again. You're playing with fire. You're playing with thousands of jobs. You are playing with the incomes of many families, which you risk pushing into poverty. After all, the government agreement states that the wage standard must be maintained. After four months of purple-green, however, we now know what the coalition agreement is really worth. The largest party of the current government, the boss of the current government, your party, the PS, dares and succeeds in bringing forward a bill to release the wage standard and derail wages, regardless of the government agreement. The panic among your colleagues in the majority speaks volumes, of course. What is wrong is that your party's proposal not only exposes the hopeless divisions of the current government, but also, above all, that wage bargaining is torpedoed again, twice. I've said it before and it's confirmed over and over again. More than ever, the trade unions are sure to be victorious with the present purple-green government. The consequences of letting go of the wage standard will not be perceptible. After all, where the Swedish Government has managed to eliminate the wage handicap, which has praised our jobs from the market, in relation to the countries around us, the current PS government is apparently using the U-turn to increase unemployment. That's very bad. The release of the wage standard will once again increase our country's wage handicap and will push tens of thousands of people back into unemployment, which cannot really be the intention. For weeks now, I have been asking you to clarify clearly here and now to the social partners, in particular to the trade unions, the fact that the standard of pay cannot be met and that the prosperity in our country, the competitiveness of our companies and employment must not be put under pressure in the social dialogue. You haven't taken up your responsibility in this matter for weeks. Minister, I am now giving you a third chance in the present plenary. Can you make it very clear once and for all here and now that the wage standard of 0.4% cannot be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u37	Mr. Secretary, I was at the trade union campaign this morning. I have seen many workers there, the working class, the representatives of those who made the country run during this crisis. It was said to me there: 'Raoul, ask what is going on up there with the affair of an increase of 0.4%'. There was a delegation of 15 women from the rest homes. Do you know how much is 0.4% per month for them? That's 9 euros gross more. Is that serious? I always hear Mr Lachaert talking about competitiveness. Here are the figures for certain sectors: Carrefour: 17,9% increase in profits; Delhaize: 18 % increase in dividends, company capital; ArcelorMittal in Ghent: 300 million euros to the parent company; IKEA Belgium: 49 million euros profit, Umicore: 536 million euros profit; BASF: 2.7 billion dividends; Volvo Cars where there was action today: 3 billion euros to the shareholders. What is that in this country that workers in all these sectors cannot get more than 0.4%? Mr Lachaert, you say that the social partners are knocking, but you have the key to the negotiations. You have drafted the 1996 law, which imposes a ban on getting more than 0.4%. That's the problem. There is no freedom at all. Liberals should be in favour of the freedom of negotiation. Let supply and demand play, but that is not the case at all. There is no supply and demand, only the intervention of politics. Minister, I took an initiative with my comrade Marc Goblet. I want to open that up to everyone here. I have a concrete proposal to make sure that the wage standard becomes indicative rather than mandatory. Minister, do you agree that the wage standard should be indicative? There I am...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the social dialogue has made Belgium great. It is particularly important during this severe crisis that trade unions and employers should be able to conclude agreements. Mrs Muylle, the current government has indeed put social dialogue back into the centre of policy. That too is extremely important. Mr Lachaert, it is indeed primarily up to the social partners to assume their responsibilities. That is also extremely important. The social partners have already shown that they can still conclude agreements, with the collective agreement on teleworking during the corona crisis, vaccination leave and this week the social agreement on education. The interprofessional agreement is, as I have already said, an important but also a difficult moment in social cooperation. Things are not new but, of course, the economic situation, the economic uncertainties and the way in which this crisis has struck and struck sectors, subsectors and even companies asymmetrically make this negotiation more difficult today. It must be added – and I do not hide – that the way in which the 1996 law was strengthened or tightened is according to, in 2017. It is clear that these circumstances make these negotiations more difficult today than they were yesterday. The Prime Minister and I have a lot of contacts with the social partners, both formally and informally. Thanks to these contacts, two meetings between the social partners have been held in recent days. Unfortunately, as you know, yesterday afternoon's sitting could not be successfully concluded. The employers have written to the ministers of the nuclear cabinet asking for consultation. I want to be clear to you, and I would point out that no partner has formally and definitively broken the negotiations on the allocation of the welfare envelope or the interprofessional agreement. Neither of the two benches has requested the mediation of the government as provided by law. Of course, we have regular contacts with the social partners with the Prime Minister, and since yesterday afternoon I have multiplied the various contacts with the two banks and with the President of the Group of 10. As you have pointed out, the government agreement provides for the retention of the 1996 law, but it also provides for the possibility of using circulars to find and ensure this balance between the competitiveness of our companies and the strengthening of the purchasing power of workers. This government agreement, to which I am particularly committed, also makes it clear that the use of these circulars will be carried out in consultation with the social partners. Again, this is an important responsibility for the social partners, and of course I will use these circulars to make it possible to give some air to this negotiation and, above all, to ensure that negotiated and sealed agreements between the social partners can be implemented and implemented. This is the role of the government at this stage of the procedure, and this is the role of the Minister of Labour and Social Concertation at this stage of the procedure. I am not a blissfully optimistic person, but I believe in social consultation and, following my contacts this afternoon, I remain convinced that agreements are possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mr Hedebouw, there are, of course, companies that make profits. That should still be wrong. Otherwise, there wouldn't be much prosperity in our country. On the other hand, all these companies, all those employers who are bleeding today, are suffering. We have now released the moratorium on bankruptcy. You'll see what that means after this corona period. You mention the companies that have made a profit, but on the other hand all those people who are struggling and who are doing business today and giving work to others. We do not want to push them into the depths again by now making all kinds of concessions that are economically impossible. I believe that the coalition agreement is clear in itself. There is no point in the social partners constantly knocking on the door of the government to change the law. The government can negotiate in a reasonable way, mediate, to find solutions together. In the past, it has sometimes been successful. If it failed, it would have been possible to find solutions that are good for people's purchasing power (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. But let's face it, the wage standard law works with averages. The real economy has never been so far from the averages. There is a large part of the economy that is frozen, and there is another part of the economy that is throbbing. The sp.a believes that one should look at the needs of all parties and that solidarity should always link both sides. We think that's possible. This can be done with the necessary creativity, as you said. I would therefore like to see the strength of all the parties for the coming weeks and to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers. The 1996 law, which makes it possible to agree on the valorisation of wages in addition to automatic indexations and baremic increases, was reformed under the previous legislature. As I have said, this reform has enabled the last interprofessional agreements to be incorporated. Social dialogue has thus been able to take place fully. We may or may not agree, but the law is the law. We must respect her! I read that some colleagues are joining in a desire to reform this 1996 law. At the outset, I warn that neither my group nor myself will support such an initiative which, moreover, seems to me to bring – in this context of a health and economic crisis – more sand grains than gear oil. We therefore call for the social partners to meet again, as the deadline is close.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u42	Minister, I hear your answer. We will obviously be at your side because we are on the side of those who are looking for solutions. [[We're not just "Y'a to." We act and take responsibility.]] We Socialists are all on the side of the workers. They're exhausted, out of breath. Their voices must be heard. Social peace is now threatened by deaf employers. There must be opportunities for social dialogue, from latitude to negotiation and for wage increases. It is high time to offer opportunities to those who hold our economy at arm's length. But of course we are counting on you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I know better than anyone that the social partners can make social agreements, since we made a lot of them last year, for example in terms of well-being at work and temporary unemployment. In each of those files there was unity of command from the government, the framework was clear. I hope that this will also be the case in the coming weeks and that there will be no more diffuse noises. It is clear to us that the framework within which we have to work today is the 1996 law. There are possibilities in there. Moreover, this is in line with the coalition agreement. I therefore hope that we can find solutions within that framework. Mr Hedebouw, I know that you very much like to refer to the EUR 1,700 and the supermarkets. I just want to tell you that next year is not about a few euros or a cup of coffee, but about EUR 54, index plus wage standard, which employees receive every month.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u44	Minister, you have been putting the ball in the social partners' camp for weeks, but you do not seem to realise that these social partners, especially the trade unions, have already kicked the ball back twice, in the middle of your face. Apparently that's not gonna happen. I understand, of course, that Mr Lachaert, with his buttocks squeezed, is still advocating social dialogue. There is one point that you have made clear: for you, the 1996 law is a good thing. The Liberals undoubtedly know that if it comes to the table of government, they will lose it. That is particularly regrettable for the thousands of jobs, those thousands of families, which you are risking again in unemployment and poverty. We have been asking questions from the opposition for months, but the fact that five government parties are suddenly asking questions speaks volumes. Once and for all, you have poured more oil on the waves by your unclearness about the law of 1996. Finally, let me make it clear that this wage standard cannot be affected. That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u45	Minister, I was present this morning during the union actions and I felt the great determination of the workers not to accept this 0.4% carcan. I was very touched by this testimony on the podium of two young workers from the MediaMarkt group. Do you know how much they earn a month? They receive 2,300 euros gross per month by working full-time in this company. Do you find that normal? I understood their anger: "We need freedom to have more." The aim is not to negotiate the same thing everywhere in all companies. This is freedom, liberals. Do you think that trade union organisations do not know the realities of the field? We have to give them that freedom. That is why we must stop the endless discussions. We need action. We tried, with Marc Goblet, to take a constructive step. I felt a lot of enthusiasm this morning in the ranks of the FGTB and the CSC about this common approach. They are not the same parties, but at least we are taking a constructive joint step, that of proposing an indicative norm to allow this freedom of negotiation. You all speak here in general (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u46	Minister, the vaccination strategy is essential to a successful return to the freedoms to which we all aspire and we have no right to error. The common goal of the government, Parliament and experts is to give priority to immunizing people over the age of 65 and the most vulnerable in order to avoid serious forms and to avoid overloading our hospitals. The question then lies in how to invite people with co-morbidity while respecting privacy and safeguarding medical confidentiality. The way in which the data is collected, processed and stored encourages us to exercise the strictest vigilance. The Data Protection Authority puts us on alert. The Council of State reminds us of the seriousness of interference with privacy, the need for justification, the need for proportionality. In other words, even if the objectives are legitimate, the end does not justify all the means. Minister, with respect to the vaccination schedule, when will people over the age of 65 and the most vulnerable be vaccinated? Can you give us a precise picture of the quantities of vaccine ordered, received, stored and administered? Is it acceptable to invite citizens on the basis of a cross-check of health data from medical records and mutual societies without the consent of patients and in violation of professional secrecy? Who has made the decision to use an algorithm for this purpose? What role does the Information Security Committee play? Why is there no greater reliance on doctors, who can appreciate the usefulness of receiving the vaccine for their most fragile, well-informed and consenting patients? Finally, will you adjust the vaccination strategy according to the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u47	Madam President, Minister, first there was your wager, then the imminent shortage of syringes, the forgotten signature and the completely passive attitude of the federal government in the European purchase of vaccines. The European train in which you and the government stepped sputtered, but it also turns out that you really got into the last car. Unfortunately, we are celebrating the first anniversary of the lockdown in two weeks' time. Our economy is at a standstill and most of the population has really had it. The vaccines must get us out of this crisis, and that is your responsibility, Minister. That must be your priority number one. You should probably sleep with it and get up with it. The FAGG, the federal body under your jurisdiction, advises you in the purchase of the vaccines and it was aware that Belgium could purchase more vaccines. My question is simple. Did the FAGG inform you that a number of European Member States did not buy up all the vaccines and that Belgium therefore had the opportunity to buy more vaccines, just as Denmark did, which is now at the top of the peloton? Denmark has more vaccines and can also vaccinate more people. In fact, you should have known by now, because I told you in January. In January I said that there was something wrong with the figures and that Denmark and the Netherlands received proportionally more vaccines than our country. You told me at the time that you would check it out. I have a clear question, Minister. Did Belgium, yes or no, miss the opportunity under your responsibility to purchase more vaccines more quickly and speed up the vaccination strategy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u48	Madam President, Minister, in a study published in The Lancet that surveyed care providers for the development of antibodies to corona, almost all infected individuals developed antibodies. These antibodies provided protection against recontamination in 85% of cases. This raises once again the question of whether vaccination of already infected persons is necessary. I asked this question in committee and you replied that it was rather cumbersome to check it. You were actually kind of spinning around the pot. Mr Minister, in the light of the shortage of vaccines, I would like to ask you this question again. Shouldn't we check the people who have already been infected for antibodies? Maybe they shouldn't be vaccinated? Can't we tell the general practitioners to check the box at COVID-19 with each blood test? This would give us an insight into who already has antibodies. Why isn't that done?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u49	Madam Chair, Minister, the vaccination campaign is so messy that, at times, I don't know if I should laugh at it or cry at it, so dramatic. You said we were going to vaccinate at the rate of delivery, but even that, you are unable to. This week, people who died were invited to be vaccinated, and people who had already received the vaccine. The result of all this is empty vaccination centres. We even decided not to send e-mails anymore, but to send paper mails. In the 21st century, here in Belgium, we are unable to send invitations properly to the people concerned. The second problem is, of course, that we are still dependent, for deliveries, on a few pharmaceutical companies which, unfortunately, think more about their profits than really producing more and more vaccines to end this pandemic. Six months ago, we were the only ones calling for the vaccine to become a public good, but this week, I saw that it was moving a lot. We heard the release of Ecolo, with a beautiful white card that calls for making the vaccine a public good. At the PS, I saw a resolution in the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, and at the sp.a., I saw the same thing. We need, not words, but actions. You have already answered here that the lifting of patents, the enforcement of binding licences is not an immediate solution. That's not true, of course! On the one hand, because we are facing a process of several months. On the other hand, do you know, in world production today, what production capacity is used for covid vaccines? According to Oxfam figures, only 43% of production capacity is allocated to covid vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u50	Mrs Merckx, your time has expired. Minister, you have five minutes to answer questions. As you have noticed, we strictly respect speaking time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u51	Madam President, before I comment on some critical reservations and frustrations, which are very understandable among, for example, people who expected to be vaccinated and then receive a postponement notice, I would like to stress first of all that vaccination will give us the way out of the crisis. We share that expectation and must continue to say that the vaccination campaign is the way out of the misery, just as we must continue to say that we are also using good vaccines, vaccines that all the results show that they are indeed effective, whether it is AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna. No one would have thought six months ago that so many countries around the world would be vaccinated today. We are seeing an extremely rapid development. But that rapid development comes with many uncertainties, many surprises, positive but also negative, and setbacks. We must therefore constantly assess whether we are working properly. Firstly, there are problems of a practical nature, which we hope will be childhood diseases, such as wrong addresses. That error has not happened massively, but it is extremely annoying and the problem needs to be investigated and corrected. Children's diseases in the practical effects are also addressed, which in itself is no excuse. Secondly, there are problems with the strategy itself and, thirdly, with deliveries. Let me first deal with a few elements of strategy. I shall first address Mrs Sneppe's punctual question, which actually transcends the possibilities of this type of short answer. Mrs. Sneppe, I haven't gone round the pot at all. You must be able to accept an answer with scientific nuance. If you call that a waffle, the dialogue is difficult. I'll give the answer again. Who is infected naturally develops antibodies, but that is not permanent. Besides, we sometimes have to deal with re-infections. At the moment it is unclear how long immunity lasts after infection with COVID-19 and the extent to which it depends on the severity of the infection. That is one of the reasons why we do not yet take into account previous COOVID-19 infection at the time of vaccination. We want to provide stable and long-term protection. So we are not sure, medically scientifically, whether we can afford to give just one injection, when the package leaflet says that we need to give two injections to someone who is already infected. There are extensive scientific studies on this subject and we follow them up. We work as far as possible on the basis of scientific certainty and evidention. If we do not have them, we will not deviate from what the instructions on the package leaflets of the vaccines say. That would not only be risky for the people, but would also give us a huge problem of political and legal liability if we thought we could deviate from what the instructions on vaccines say. You are actually suggesting that we should be able to do that easily, but we should not just do that; then we should be very sure. This also applies to the problem of whether we give people who are already infected but one or two injections of a vaccine, if the package leaflet says so. We can have a long and important scientific debate on this. That's not round the pot, Mrs. Sneppe. That is the nuance and complexity of medical science on the table, asking for some patience regarding the development of the evidention with the insights that grow during vaccination and, above all, asking for caution when it comes to health and actually matters of life or death for countless people. As far as the strategy is concerned, and particularly in response to Mr Bacquelaine's question, let me say that the choice of giving priority to people who are more vulnerable than others because of co-morbidity, in the event of a shortage, is an ethical imperative, and that requires an organization. As time is short, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no violation of medical confidentiality. It is totally wrong to state here that there is a violation of medical confidentiality at the procedural level. This procedure was also discussed with representatives of the medical profession in a Task Force working group, including ABSyM, GBO, Domus Medica, SSMG, etc. In other words, organizations, particularly on the francophone side, that say there is a big problem have been associated with the development of this solicitation strategy. They cannot claim the opposite since they have participated in the work of the working group. On the other hand, it is false to say that medical secrecy is violated. That's not right! We're going to create a database with names of people that we want to invite first. Of course, all legal precautions must be taken, in accordance with the opinions that are normally critical and prudent of the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. Therefore, we must stop this debate based on statements that are absolutely incorrect. And those who have been involved in the work of the working group that has developed this element of the strategy must admit it. This does not mean – I want to be conciliatory – that we must not continue the dialogue to identify problems and see how to respond to them. Finally, Mrs Depoorter, are we Europeans completely passive? Not at all. We are also knocking on the table at European level to rightly complain about the constant changes in the liver schedules and the uncertainties associated with them. Is it possible that, in the short term, countries will receive more vaccines by buying up surpluses? No, that's not possible. Indeed, we have not chosen a strategy whereby we would buy up surplus stocks. You may disagree, but one thing is certain. Those countries that have done so will not get them in the front of the campaign, but they will get them in the back. So they don't get it right away, but they get it at a later stage. We have considered that this is not interesting. We can discuss this, but that is the opinion we have made together with the health ministers. We are trying to order what we can order pro rata and so far we are not interested in buying up surpluses because they come only at the end of the journey. As far as the figures are concerned, I would suggest that we discuss them in greater depth on another occasion. I have no indication that we would be disadvantaged in the purchases we made.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u52	Minister, you spoke for three minutes too long. May I ask you to respect your speaking time?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u53	Minister, I persist in saying that the cross-checking of data from mutual organizations, which are generally politicized bodies, and coming from medical records are algorithms that allow people to be called together without their consent with a data transfer that exists somewhere. These data exist somewhere! That's what bothers me and bothers all those who are committed to the fundamental rights of privacy and individuality. I draw attention to this element, which I think is extremely important when there are alternatives. It is enough to involve front-line doctors more closely to attest that people are in a position to receive the vaccine, rather than to build databases that are processed and stored – it is not clear how long – and that are a long-term threat to privacy in this country. That's exactly what I'm saying. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u54	Madam President, Minister, let us be serious. This is a serious matter. The next time we discuss the figures, which we both know by heart, is not an option. Our people are waiting for a vaccine and they don't have one. You say that these countries will not receive the extra vaccines until the end. You understand the rule of three, don't you? I made it very clear to you in January 2021. The Netherlands has received more than one hundred thousand vaccines than our country. You still can't explain to me why. I can only conclude that you are not disadvantaged, but that you simply ordered too few. It is a lack of foresight and leadership with a killing factor in the first and second wave. The lack of your foresight, your leadership and your responsibility means that we are behind today and that Denmark has the prospect of a free summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u55	Mr. Minister, first of all, I indicated that you were spinning around the pot, but now it's even worse. You're not answering my question. You answer a question I didn't ask. I am not asking if we will administer one or two vaccines. I ask if you will check in people with antibodies for how long they keep those antibodies and whether they have them. We do not know that, because that is not being investigated. You do not explain whether the antibodies are permanent or how long they may remain. Unfortunately, we do not know that about vaccines either. Secondly, in the Netherlands, a study showed that 90% of people with antibodies had them after six months. The Netherlands is ahead. Third, "We'll follow up on that." The verdict was just in the press. I heard that phrase nine months ago about the famous mouth masks. I love...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u56	Mrs Sneppe, your speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u57	Minister, you say they're childhood diseases, but they're not childhood diseases, it's chaos. We've seen that with the mouth masks, with the tests and with the tracing. There is a clear system error in our healthcare system, in particular that we do not have good preventive first-line care in our country. That is the real problem and not the so-called childhood diseases that have been repeating themselves for a year. You did not mention the patents, although that is an urgent question that needs to be resolved today. You made a certain choice at the time. I repeat what I said earlier: lifting patents today is a solution. Oxfam's numbers are clear. Only 43% of the global production capacity to produce vaccines is being used today. If we want to scale up that production, it is possible, but then we have to lift the patent legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u58	Mr Minister, Avrox's mouth masks, mouth masks that the government itself handed out to the population, could be a silly Belgian joke if this were not so serious. However, it is because these masks may be toxic, they may be a danger to our public health. A government that poisons its own population, that's crazy. However, I warned from the outset that getting involved with a PO Box company is not a good idea. Avrox is an effective Luxembourg postal bus company. Why don't you take a look in Luxembourg? There's only 50 mailboxes there. Against every common sense, the government went along with it. There have been several problems with these masks, but I will not list them all because I only have one minute to speak. However, all these problems sink into thin air with this latest news. The masks might make us sick. Mr Minister, why has it taken so long, almost eight months, to remove these masks from the shelves? This is not new, we knew it in June. The Belgian textile federations raised the alarm at the time, but all of this was swept away. You are now, after many months, finally convinced that the masks can be a problem. That is why I would like to know in detail how you are going to inform the people. Not everyone reads the newspaper or follows the news. This also applies to pharmacists. This Avrox mouth mask was picked up half an hour ago, right around the corner. So it's from a Brussels pharmacy that hadn't heard there was a problem. (Mr Freilich shows a mask)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u59	Minister, can you assure me that you will do everything in your communication (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u60	Madam President, Mr Freilich, the Avrox masks are in line with the European regulations in force at the time of their distribution in Belgium, and they are still in line with them. That is a very important point. Indeed, that regulation defines, inter alia, standards for the use of silver nitrate as a coating on masks, which has been used in those masks. In this respect, there is no reproach whatsoever for the decision taken by the Defence Department last summer, as these masks comply with the regulations. At the beginning of October, Sciensano launched an additional special research project on its own initiative, examining the possibility of extracting tiny silver particles from that textile. If that is the case, it could be bad for health. A preliminary result, which I received in mid-January, says that this could be the case, but one does not know what this means for health and one is not yet sure. As responsible government, especially as Minister of Health, advice should be sought immediately from the competent authority, in this case the High Health Council. That's exactly what I immediately did. The Supreme Health Council says it does not know whether this is unhealthy, because further research is needed and there is currently no evidence of it, but caution is advised not to distribute these masks further. In this sense, the Minister of Defence has decided immediately and I recommend the same thing, of course. The pharmacists will also receive this instruction. Tuesday night late, I received the advice of the Supreme Health Council. On Wednesday, I told my fellow ministers that we should not distribute those types of mouth masks, because of the uncertainty, out of caution, not because there is any evidence that they are unhealthy. I will also have the pharmacies immediately instructed not to distribute that mask again, not because there is some evidence that these masks are unhealthy, because they comply with the rules, but because of a principle of caution. If such an investigation is carried out and the result might prove that, especially in the case of misuse, there is a health problem, then we should leave it. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u61	Minister, you say that Sciensano started an investigation on his own initiative in October. That's very peculiar. On your own initiative. No reason. They wake up and they say that three months ago the Textile Federation turned its ears on those mouth masks of Avrox; today we will examine them. We need to clarify this a little bit. Why did Sciensano suddenly wake up? On your own initiative? That's weird. Another important question. That was October. It's March next week. It took five months for people there to know that there might be a problem. That doesn't seem very serious to me, does it? I believe that this whole matter is also the responsibility of the former Minister. Mrs De Block, present here, has already heard that there may have been a problem. At that time all this was swept away and it was said that the Textile Federation of Belgium were sour losers who could not stand their losses. It's all very questionable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u62	I would like to add one aspect about timing, Mr Freilich. That Sciensano research is a very complex and highly sophisticated research. I also immediately asked Sciensano to do further research. That's gonna take a long time because of the kind of investigation. You can check with Sciensano. That's not even a matter of months. That'll take a very long time, that investigation. That is not because one is lazy, but because it is such a complex and sophisticated research. That is all the more reason why, out of caution, we are asking that these masks should not be further distributed. But we don't know the result. It's gonna be a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u63	I understand the investigation will take a very long time, more than a few months. Then I wonder why the masks were ordered at all. Do we order masks that we are not sure are healthy? Maybe they're a danger. Silver nitrate has indeed been approved by the European Union, for stockings and underwear, but not to put on your cake, as we say in Antwerp. That could be dangerous. In short, the whole affair is becoming a farce. I am ashamed on behalf of the government, on behalf of the previous government. This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u64	Madam President, Minister, this morning, like my colleagues, I was at the pickets for the Ipa and it was, strange but true, not only about the Ipa, but also about yesterday's press article, in which you said you wanted to impose additional burdens on the second pillar. A délégué told me that I had to remind you why this second pillar came and why we had it pushed down our throats. This is because we have the lowest pensions in Europe. He is right, because almost 30 years ago, at my first wage negotiation at Ford Genk, I was already pushed to put part of the employees' wages in that pension plan. For almost 30 years, we have been telling employees that they will earn more in this way and will have net more at the end of the journey. Now, so many years of missed storage and payments later, not to mention a piece in the social security fund, you come here to tell me that you want to tax the second pillar extra. In short, the piggy is fattened and you can slaughter it. However, there is a big difference between a worker's piggy bank and a manager's. This means that supplementary pensions are pensions of inequality, but you already know that. What's weird about your story is that you write on page 8 of your policy paper that the government aims to further generalise the supplementary pension. So I do not understand: on the one hand you say it is unjust, but on the other hand you want to extend it further. We say that more investment is needed in the first pillar. We have had a lot of discussions on this and it will certainly be so many times. I therefore have a few questions, Madam Secretary. Will you continue with your plans to burden the second pillar? How will you guarantee that the average employee will not be affected? What are you going to do to strengthen the first pillar, not just for the lowest pensions (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u65	Madam President, Minister, pension reform is a major challenge in the government agreement and therefore for you. The target is a minimum pension of €1,500 for citizens with a full career. The aim is to achieve a higher employment rate of 80%, if possible, because this is ambitious, but also measures that allow us to have a longer career, because we still have the shortest careers in Europe. The differences between the pensions of employees, self-employed persons and civil servants should also gradually be eliminated. The coalition agreement states that there must be a widening of the second pillar, which must be democratized and generalised. So far, we have had a good time to discuss your policy paper, Madam Minister, but after yesterday's communication I am concerned. You came up with the idea of guaranteeing the pension pillar in the first pillar by taking it out of the second pillar. I do not think that is the right approach, quite the contrary. During the discussions you often talked about trust, the confidence that people should be able to avoid being burdened more heavily at the end of the journey. There must be confidence, together with a legal certainty and stability. Madam Secretary, what about this? You must present a plan to the Council of Ministers by 1 September 2021. In politics, that's actually tomorrow. We are now halfway between 1 October 2020 and 1 September 2021. What is the state of your preparatory work? What consultations with the Minister for Employment (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u66	Madam President, Minister, the pension dossier is an excellent example of the Belgian disease. A lack of vision and political courage has led to an ageing population reaching these and future generations as a budgetary crumb. Those who have worked for years and have built up our prosperity should be able to enjoy their old age without worry, but unfortunately we have to note that this is not the case in many cases. In your policy statement, you announced that a major pension reform would be undertaken. You would be working on raising the lowest pensions. This increase in minimum pensions was already guaranteed in the budget at the end of last year, which is a good step towards that promised minimum pension of EUR 1,500. However, as far as pension reform is concerned, it is clear once again that there is no consensus within the government, and if we can believe the back and forthwitter, this will be an issue for discussion. Cooking costs money, and that's where the shoe wrings. The government will have to look for funding for the affordability of pensions, but to seek that funding from someone who has been able to save through his company for a supplementary pension is a bridge too far for us. As you know, with the first pillar pensions we score heavily below the European average, we all know that the supplementary pension was created because Belgium itself is unable to keep pensions at an acceptable level. This government chose to leave the pension portfolio to the socialists. Socialism works until someone else's money runs out of a good citizen's money. Madam Secretary, how will you guarantee the affordability of pensions? Will you touch that second pillar? So will you be affected by the supplementary pension?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u67	Madam President, Minister, yesterday morning coffee tasted a little bitter when I opened The Newspaper and read that you were obviously planning to finance minimum pensions through an additional tax on the second pillar of pensions. In the margins of the Committee on Social Affairs and the media, you did a number of things yesterday and said that this is not the intention. That doesn't change the fact that I'm still suspicious. I am not just saying that there are four million people who are doing their best to build that second pillar of pensions. As you know, in the last four months, I have been regularly interviewing about the increase in minimum pensions. That is good in itself, but how will you finance it? How much is that gonna cost? You always conveniently avoided the answer by referring to the great moment we are all waiting for, namely the major pension reform ahead of September and also the social dialogue. Of course, we know from the social partners that they sometimes come to an agreement, but that this is not always easy unless a bag of money comes up. When I read, Madam Minister, that you have overlooked the report of the Supreme Court of Finance, which has an additional revenue of EUR 2 billion per year on the basis of additional taxes on the second pension pillar, I am very worried and suspicious. Is it not therefore appropriate for you, instead of communicating on this subject, to start communicating about your plan and that of your colleagues to address the problem of ageing costs? This can be done by increasing the level of activity and still mainly in Wallonia, instead of always leaving balloons to look for money in the pockets of hard-working savers who are then, by chance or not, for the most part in Flanders. Do you agree that the increase in minimum pensions should not be financed by higher charges (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u68	Minister, you have five minutes for your answer. As you can see, we're holding to the timing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions which will allow me to put the points on the 'i'. I am outraged by the momentum of disinformation that reigns. I will therefore speak in both languages so that my message is heard and understood by all. I prefer to get questions about the content, questions about the article, questions that go beyond just a false and misleading title, because the title is clearly fake news. I do not want the holders of supplementary pensions to pay for the higher minimum pensions. The higher minimum pensions are structurally guaranteed. No, and again, no, the two are not linked together. The increase in minimum pensions and the reform of the second pillar pension are not communicative. The raising of the minimum pension and the reform that will make supplementary pensions fairer and fairer are not communicating vases. Making a rapprochement between the two is dishonest and is a matter of the gross will to deceive the citizens. I want to make it clear here. I don't touch acquired rights. Telling the citizens something else is lying and increasing distrust in politics. The pension reform is complete, as laid down in the government agreement. Never before has it been discussed to remove the possibility of benefiting from the second pillar through the collection of capital. Nooit! Nooit! Never! The second pillar must be democratized so that all workers can benefit from it. The second pillar must be democratised to benefit all workers. No one will touch the acquired rights. But, yes, I want to reform the supplementary pension scheme. I make two observations when we talk about supplementary pensions. Firstly, the supplementary pension is very unevenly distributed. Today, 1 per cent of pensioners with the highest pensions take 20 per cent of the tax benefits alone, while 70 per cent of pensioners together receive only 10 per cent of these benefits. Secondly, because the government is heavily subsidising this system, both socially and fiscally, it costs our country EUR 2 billion or more. I cannot accept that the government supports such inequality. I cannot accept that, as a state, we are subsidizing such inequality. It is therefore the excesses that I want to combat, so that a very small group of citizens, the most affluent, will not benefit from this supplementary pension scheme as an instrument of optimisation of taxation to form very large pensions. This is the challenge for me: good and fair pension protection for everyone. We do not touch the purchasing power of middle-class pensioners. The reform that I will achieve together with the social partners focuses on four yards. The pension of the future means for me a strong legal pension, a more accessible and fair supplementary pension, a pension system adapted to societal developments and a transparent system. By September I will come up with a proposal, of course after the social dialogue. The reform that I will put in place will promote confidence, solidarity and transparency. It will ensure greater social and fiscal justice and greater solidarity between the highest and the lowest pensions, as registered in the government agreement. The pension reform that I will carry will be that of solidarity, transparency and a return to the confidence of citizens in their pension systems. It will therefore be the opposite of the misinformation that some parties in this assembly like to abuse to scare citizens. No, the Minister of Pensions is not going to squander the citizens. It's them I want here and now reassure, because each one of them counts in my eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u70	Madam President, Madam Secretary, I do not know if I should find it funny. After all, what you say about the derailments in the second pillar and about the abuse that is being made of the second pillar, we have already referred to you several times in committee. That's not new. However, it is strange in the story that over the past 40 years most of the pension ministers have come from your socialist family. So it's no longer funny that you need to correct things now. What have you been doing for 40 years? What have you been telling the unions for 40 years? I hear the Liberals very gladly hope that nothing will happen to the second pillar and that you will not nibble at it. They are right to be concerned, albeit not for the same reason we are. After all, we are worried about the workers, who can have that little bit more on their pensions. For them, this concern is different from that of the fat managers, who receive EUR 2 million from the second pillar for their retirement. That is the inequality that exists. We therefore reiterate the need to invest in this minimum pension of EUR 1,500, so that we get fair pensions for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u71	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is important that people have a good pension in the first pillar. Access to the second pillar for all is also a goal for us. That is far from Mr Colebunders' reasoning. We are therefore counting on you to submit a comprehensive and balanced proposal to the Council of Ministers by 1 September 2021. Bonne chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u72	Madam Minister, in times of financial uncertainty, leaving a balloon on one of the things people are most awake about, especially their pension, is, at least, inappropriate. The citizens themselves were lured by the government with tax advantages in relation to that supplementary pension. You're actually playing with the citizens' confidence. Touching that second pillar would also be a breach of contract. Madam Minister, after the saga of the reverse counters for the solar panels and the sneaky increase in taxes, it is really not the time to do more to the citizens. Allow me to make a suggestion. If money is to be found to keep pensions affordable, do not go looking for that good saver citizen, but put more people to work, do something about the average career time and save in other areas such as the migration bill that puts a heavy strain on our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your clear answer. I agree that there should be greater transparency in the supplementary pension and that excesses should be eliminated. There you will find an ally with us. However, make sure that the second pension pillar remains attractive and even more attractive for anyone who can claim it. At the same time, you must not lose sight of the fact that this second pillar of pensions is based on people's savings. In this respect, this pillar is fundamentally different from the repartition system in the first pillar. That's what we've agreed on, and you have to stick to it. I have noted that you will do so and that you will absolutely not breach any contract. The message must be: "Hands away from people's savings and stop launching any balloons or ideas that make the opposite appear" I do not think those ideas are carried (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u74	Madam Chair, Minister, the issue has been addressed in part by my colleague Freilich with Minister Vandenbroucke, but I would like to come back with you. We will not be spared anything in this saga of Avrox masks that were acquired last June by the Defense. Absolutely nothing! These are extremely expensive masks, well above the market price, acquired from a "letter box" company in Luxembourg, a company that has changed its social object and shareholding to be able to claim to compete in a rather strange, surprising public market, since the terms of reference have been changed during the market regarding the technical considerations on these masks. These masks came very late. They have been partly distributed to the population; there are 10 million masks left in stock. And today we learn that these masks would be potentially toxic with titanium nanoparticles and silver nanoparticles. When I say we learn it today, it's not exactly right. In fact, the competing companies of Avrox, the Belgian companies, had fired the alarm bell last June by saying that there were nanoparticles. To this, the Avrox company replied "mensonges", "you're frustrated because you didn't get the deal", "it's not true and we're going to sue you". And what did the Defense do? It considered that Avrox was right and that these masks were in full compliance with the European Union's health precautions and criteria. So we once again believed this company that had taken us by boat on a whole series of other elements of this market. And today, we realize that indeed, these competing companies were right and that these masks are potentially dangerous. Minister, since the nanoparticle alarm was given in June, why did it take so long to realize that there were nanoparticles? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u75	Your time has expired, Mr. Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u76	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, as a reminder, Defence, on behalf of the previous government, purchased 18 million fabric masks from the budget dedicated to managing the covid crisis, i.e. the corona interdepartmental envelope. Before the distribution, on June 12, 2020 – and it is not the Defence that says so – the Defence received a notice from the SPF Public Health, Directorate-General Environment, stating in conclusion: "The oral masks treated with the product Silvadur 930 antimicrobial meet the requirements of BPR 528/2012 and can therefore be placed on the Belgian market." As soon as I took office, aware of the existence of a stock of masks held by the Defence, I took the initiative to ask different authorities about the future of this stock, because the Defence is not the owner of it; it is the manager of this stock. In this context, I have taken several steps with provincial governors through the National Crisis Centre. I also asked Commissioner Corona. Finally, I also approached the federated entities to find out their needs. At the same time, in early February, I suggested that the remaining stock masks could be made available in the country's vaccination centres. Since then, a new situation has been brought to my attention. Thus, on the recommendation of the Higher Council of Health, and after consultation with the Minister of Public Health, I have taken the following actions: the Defence has asked pharmacies, through pharmaceutical associations, not to distribute these masks for the moment. I have received confirmation last night that the Defence has sent this e-mail to the pharmaceutical associations; the Defence will not distribute any more masks that are currently in stock in Puisie. This, as a precautionary measure and pending further scientific information. This is therefore a preventive measure. I understand, of course, the questions that this opinion raises. However, the Minister of Health has committed and is making every effort to obtain the results of comprehensive analyses as soon as possible. As soon as I have the conclusions, I will be able, in agreement with the government, to decide on the allocation of these masks. As far as your questions about health are concerned, I refer you to my colleague with expertise in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u77	Madam Minister, thank you. You're talking about a new deal. That is where we disagree. For the past seven months, some companies that know this type of textile have warned of the presence of nanoparticles, reminding them of the danger. They had said so and had asked to warn consumers. Seven months later, we take these masks out of the market. For my part, I ask the government to proactively communicate – through display in pharmacies – to those who hold such masks. They are not necessarily informed of government communications. Finally, it is necessary to make all the clarity on this completely hallucinating acquisition with this company without any expertise and which has potentially endangered the health of our population, when it was asked to protect it. It is therefore time to make clarity...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u78	Mr Dallemagne, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u79	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that you refer the following motion for a resolution to the Committee on External Relations: - the motion for a resolution (Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Peter De Roover, Sander Loones, Valerie Van Peel, Theo Francken, Joy Donné, Wim Van der Donckt, Sophie De Wit, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Christoph D'Haese) to update certain cooperation agreements concerning participation and representation in European, international or bilateral forums, No 1666/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - the motion for a resolution (Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Peter De Roover, Sander Loones, Valerie Van Peel, Theo Francken, Joy Donné, Wim Van der Donkt, Sophie De Wit, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Christoph D'Haese) on the updating of certain cooperation agreements concerning participation in, and representation in, European, international and bilateral fora, No. 1666/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been sent to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs. This resolution proposal was previously sent to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. At the request of the authors, I also propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - motion for a resolution (MM. Samuel Cogolati, Wouter De Vriendt and Stefaan Van Hecke, Ms Cécile Thibaut, Mr Kristof Calvo, Ms Marie-Colline Leroy and Mr Albert Vicar) on the protection of the fundamental freedoms of whistleblowers and journalists, No 1069/1. At the request of the authors, I also propose that the following motion for a resolution be sent to the Committee on External Relations: - motion for a resolution (Mr Samuel Cogolati, Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Cécile Thibaut, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mrs Marie-Colline Leroy and Mr Albert Vicaire) on the protection of the fundamental freedoms of whistleblowers and journalists, No. 1069/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been sent to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs. This resolution proposal was previously sent to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u80	The term of office of the members of the Federal Ethics Commission expires on 25 May 2021. The term of office of the members of the Federal Deontological Commission shall expire on 25 May 2021. In accordance with article 7, paragraph 2, of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the publication of an appeal to candidates shall take place not earlier than three months before the vacancy, i.e. no later than 25 February 2021. In accordance with Article 7, second paragraph, of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, a call for candidates may be published at the earliest three months before the vacancy, i.e. not earlier than 25 February 2021. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including, for each linguistic role, a judge or professor of law, three former members of the Chamber and/or the Senate and two former representatives (within the meaning of Article 2, 2° to 10°, of the same Act). The Commission consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each of whom has one magistrate or professor of law, three former members of the Chamber and/or Senate and two former officials (within the meaning of Article 2, 2° to 10°, of the same law). Members shall be appointed by the House of Representatives – by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two-thirds of the members to be present – for a period of five years, renewable once. Members shall be appointed by the Chamber of Representatives by a two-thirds majority of the votes, two-thirds of the members being present for a period of five years, which may be renewed once. In addition, a maximum of two thirds of the members are of the same sex. In addition, a maximum of two thirds of the members of the same sex may be. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 February 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 February 2021, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u81	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 December 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 7 January 2021 for the presentation of the members of the Federal Commission for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Application of the Euthanasia Act. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 December 2020, a call for candidates for the nomination of the members of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law on euthanasia was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 7 January 2021. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are lecturers, professors or meritorious professors of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: - eight members are doctors, at least four of whom are professors, professors or emeritus professors in medicine at a Belgian university; - four members are teachers, professors or emeritus professors in law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. Taking into account linguistic parity and on the basis of pluralistic representation, members are appointed by royal decree from a double list presented by the House of Representatives, for a renewable term of four years. Candidates who are not elected as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. Members shall be nominated by royal decree from a double list by the Chamber of Representatives for a renewable term of four years, taking into account linguistic parity and pluralist representation. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Each language group has at least three members of each sex. Each language group shall have at least three members of each sex. The following applications were submitted: 1. Medical Doctor Category - M. Marc Desmet (N) - Ms Corinne Vaysse-Van Oost (F) - Ms. Bea Verbeeck (N) 2. Category "Professor (Emeritus) or lecturer in medicine at a Belgian university" - Mr. Wim Distelmans (N), Professor at the "Vrije Universiteit Brussel" - Mr Didier Giet (F), Professor at the University of Liège - Mr. Emmanuel Keirse (N), Professor Emeritus at KULeuven, member of the Bioethics Advisory Committee - Mr. Chris Verslype (N), extraordinary professor at the KULeuven 3. Category "Professor (Emeritus) or Law Lecturer or Lawyer" - Mr. Tom Balthazar (N), Senior Lecturer at the University of Ghent - Mr. Walter De Bondt (N), Ordinary Professor Emeritus at the University of Ghent (pensionee) - Ms. Jacqueline Herremans (F), lawyer - Mr. Yves-Henri Leleu (F), regular professor at the University of Liège, lawyer - Mr. Christophe Lemmens (N), lawyer 4. Category "Middles dealing with the problem of patients with incurable disease" - Ms Jacinta De Roeck (N), Ethics Adviser for the Open Vld, President and volunteer of the "LEIF Antwerpen" - Mr. Marc Desmet (N), an expert in palliative medicine, ethician and palliative care physician at the Virga Jesse Hospital in Hasselt - Mr. Paul Destrooper (N), Secretary of the INAMI Committee on Medical Consultants - Ms. Jacqueline Herremans (F), lawyer - Mr. Emmanuel Keirse (N), Professor Emeritus at KULeuven, member of the Bioethics Advisory Committee - Ms. Mariette Van Hoeck (N), a pain nurse for LEIF. The following applications were submitted: 1. Category "healer' - Mr Marc Desmet (N) - Mrs Corinne Vaysse-Van Oost (F) - Ms Bea Verbeeck (N) 2. Category "(emeritus) professor or lecturer in medicine at a Belgian university" - Mr Wim Distelmans (N), Professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel - Mr Didier Giet (F), Professor at the University of Liège, - Mr Emmanuel Keirse (N), emeritus professor at the KULeuven, member of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics - Mr Chris Verslype (N), extraordinary professor at the KULeuven 3. Category "(emeritus) professor or lecturer in law or attorney" - Mr Tom Balthazar (N), Professor at Ghent University - Mr Walter De Bondt (N), emeritus ordinary professor at Ghent University (retired) - mevrouw Jacqueline Herremans (F), advocate - Mr Yves-Henri Leleu (F), Professor at the University of Liège, attorney - Mr Christophe Lemmens (N), lawyer 4. Category "circles in charge of the problems of incurably ill patients" - Ms Jacinta De Roeck (N), advisor on ethical issues Open Vld, chairwoman and volunteer at LEIF Antwerpen - Mr Marc Desmet (N), expert palliative medicine, ethicist and physician palliative care AV Virga Jesse Hospital Hasselt - Mr Paul Destrooper (N), Secretary of the RIZIV Committee on Advisory Doctors - mevrouw Jacqueline Herremans (F), advocate - Mr Emmanuel Keirse (N), emeritus professor at the KULeuven, member of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics Mrs Mariette Van Hoeck (N), LEIF pain nurse. Ms. Jacqueline Herremans and Mr. Tom Balthazar applied outside the deadline. Ms Jacqueline Herremans and Mr Tom Balthazar applied late. The number of nominations for actual and alternate members is insufficient. Insufficient applications were submitted for the mandates of effective and alternate members. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 February 2021, I propose that you declare the candidatures of Ms Jacqueline Herremans and Mr Tom Balthazar admissible and that you publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 February 2021, I propose that the candidatures of Ms Jacqueline Herremans and Mr Tom Balthazar be declared admissible and that a new appeal be made to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u82	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the draft law assenting to Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, No 1792/1 was tabled. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, No. 1792/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u83	Madam President, Council Decision 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the EU's own resources can only enter into force after the agreement of all Member States. Since the aid measures in NextGenerationEU can only be granted after the entry into force, but they are urgently needed for the recovery of the economy, it seems appropriate for Parliament to confirm the agreement and decision as soon as possible. It is from that point of view that we are asking for the application of Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u84	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u85	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill to postdate the entry into force of the provisions relating to the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for custodial sentences of three years or less, No. 1796/1. The Government has also requested urgency under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the postponement of the entry into force of the provisions on the external legal status of sentenced persons into a custodial sentence for the custodial sentence of three years or less, No. 1796/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u86	Madam President, this draft law tabled in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure aims to postpone the entry into force of the provisions on the legal status of sentenced persons to a custodial sentence of three years or less from 1 April 2021 to 1 December 2021. The entry into force of the provisions was initially foreseen on 1 April 2021, but in view of the continuation of the pandemic, it is not appropriate to allow them to enter into force on 1 April. If we allow them to enter into force, it will have an impact on the influx of the prison population and it is not desirable to increase that population at a time when COOVID-19 measures have been taken precisely to reduce the population. It is therefore important that the present draft can be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible so that this law which postpones its entry into force can be voted, published and entered into force before 1 April 2021 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u87	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u88	The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on a proportionality assessment was submitted prior to the introduction or amendment of an occupational regulation in the health sector, No. 1800/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on a proportionality review prior to the adoption or amendment of occupational regulations in the health sector, No. 1800/1. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u89	Madam President, in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 12 February 2021, the Minister for Health requested in his letter the application of Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when delivering the aforementioned draft law. The urgency statement is based on the failure of Belgium by the European Commission on 8 October 2020 to transpose the European Directive 2018/958. The deadline for transposition was 30 July 2020. In order to bring the infringement procedure to an end as soon as possible under the federal government, I request that the draft law be placed on the agenda of the Committee on Health as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u90	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u91	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u92	Mrs Rohonyi, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution to set up an interdepartmental youth conference to draw up a plan to support young people affected by the crisis in VOCID-19, No 1810/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u93	Madam President, we have mentioned this earlier in our various topical issues, and the psychological, social and financial distress of young people is particularly worrying, so that the experts all sound the alarm. Following this cry of distress, we have tabled with François De Smet a motion for a resolution which aims to ask for several measures from the federal government, but mainly to set up an interdepartmental conference which would be responsible for drawing up a real recovery plan for our youth both in the short and long term, but also to involve finally the organizations representing young people and the child psychiatrists in the health measures that concern young people. This is not the case at the present time and is one of the reasons behind the erosion of membership of measures among young people. If I ask you for the urgency of this text, ladies and gentlemen, it is because we must act today and not in several weeks or months. We must support the adults of tomorrow. The more we wait, the more these young people will fall into great insecurity. I have been able to see on social media or in the press in recent days and weeks statements from your respective parties stressing the need to support these young people. I now give you the opportunity to join the floor in supporting our request for urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u94	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u95	Mr Hedebouw, you are asking for the urgency of the bill amending the Act of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguard of competitiveness, No 1812/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed earlier the state of negotiations between the social partners. Together with my colleague Marc Goblet, we want to bring a constructive solution, which goes beyond the majority/opposition divide, in response to the fact that there is no room for negotiation on the table. The law only allows for a maximum and mandatory standard of 0.4 per cent. We are putting forward a proposal for a common law which would make it possible to amend it and make it indicative. Rather, the PTB would like the 1996 Act to be abolished, but it is sometimes necessary to be constructive. There is an urgent need because the negotiations are currently taking place and it would be good if the debate could be held quickly. We ask for urgency, which in no way presupposes the vote on the law. The timing of the discussion is very much related to the negotiations that are currently taking place, and they should not wait for the law to arrive and its vote. In order to speed up negotiations, it would be appropriate to give urgency to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u97	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u98	The urgency is also requested for the legislative proposal No. 1814/1 by Mr Peter De Roover, on the establishment of a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the civil security law that makes it possible to act quickly. In doing so, a number of powers are transferred from the Chamber to the government, which, in these circumstances, rightly, enables rapid action. Since then, there have been a number of regimes, such as those of the powers of attorney. This is, of course, always an extreme measure which we must avoid as far as possible. After that, strangely enough, we returned to the use of ministerial decisions, on the basis of a law on which there is a lot of dispute. Can it be used for that? There is a logical increase in criticism of this. It takes longer and longer and the word urgency can be used less and less. I refer, among other things, to the Court of Appeal, as early as October, constitutional experts and a sharp letter from the Data Protection Authority on the lack of involvement of that institution, as well as to the Council of State. There were also very sharp reactions from three counters, the Flemish, French and those of the Court of Cassation, which say that the rule of law hangs on the ventilator. There is also a process of the League of Human Rights. That almost puts us in dubious company. Even the previous Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, put the finger very much on the wound last week. Moreover, through the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, the government has invited us to take an initiative. That has encouraged us. Initiatives taken by the opposition are, normally, automatically rejected every time, but given the government's invitation, our initiative will undoubtedly be able to overcome the gap between the majority and the opposition. We are therefore happy to accept the outstretched hand. In my view, it is difficult to argue that there is urgency. We are therefore asking for urgency and we thank all those Members who will join us in defending Parliament's rights, which in a democracy should be a no-brainer. I therefore ask the urgency of this extremely important legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u100	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u101	Madam President, the proposals for legislative acts are included in the recitals. 1805/1 and 1806/1 dealing respectively with Book 1 of the Civil Code, General Provisions, and Book 5 of the Civil Code, Undertakings. These are bulky pieces of work which have been discussed and developed with academics from both linguistic areas. This has then been translated into legislative proposals and it would be good to get a thorough opinion from the Council of State before the Justice Commission deals with this. I therefore ask for the opinion of the Council of State for both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u102	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] We will ask for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u103	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 9 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 9 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 84/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 84/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for the motion I am putting to the vote is the so-called meti resolution, which was unanimously adopted in the Chamber more than two and a half years ago. Metischildren were subjected to social stigmatisation and sanctions under the colonial state regime. Among other things, it was the Belgian State, which ensured that these children were kidnapped and displaced. They often went to orphanages or adoptive parents in Belgium and have been fighting for family and administrative recognition for a long time. The Belgian Church and the then Prime Minister have apologized to the metis community, but what is important now is that the commitment after the adoption of the resolution and the apology is honoured. The associations concerned are very alert, and rightly so, because the victims are, as it turns out, still experiencing many difficulties in various areas today. Metes whose nationality was deprived still have difficulties in correcting that. For example, the flow of information at the embassies with a view to identifying African biological parents remains flawed and the opening of colonial archives to research into the descent of the metises in reality appears to be a very long-term process. There is also uncertainty about the financing of historical research. The memorial stone to perpetuate the memory of that painful history stays out and so on. All this shows that change is going very slowly. Some Members in the hemisphere follow the issue very closely and share my concerns, including the chairman of the special committee dealing with the colonial past and the chairman of the Committee on External Relations. I am therefore particularly curious to see whether they will take action and support the motion, which they also endorse. The metis community would certainly be grateful to them for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u105	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u106	Yes 82 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u107	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 9 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission of 9 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 92/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Michel De Maegd. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 92/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Venezuela is and remains dramatic. Two years ago, President Juan Guaido brought hope for change, but unfortunately, and especially after the illegal elections on 6 December, the Venezuelan people have failed to move away from President Maduro's left-wing authoritarian regime. The Venezuelan people are now living in fear and suffering from repression. Millions of people have fled the country and Maduro is using the sanctions on the oil country as an argument to explain the deep economic malaise. The civil and human rights of the Venezuelans are being violated, from repression and threats against opposition members, journalists and critical voices, to forced disappearances, arbitrary detentions, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading punishments and treatments. In this regard, I would also refer to the 350 or so political prisoners currently held by the regime. Today we were told in the press that even aid organisations are the target of repression, because Maduro alone wants and can assist the poor in exchange for votes. In the motion before us, therefore, as recently confirmed by the European Parliament, we are asking for Juan Guaido to be recognised as the legitimate interim president, pending new and valid elections. We also call on the government to urge the Venezuelan authorities to release the at least 350 political prisoners unconditionally and immediately and to condemn the regime's gross violations of freedom of expression. We must send a message of hope to the Venezuelan people, who are the main victims of this impasse: hope that democracy will eventually prevail in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u109	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u110	Yes 86 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u111	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters of 10 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 10 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 94/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 94/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u112	Yes 77 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u113	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 10 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 10 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 101/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Kim Buyst. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 101/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Maria Vindevoghel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kim Buyst. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u114	Madam President, we have tabled a motion to keep the desks open. Since SNCB announced 44 points of contact, which is one in three to be finally closed, we see a wave of protest among the population, both with travellers, staff, local authorities, trade unions and with us, the PVDA. The PVDA has resisted those closure plans from the start. The resistance is therefore very large. Several local authorities, from different parties, have tabled motions asking for the counters to be kept open. I name Ronse, Diksmuide, Leuze and Jurbise. Whoever thought there would be no opposition to that decision is totally wrong. The social role played by SNCB's contact point is greatly appreciated by the population. People love their window and want it to be preserved. There is not only protest from local authorities and travelers. The staff is also in opposition. There have been a lot of actions over the last few weeks and there will be a national action day for the socialist trade union on 3 March. On that day of action, a call will be made for the maximum service of SNCB. That includes manned counters. Today large stations have become shopping centres with a minimum service for travellers. SNCB only looks at them through the glasses of profitability. Instead of following this financial logic, it should turn the stations into hubs of service close to home. In particular, the provision of services to people with disabilities is inadequate. While today only 5% of trains in Belgium are fully accessible to less mobile passengers, SNCB closes 44 points. The closure of points of contact means a step backwards for them. That group of travelers testified yesterday on the Mobility Committee and those were captivating stories. For those travelers, a human presence in a station is of course crucial, because today they do not travel in first, not even in second, but in third class. The conclusion is that everyone wants to keep the windows open, the travelers, the staff, the local authorities, the unions and us at PVDA. Then why are they being shut down? Is that because the Vivaldi government believes in the trail? I therefore call on the people to further oppose the closure. We are also continuing our petition campaign so that the points of contact remain open to all those who need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u115	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u116	Yes 105 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u117	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Justice Committee on 10 February 2021. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Justice Commission of 10 February 2021. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 90/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Dewael. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 90/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Marijke Dillen; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Dewael. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, full digitisation of justice is rightly one of the objectives of Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne. He announced them in his policy statement and made it clear that the building blocks already laid over the past year will be improved and supplemented. A fully digital file in criminal matters is a very important part of that. Unfortunately, criminal records can still not be consulted digitally by the lawyers today, although the technical possibilities are already available in a fully secure way and with full protection of professional secrecy and privacy. In this way, however, significant efficiency gains could be made. Colleagues, as early as 2017, then Minister of Justice Koen Geens announced that he would take the necessary steps to realise the electronic file. Unfortunately, we are not much further ahead today. Criminal records can be viewed digitally at the Court Registry, but unfortunately still not at the office. Where the case is dealt with on the substance before the judicial court, it cannot be consulted digitally at the Registry of the correction court, it must be fully printed again by the Registrar and the lawyers must also consult it in paper form at the Registry. Colleagues, the logic is a long way off here. I can confirm that the legal profession, both the Flemish lawyers through the Order of Flemish Baries and the French-speaking lawyers through Avocats.be, have been a party asking for a long time. There's also the cost. Along with the same announcement by Minister Geens in 2017, it was promised that a copy in criminal matters would be free of charge. That too has still not been achieved. The cost of a copy of the criminal record remains very high and can even rise to EUR 1,450, including for a digital copy. Colleagues, with this motion, we would like to ask that we at last, as a matter of urgency, work on the digital access to criminal records for lawyers and, pending this, make a digital copy available free of charge or at least limit the price to the real cost. Again, this is a promise from 2017, we are now four years ahead and on the ground that is still not realized. I would urge colleagues from the majority, especially my colleagues, to support this motion. The lawyer will be grateful to you, and so will the judges, the magistrates and the clerks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u119	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u120	Yes 86 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-02-25-definitief-55-plenair-ip089x.u121	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday, 4 March 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 4, 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
