ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u2	Colleagues, I am pleased to meet you to open the session.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to discuss an extremely important bill. The Home Secretary is here. I am surprised that the Prime Minister has left her on such an important matter. That's a government choice. On the basis of Rule 100 of the Constitution and Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request the Prime Minister on another matter. I would like to bring him forward in this House because on Monday we held a debate in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities on the resignation and the whole commotion about the appointment and dismissal of the Government Commissioner for the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. There the Prime Minister gave some explanation of the circumstances. Several colleagues, including myself, have asked for a clear timeline of events there. It has not been promised and we have not yet received it. In the meantime, yesterday, the RTBF distributed new information to show that the Prime Minister was at least incomplete. That information shows that the State Security document dates from Tuesday. The Prime Minister said that the Minister of Justice, Mr Van Quickenborne, was not informed until Tuesday evening, and that he was informed at 2:00 p.m. on Thursday afternoon, shortly before the start of this sitting. He did not make any statements about the fact that the document itself was drawn up on Tuesday. He didn't give us a timeline either. For the debate and the interplays that will follow, it is of the utmost importance that we have a precise timeline. Of course, we cannot rely on information in the media. When was the State Security Note drawn up? When was she delivered to the cabinet of justice or another cabinet, day and hour? When was she delivered to the Prime Minister and Secretary of State, on what day and what time and by whom? What other members of the government was she delivered to, by whom and on what day and what hour? That is crucial information for the continuation of the debate on this subject. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister to explain this as soon as possible, before we begin the interviews, and to give us all the clarity with the supporting documents. This will also enable us to make a proper reconstruction of events and to see to what extent the statements he has made in committee need to be adjusted with the right time data. I will give you this text, asking for it to be dealt with in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u4	Madam President, Mr De Roover, it is becoming a habit of you to start every plenary sitting by moving away from the agenda and trying to generate a little media attention by bringing in some member of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u5	Mr De Vriendt, the fact that we have a very busy agenda has everything to do with the fact that this government is late with all kinds of draft laws, in a very democratic way. Very serious matters need to be dealt with here, so that interplays may have to take place in the middle of the night. In that respect, therefore, your intervention is not addressed to me, but to the government. I hope you have the means to communicate this directly to them outside this House. Madam President, there is urgency behind some of these things. I fully understand that. I also told Minister Vandenbroucke earlier this week that urgency is a relative concept. Urgency may result from the fact that there is a fact, but urgency may also be due to the fact that the government is very late with the texts. In this way, urgency is created. In this way, urgency is a self-incited phenomenon. Contrary to recent years and previous governments, this is the case to an extreme extent at the moment. Secondly, I am sorry, I am referring to Rule 100 of the Constitution and Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure. The interviews that have been announced have been filed before the news was known to which I refer. Moreover, the information I am asking for is very relevant in order to maintain the interplay. Indeed, unlike the Prime Minister, Mr De Vriendt, I would like to take note of all the documents before addressing Parliament. The Prime Minister announced that he would first address Parliament and open the envelopes that are on his desk and relevant only after the debate. I find that a very strange way of working. I hope you will support me in suing this way of not providing Parliament with a thorough and fully informed response. I don't work this way. I wish to take note of all the documents and all the facts that are relevant before we can keep the interplay. So I see absolutely the logic of that, which I would like to confirm here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u6	Mr De Roover, I will contact Mr De Croo and ask him what you need. Then there will be an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u7	As usual, when we can settle this by consensus, I do not need to find formalism. I would ask you to inform us immediately of the answer. After all, this contact can take place quickly. If the Prime Minister comes to do so, it will of course be resolved and we will not have to initiate any procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u8	We'll be in touch now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u9	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 July 2021, you have received an amended agenda for this week's meetings. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u10	I have received amendments to the bill on temporary support measures due to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 2070/1. I have received amendments to the draft law providing temporary support measures as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic, No. 2070/1. I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u11	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1814: Peter De Roover, Joy Donné, Koen Metsu, Theo Francken, Christoph D'Haese, Sofie De Wit - 1823: Vanessa Matz, Georges Dallemagne, Josy Arens, Maxime Prévot, Catherine Fonck - 1883: François De Smet, Sophie Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u12	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Depraetere and Mr Gilson, and Mr De Roover and Mr Rigot. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u13	Mr De Roover, can you use the other microphone? In corona times we have always respected the measure of social distancing, in this case from the bank. (Mr De Roover took his place in the chair).
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u14	I don't think speaking from my bank will help the context of the discussion, but I won't sin against incivic behavior in this. (Mr De Roover moved to his bank). Madam President, I would like to give the honour of other speakers to begin the debate. I have just asked you whether the old chair might be offered for sale, because that would give us the opportunity to practice at home before we have the debate here. But I haven't gotten an answer yet. I will submit an order motion on this tomorrow so that you can respond, Mr De Vriendt. In all seriousness, ladies and gentlemen, here is a long-awaited debate on a long-awaited piece of legislation that we will call the pandemic law. I can only begin by saying that this is a very sad day for parliamentary democracy. It may not be a coincidence that today is July 14th, le quatorze juillet. Once the Bastille was broken down, stormed. A new one is being created today. A Bastille will be established in which Parliament will be locked up when a pandemic breaks out. A Bastille is being set up that will symbolise the defying of our parliamentary rights. This is, of course, the wrong way of responding to a wrong policy of the unconstitutional, technical and legal policy pursued by this government when it adopts all kinds of important and even freedom-limiting measures. The fact that we are still running this draft today does not bother me in itself, it had to come from one day. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also told you that we would continue to question the Council of State as long as we have new and relevant questions. It is my firm conviction, which was also confirmed by experts, that this was also the case last time, even though it caused some commotion to some members of the majority. They also found there, a bit in the spirit of what Mr De Vriendt was trying to do just now, that we were exaggerating. The use of parliamentary rights is apparently suspicious in these times. We have done so, we have done so several times, and we do not do so anymore today. We do not do that anymore, because I continue to follow the line I drew two weeks ago, namely that we do not want to use it as a flat delay manoeuvre. I believe that the opposition is playing its role correctly. Because, of course, we had the opportunity, with some fake amendment, to take up the Council of State and lift the matter over the summer, Madam Minister. Perhaps that would have been a small political victory, but I am not really interested in such important legislation. So we are going to have the debate today, knowing, suspecting, fearing that we know the result. Fortunately, the vote will not take place on 14 July and at least this symbolic humiliation will be spared. I think it would've been better if you'd let another summer get over it. Maybe it's gonna be okay. Perhaps one can think again, under some apple tree, pear tree or olive tree, preferably, about the scope of what lies ahead here. Nor is there any reason to discuss this acutely. If this had been an acute matter, the government would of course not have waited seven months for a bill to be tabled, thirteen months after the start of the pandemic. In the first few months, we did have another government. This government was set up on 1 October, and then it took until 27 April to receive the draft that you have submitted. That's seven months. If today were to be decided to postpone the vote, which I think would be sensible, although I have no hope of it, it would not create any problem. Why not? For the sake of clarity, therefore, I am not asking to continue working with MBs, of course not, but Parliament is even available in recess to provide you with all the assistance you need to take the necessary measures in a correct and legally proper manner, if they would still be needed with some kind of flare-up or a new pandemic. Let's hope this theory stays. Madam Minister, you have applied an acceleration, which is relative after five months, at the end of February, with the submission of a preliminary draft. That was about five months after the government set up. For months there was a long demand, including myself, from this gallery, to do something about the way in which work was very problematic. After we have submitted our legislative proposal, a document suddenly fell down, approved at first reading with a separate approach, on which I will say something in a moment. Of course, this is not the case at all. There will be no problem if we do not proceed to the vote this week. If we don't do it now, we'll do it after the summer. Maybe that olive tree wouldn't provide better insights after all, and we'll work it out today. What was the problem that needs to be solved here? By the way, Madam Minister, I would like to tell you straight away: if the draft is approved, you will indeed solve a huge problem. It is true that a technical solution will be found to a serious problem. I have been pointing out for months that the stretchability of the civil laws used in 1963 and 2007 as the basis for the ministerial decisions has run out and that you have gone far too far in using so-called emergency laws. It is difficult to say that 13, 12 or 10 months still fall under the heading of urgency. When I or other colleagues say that here, you can get your nose out of it, but experts, like judges, have said so. I will not mention names, but our hearings here have shown very clearly that the use of the ministerial decisions was technically beyond the Constitutional limits. A Constitutional Specialist emailed me on 16 April: "My main criticism was the issue of the MBs. The Council of State has now explicitly accepted this criticism and in this way implicitly states that the current situation is unconstitutional." By using these urgency laws too long, you have created a situation of legal uncertainty. Judges have made judgments, which have then been reformed in appeals. The essence of good legislation or good policy is, of course, that citizens know fairly clearly whether or not they should follow a particular legislation or measure. If one finds that even judges at first instance are not clear about this, there will be a cacophony in which the citizen no longer knows what he or she is allowed to do and whether an offence is an offence or an infringement of a rule which is not legally valid. On 26 May, a Kortrijk correctional court spoke quite harshly about this. The Kortrijk court reiterates in a comprehensively reasoned judgment the criticism that constitutional specialists and opposition members have been expressing for months, namely that the legal basis for the corona measures, the Civil Security Act of 2007, is not sufficient. The court finds, first of all, that the law itself is unconstitutional, because it gives a minister too extensive power to restrict freedoms. Ordinary courts cannot exclude unconstitutional law, but ministerial decisions based on such a law. The court states that the fight against the pandemic cannot be covered by the measures provided for by the Civil Security Act and made for acute emergencies, such as explosions. The court also considers that the prohibition of cooperation and other criminal practices were too poorly defined to be able to apply. You will argue that the Council of State has also made statements on this, but the Council of State - and you will agree with that - does not assess unconstitutionality. He has also clearly repeated that he is not competent to do so and does not make any statements about it. You must therefore be careful, if you continue to refer to the Council of State as the ultimate green light for the policies you have pursued. The hearings were also very clear in that respect, because in the first preliminary draft you were still moving in the direction of the ministerial decision. That whole idea is made of chicken hood. In hearings they hear different bells ringing, but this time they were united. The relevant passage had to be deleted, because working with an MB is not done. Fortunately, you have had an ear for it and decided that that decision could not be made. In fact, it is surprising that the idea of ministerial decisions survived a first reading in the government. It was not a piece of paper, it was a piece of paper, on which the government had already agreed at first reading. That preliminary draft was, to put it euphemistically, sloppy, and to put it precisely, unconstitutional. That is why adjustments have been made. As far as the process itself is concerned, you were very proud from the start that you had found an original way of working and that's right. You have submitted a preliminary draft, on which infinitely lengthy hearings have then been held. The report had about 600 pages. You sent that preliminary draft to the Council of State at the same time. That is unusual, but initially that idea sounded refreshing, because it gave us the opportunity to intervene at an early stage. The fact that we had also tabled a proposal of our own at the time is no surprise. After that, however, things went wrong. What originally appeared to be a refreshing performance has then proved to be a technique to circumvent the normal approach. The hearings were about a preliminary draft, in which, following the opinions of the Council of State and the hearings, and I quote the majority and yourself, 'the substantive reworkings have taken place'. In some areas, these are even changes which are not the result of the opinion of the Council of State. We have discussed this. You were of a different opinion. It was a creative reading of the facts, but it has resulted in the Council of State no longer being able to assess the final draft submitted. As a result, the majority suddenly felt that there should be no more hearings and that we have never been able to submit all these innovations to experts. It is true that an interesting, almost scientific, colloquium was held before we knew the text of the draft, in particular the hearings of the preliminary draft. But there were no hearings after that. That's pretty unusual, isn't it? We are holding hearings here about every futility, about every nothing, with long lists of specialists and a whole series of written opinions, for everything and all kinds of committees. There is one piece of legislation for which a hearing was refused. That is the draft before us. So, what you have sold as a novelty has translated into a breach of normal, decent legislative work. What do the experts think of the changes that have been made? I don't know. They're not questioned anymore. So the hearings have been abused to wipe out the real hearings on the real text. We're the minority. So the majority has simply considered the question of hearings irrelevant. I should like to say a few words about this. Then we have made use of the possibilities at our disposal. You can thank us for that. We did not need a majority to ask for legal advice from the services of the Chamber. I thank them very much for that. It is not that this has revealed essential, crucial issues, but a whole series of disturbing shortcomings, which have even been recognised by the majority as such. Amendments have been tabled and amendments have been made. If the opposition had not played its part, those disturbing defects would still have been present. They would then have been chased by Parliament today or tomorrow with the whip as final legislation. In this respect, the opposition has brought about fundamental improvements in the law, although it is not about the essence that I will deal with later. We had no more options, except for the Council of State's opinions, which have been asked twice. We asked for an opinion on the majority amendments, but they were not our amendments. It seems to me that the Council of State has shown a certain pragmatism, because it was really necessary to read between the lines to fully understand the meaning of a number of opinions. Madam Minister, from the point of view of organized social movements and not from the point of view of democratic decency, I note that fortunately, the third power has shown some pragmatism. After all, if one were to confirm the unconstitutionality of your MBs, that would have led to enormous social chaos. I think the judges took that into account in their assessment. I understand that, because you actually forced them into a situation where they had the choice between unconstitutionality, which is manifest, and their social mission, which they also have, in order to avoid a general chaos. They gave weight to that second argument. I don't want to throw them a stone for that. It's supposed to end up in your camp. If we consider an innovative approach again, I would nevertheless advise the government not to do so in order to prevent the normal course of events, which, of course, clearly and obviously requires strong hearings, for a final version to be discussed here. We have also tabled amendments. Mrs Ingels will discuss this more thoroughly later. I would like to highlight a number of things, one of which is not insignificant. The other points are not insignificant either, but rather technical in nature. The technical note of the services has not yet been fully implemented, as the amendments to the Social Criminal Code should be subject to transitional arrangements. Without transitional arrangements, it would no longer be possible for social inspectors from the entry into force of the pandemic law to adopt certain investigative acts relating to infringements of the relevant ministerial decisions adopted before the entry into force of the law. It seems to me that we have not yet found an arrangement for this. Since we are now holding the debate and you will perhaps repeat that this will be taken into account in the interpretation of the scope, you will be able to propose solutions in a moment, including with regard to Article 15.3. The Council of State considers that Article to be superfluous and could, in its view, be omitted. If the article is retained, it will therefore be necessary to clarify the legal added value or legal effects during the parliamentary debate. It may be important that this is done effectively. What is a technical problem, although it goes far beyond that, is the somewhat blurry wording in Article 2. I quote: 'epidemic emergency: any event causing or liable to cause a serious threat (...) which affects or may affect a large number of persons in Belgium and seriously affect or affect their health, and which leads or may lead to one or more of the following consequences (...)'. This terminology creates a very large grey zone, which makes it not so obvious when we are actually talking about an epidemic. Of course, we have a problem with the very limited role you assign to the Länder. Mr Ingels will explain our amendment to this effect. The opinion of the Council of State was not pleasant, but very interesting in view of future debates on the organisation of the State. The Council of State has gone very far in this respect. The previous state reform had left some loose ends there, so in any case that opinion is very important for the future, because of course you are also dealing with institutional matters. In any case, we have tabled an amendment concerning the consultation which Mr Ingels will address. Mr Matz and others referred to the implementation KBs, in my terminology the subsidiary KBs, which include measures which will be sent to the Council of State in accordance with the normal procedure, except in urgent need. In Article 4, we read that there is still the possibility of working with ministerial decisions: 'By way of derogation from paragraph 1, in the event of imminent danger, the measures which do not allow any delay may be taken by the Minister at a ministerial decision taken in Council of Ministers.' So the possibility of a ministerial decision comes back in through a back door. Then it gets weird, there are apparently still royal decisions that do not have to go to the Council of State in case of urgent need. Then there is another kind of urgent need, which does not require the use of royal decisions but of ministerial decisions. Here too, there is a lack of clarity as to the scope and scope that will be given to the Minister, for example, to act on his own initiative. That is a problem that I have only partially convinced you and the members of the majority. At second reading, it was said that the problem was that I raised, but that the Council of State did not offer any solutions. We do. We shall table an amendment to that effect. It all sounds very technical, but it does of course raise the question of when the civil security laws will no longer apply. According to the Council of State - and I believe you confirmed this at second reading - that is when Article 2 is on the agenda. On the other hand, the royal decisions on the pandemic will only be taken after the epidemic has actually been declared in accordance with Article 3. This can only be declared when the pandemic occurs and can only be declared after you have informed Parliament in detail. So there's a time gap. I don't know how big that is, but there's one, there's no question about that. The Council of State notes in an opinion that, after the entry into force of the draft text, it will no longer be possible to invoke the 1963 Act in order to combat an epidemic situation regulated by the proposed law. Furthermore, the Council of State says that if the legislator refuses to ratify that proclamation or if the King refuses to announce the epidemic, you or your successors will no longer be able to invoke any of the laws to issue decisions laying down the necessary measures by administrative police to prevent or mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. In human terms, if you do not activate that pandemic law, the Civil Security Act will no longer be able to be used for certain measures. Let us say that it may be legal nonsense, but I do not think it is important, especially since the moment when Article 2 is being discussed is not a moment comparable to an explosion. It is not until afterwards that a pandemic has taken place that we can no longer use these laws. It has been said that we must avoid overlap, we must avoid using the pandemic law at the same time as the laws of 1963 and 2007. I agree, but that overlap has now become an underlap. Instead of a period in which both can be used, I think there is now a period in which neither can be used anymore. That sounds like a potentially sufficiently serious problem, and I think it is rather a majority opinion that prevents you from seriously considering our proposals and solving that technical problem. I come to the far more important political problem. We are talking about a pandemic law, but that is, of course, obscured language. It's about a power of attorney. At one point, it goes even beyond a power of attorney law. In Het Laatste Nieuws, on 1 July, I read in an opinion paper: "Stevig parliamentary debate before a curfew is introduced? With the pandemic law, it is still not a guarantee." That is a very kind wording, Madam Secretary. It is not so much a guarantee, but it is a formal saying that it should not be. That's the essence of the law. I read in Article 5 of your paper that, after Parliament has given the government the green light to do so, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, for a future situation that we do not yet know, the following measures can be taken, and I shall confine myself. "Defining detailed rules subject to the sale and/or use of certain goods and services, their restriction or prohibition." You will be able, with the government, to prohibit nerddoers from selling or offering certain goods. "Defining detailed rules or conditions for cooperation, their limitation or their prohibition." In future, therefore, you will be able, without Parliament being heard in it, to prohibit cooperation. "Defining detailed rules or conditions for movements, their restriction or their prohibition" Without knowing Parliament, you will be able to impose a travel ban on us and all citizens. You will of course say that all this must be done within a certain context. That should still be wrong. For the record, that context is always taken into account by a proxy law. That goes without saying. You said in one of your statements that there could be a judicial test, but it has already been done in the meantime. In the meantime, with your government, you have the freedom to carry out very far-reaching infringements and restrictions. It should therefore not be surprised that the League for Human Rights, which we are looking at a little bit towards Green and Ecolo.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I quote: "It is the government that decides what measures are being taken to protect us from the infectious agent. Parliament does not need to do so, not even to confirm these measures. By ignoring Parliament, the problem remains that the measures being taken, which have a huge impact on our fundamental rights, are not the subject of a public and transparent debate.(...) This lack of control concerns not only the decisions taken but also the reasons for them. It has to be up to you."That's us. "come to decide, even when we're dealing with an epidemic emergency that triggers the framework of this law. Parliament must also be given a role in the design of the measures." The League for Human Rights has Article 187 of the Constitution: "The Constitution can neither be wholly nor partially suspended'. That is a very important guarantee of our fundamental rights. I quote once again the League of Human Rights: 'Provide explicitly that fundamental rights can be restricted but never suspended'. She also says: "The current wording of Article 5 (1) E does not preclude the introduction of curfew at all, even though it is clear that such a measure goes far too far and suspends our fundamental rights, rather than limited." We will have to find out again that you are introducing a curfew. When I said earlier that you are solving a problem with the proposed pandemic law, I meant that you have introduced that curfew unconstitutional and will be able to introduce it unconstitutional again tomorrow, but after we have placed our competence in your hands. That is why, in one of its opinions, the Council of State states: 'Of course nothing prevents the legislator'. For the sake of clarity, the Council of State does not interfere with the question of whether we gave power of attorneys to the government or not, but with the question of whether that happens according to the rules of art. If he says that it would increase democratic acceptance by introducing a ratification by Parliament, and you ignore that, then I can only conclude that the democratic support for far-reaching measures at the next or the end of the current pandemic is not your main concern. You do not seem to find democratic support for the introduction of a night clock, for the restriction of people's room for manoeuvre or for the prohibition of the presence of friends and family members in the house. Those are fundamental things. The Council of State says: let the democratic basis play a full part in this. According to the Council of State, the legislator, therefore, could do so. You're ignoring that. You say that is not your first concern. It does not seem to be your last concern, because it is not addressed. I don't understand. Why are you afraid of Parliament? Why are you afraid of the next parliamentary assembly? Is it your lack of parliamentary experience? In the meantime, you have already been here and you have seen that we are very good people, that we are very reasonable people, that we must fight as an opposition to obtain our rights, that is correct, but we have not yet torn the wallpaper from the walls here. I have left the speaker's chair because the President has asked it in her usual friendly way. I think that's unnecessary. I would not do that as President of Parliament. I'd make the speaker's chair available. I myself would sit five feet back, no matter what the problem would solve, but we are very friendly and correct people. We have also proved this by not using the Council of State today. So you can't complain about the house. You certainly can't complain about the paladines in the house that are part of the majority groups, because they always vote with their ears closed and the nose closed, as you wish. So why are you afraid of Parliament? I am not under any illusion that the majority would suddenly stop following you in the debates we are having here. I do think that we will then have an open, public debate, where everyone will have to speak out, so that public opinion can separate goats from goats. That's not gonna happen. That is the essence of the present draft law. You are afraid of Parliament, you are afraid of an open debate, you are afraid of transparency. You do not want Parliament to hold a debate on fundamental rights. Our proposal explicitly provided for this, with an urgent procedure, because à la guerre comme à la guerre. In the event of an emergency, Parliament must also organise itself in such a way as to enable it to take measures relating to fundamental rights quickly, accurately and responsibly. That is what we are providing for. In the event of an emergency, Parliament must increase the number of breaks. That was our proposal and that was very simple and transparent. That did not predict what would happen in the future, but it merely said that if something like this happens in the future, Parliament will be able to decide with it quickly in an urgent manner on those fundamental things and I quote the Council of State 'the democratic acceptance of the measures'. You did not go along with that, which is why I say that it is a black day for parliamentary democracy, not because I do not agree with certain legislation. Tomorrow we will have to vote on a very long list of draft laws and legislative proposals, and regularly we will vote against and be disappointed at what results from Parliament, but that is democracy. You have a majority of more than 75 Members in Parliament, so you take measures that we are very often absolutely dissatisfied with. That is a bit of a swallow, and hopefully someday the electorate will decide that we will get it straight again, but that is democracy. That's the essence of the game. However, I am talking today about a black day, because it is like democracy sitting on the dock, because it is like democracy being brought before a kind of tribunal, and that tribunal is the irony of the situation, and this is Parliament. If we have passed this law and the government is issuing a KB that identifies the epidemiological emergency, we may intervene one more time within 15 days. I will come back to that later. In those 15 days, when Parliament has not even established that the conditions have been met, only the government has determined that on its own will, you will be able to do what you want. If we then decide that you were wrong to activate that situation, the measures, penalties and fines that have been issued in those two weeks will still be valid. Let all that get through to you. We are actually sitting there for two weeks in a sort of coup d'état, where this House may only be able to see that you are mistaken. I see some nervousness among the liberals, because some still remember the word liberal, with a free, parliamentary democracy. You're laughing because you probably didn't read the lyrics. If you'd read the lyrics, you'd know what I'm saying is in here. You will approve that tomorrow. It is true that, after 15 days, we may have to judge whether the government was right to declare the epidemiological emergency or not, although it may have been possible in the past. That's just the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u15	A coup d'état is no laughing matter. Who in this hemisphere is capable of doing this? It's up to everyone to decide for themselves. Speaking in a democratic Chamber is in itself an exaggerated act. That'll be on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u16	That is why I said that would be some kind of coup. It is effective for you to put this paper next to your liberal standard. That is indeed the exercise. You have a few hours left to make it and to see if it is covered by any liberal measure. You may use a word other than coup d'état. Just call it powers of attorney. After all, they are. Call it a power of attorney. We co-approved those powers of attorney in 2020, in specific circumstances, which existed then and which we were able to assess at that time. Then we said that in those circumstances, during a certain period, under certain conditions, there could indeed be better and faster action than in a different context. But that was in a specific situation. Now we are doing so for situations that we do not know, future situations that we will no longer be able to judge in concrete terms at that time. If I am not mistaken, the European Convention on Human Rights says in Article 15 that a temporary derogation from basic rights can only be made if the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe is mentioned. In this House, it is often said that international law is very important. Many countries are being pointed at when they sin against it. Perhaps you could quickly put forward an amendment to at least bring your draft into line with the sacred principles that are always highly sung here when it comes to other countries. I would not be surprised if tomorrow some Member State of the European Union starts some kind of procedure, because we in Parliament are going to have some kind of coup d'état here today. I decide. Is this an improvement with the current situation, Madam Secretary? Yes, the current situation was clearly unconstitutional. You've been doing that for months. So this is an improvement, because for ten months you have put Parliament out of play. Now you are asking tomorrow that Parliament should take itself out of the picture. That's the difference. So we can talk one more time than we've done so far. In fact, you are asking Parliament: 'Can you declare yourself powerless? That's what I've been doing for ten months. That was a little embarrassing. I was criticized for it. Just do it yourself." Mr De Block, we are actually allowed to serve the proverbial guillotine ourselves now. We can let our own head roll in the basket. That's what's going on here today. At one point, I would choose a pure power of attorney law. A normal power of attorney law, as we provided for in 2020, will later submit the delegation of powers for Parliament's approval. We have done so under the very expert leadership of Mr Verherstraeten. It didn't cause much commotion, because we were all quite united on that. Parliament has, however, given a parliamentary stamp to the measures taken. That's not what this says, it's not provided for. In that sense, therefore, this goes even further than a power of attorney law. I'll call two more people in the hope that they can convince you. The first one is not a neutral source, I admit. He said: "There is great caution here. There is a risk that a so-called pandemic law will open the door to further erosion of our constitutional freedoms, for example at times when there is less consensus on the emergency situation. It can't be a white card for the governments. We have to make sure the cure isn't worse than the ailment. (...) Moreover, it is important to strengthen democratic legitimacy." Those are words that go straight to my heart. I will continue with the quote: 'Sowieso must have parliamentary control over the decisions. Parliament must validate them within a reasonable time." Beautiful sentences. I would have written them myself, but I didn't. It goes even further: 'More important than speed is the right finality: protecting our constitutional freedoms and involving Parliament fully'. I would listen to this author. I'd agree with him. Those words date from January 16, not so long ago, and the author listens to the name Egbert Lachaert. There have been times when I fully agreed with Mr Lachaert, there have been other times, but this is one of the first categories. If you do not think you should listen to politicians, then I have another quote: 'At least it pays to be a Member of the majority', so it is not addressed to me, but to you, 'to think again about the role you want to play. Whoever appreciates this role, who appreciates the role of MEP, does not just approve this pandemic law." That is an opinion document in the Latest News of 1 July, by the journalist who has taken on the business of res publica, who has drawn attention to the issue of parliamentary democracy and who has come to the very wise conclusion that anyone who appreciates the role of Parliament does not approve this pandemic law. Ladies and gentlemen, when we vote tomorrow, it is not so much a question of who belongs to the majority and who belongs to the minority. At that time, it will be apparent who in this House appreciates his or her role as a Member of Parliament and who, in crisis conditions, gives parliamentary democracy and our role of Parliament to a government which will be able to judge the basic values at its discretion. Madam Minister, with great conviction, my group will not approve the law. After all, I repeat that 14 July 2021 is a black day for parliamentary democracy. Your name is under that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u17	Madam President, Mr De Roover, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the text before us in plenary and in committees. We have also often been ready to engage in the debate. Today we can do that. I regret being the only one in my group to intervene. Normally, my colleague, Claire Hugon, should have intervened here as well. She followed this file very well, but unfortunately, for medical reasons, she cannot be present. That is why I will speak alone for the entire Ecolo-Groen group. I would like to go into a number of points in more detail. Firstly, the exceptional procedure. Mr De Roover and others are critical and minimize the procedure, but we should not underestimate the fact that we have chosen a way of working that is quite unique. Perhaps I should not mention them uniquely, because a few weeks ago, an article in the Magazine for Law was published by some eminent lawyers, pointing out that something similar happened in 1998 in the unified committees of justice and revision of the Constitution in a dossier on objective appointments and promotions of the judiciary and the establishment of the Supreme Court of Justice. The context was somewhat different. However, we have experienced a rather unique situation in which the government has been particularly vulnerable by submitting a preliminary draft which had not yet been examined by the Council of State and on which it could not give any valuable advice. However, the texts have been submitted to Parliament and examined by many experts who have read them very critically. The government might as well have sought internal opinions or waited for the opinion of the Council of State to submit a corrected text to Parliament afterwards. That would have been more comfortable, but this government has chosen to start the debate on the available texts immediately, with open sights. I think that is a clear sign of transparency and openness. I am therefore surprised that the opposition thinks everything is bad. I have never seen it before, Mr De Roover, that all the opinions are appended to a report. That report had 600 pages. However, there is criticism that the experts were not consulted again after the amendments to the text were made before the draft law was submitted in the final version. That is true, but if you go over those 600 pages, you will immediately find that all possible aspects have been covered. When you made that remark, I looked at the criticisms made by the constitutional specialists following the opinion of the Council of State. Tom Moonen, UGent Constitutional Specialist, states that the Council of State is sending out a clear signal that this bill will be able to move forward. Stefan Sottiaux, also a fairly critical professor at the University of Leuven, says that the government has succeeded, not with distinction, the texts have subsequently been adapted to the opinion of the Council of State. "If the government wants, she can move on quickly with this design." I can give you other quotes. It cannot be said that the reactions that came after the Council of State's opinion were mostly negative or devastating. The government has ensured that all the comments of the Council of State were also answered in these texts. That has also happened quite meticulously. It may be that one does not always agree with the chosen solution. We can differ on that. However, it cannot be said that it has not been taken into account or that these hearings have been a measure of nothing. Then I come to the crucial question. You want a pandemic bill? That discussion has been going on for a while. I myself asked parliamentary questions about this in October, when a police judge gave his first ruling. It ruled that there might be things that are not in order, that may be unconstitutional, that there was not enough legal basis. Then there were questions asked. It was October, we had been working since March, so we were already five months later. The question then was whether the Civil Security Act or the other laws on which it was based provided sufficient legal basis to take those measures or not. That is one statement, there have been other statements, but many decisions have also been taken in appeals where they have taken a different view. It is possible to refer to several judgments of the Council of State in which that legal basis was recognised. Just saying that we have been living in total unconstitutionality for more than a year is a bit of a draw. And you know that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u18	I'm listening very carefully to what you're saying. You say that the Council of State states that the law on which it is based has been correctly complied with. Then you say that it cannot be said to be unconstitutional. As I said earlier, the Council of State is not about this unconstitutionality. You agree with that, don't you? You cannot therefore conclude from those opinions of the Council of State that there is no unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u19	I am talking here about the Council of State, judging as an administrative body, on appeals against some of those measures. In this respect, the Council of State has never considered that these measures would have an insufficient legal basis, an unconstitutional basis. That's what I pushed forward. There is a discussion about this. The government and the majority have decided to make a pandemic law anyway, also in order to put an end to a divergence in justice. A number of judges spoke of insufficient legal basis. Others said that there is sufficient legal basis. We must put an end to this at some point. That was also the question of the order, both Dutch and French. We need clear legal certainty. That's why a pandemic bill was chosen. The text before us will provide that legal basis, with a much greater role for Parliament than it is for today. Parliament's role has been the source of a crucial debate for months. Mr De Roover, you do not think the role for Parliament is far enough, but I do think you are using very harsh words when you speak today about a sad day for democracy, when you say that there has been unconstitutional policy for over a year or when you are talking about some kind of coup d'état. Those are very heavy words. I believe that you underestimate the strength and potential of our Parliament on the basis of this text. I would like to go into that in more detail. Firstly, it all starts with the recognition of the pandemic emergency. This will indeed be done on a proposal from the government, with a whole procedure and advice. On the basis of these reports and opinions, the government will state at a certain point that there is a pandemic emergency. A royal decree is being issued and delivered to Parliament. Parliament then has 15 days to ratify it. This is a first important step in which Parliament plays a crucial role. Parliament can take note of the royal decision, of all the opinions on which it is based, and possibly even organise hearings with specialists during that 15-day period. Parliament can take two decisions on this. The first possible decision is ratification, with Parliament agreeing and confirming that the conditions are fulfilled. Parliament calls the situation serious, a pandemic situation. The second possible decision is that Parliament, on the basis of reflection, discussion and opinions, does not agree with what the government is proposing. That is where Parliament has a crucial role, which should not be minimized. If this law is adopted, we may end up in this procedure at the end of August or early September, if new measures are to be taken. At that point, the first step will be to ask Parliament to judge whether or not we are in a pandemic situation. Without this ratification, no other measures can be taken. If Parliament does not ratify, then the government cannot, on the basis of this law, adopt any measure by royal decree, point, sluss, done. Secondly, all measures will now have to be taken through a royal decision. There has been a lot of discussion about this, but we agreed. All constitutional specialists also noted that not all of these measures could be implemented through a ministerial decision. The text now before us stipulates that measures must be taken by royal decision. However, that discussion was also more theoretical than practical for a lot, because it was not a question of one minister who drew up all the measures alone, poured them into a ministerial decision and then published them in the Belgian Official Journal. This was discussed in the government and, more importantly, the measures were discussed not only in the federal government but also in the Consultation Committee, with the Heads of Government of the Regions and the Communities. The prime ministers sat at the table to make the decisions. Almost 70% to 80% of all political representatives in our country sat around the table. So it was not the case that one minister made the decisions on his own and that they had to be swallowed. On the contrary, they were already worn quite widely. Now the present design says it has to be a KB. That guarantee is introduced to avoid that in the future there might be a minister who will not make the comparison anymore, rest assured that certain measures will be taken. Those royal decisions must be communicated to Parliament immediately. The representatives of the people will therefore immediately know what is in the KBs. In fact, Parliament will not have to ratify the CSOs, but I will come back to that later, because that is actually the essential difference between us. We take note of the CRAs, we can discuss them and Parliament can also withdraw measures. What is important is that we underestimate that and will have to deal with it. The confirmation of the pandemic emergency runs for up to three months, which means that Parliament will have to decide every three months at the latest whether the conditions of the pandemic emergency are still met. At the latest, every three months, Parliament can always pull the emergency brake and say that the state of pandemic emergency is being lifted. Every month there is a report, which we must not minimize. The law is very clear. The measures included in the Royal Decree must be necessary, appropriate and proportionate to the objective pursued. The measures must be necessary, adequate and proportionate to the objective pursued. It's very important to us. That's essential. It is also the test for the Council of State to assess measures. We can hold a debate each month on the report we are receiving. Mr De Roover, I invite you to make use of this, and I believe that many colleagues will do the same. It is necessary to assess whether the measures are still necessary, appropriate and proportionate. They may still be proportionate and necessary in the first month of the three-month period, but in the second and third months they will be found to be no longer the case. We can have a debate on this and Parliament can send a very clear signal to the government. We can indicate what we find to be proportionate and what measures we consider no longer necessary and proportionate. If the government does not give a satisfactory answer, Parliament can always pull the brakes and decide not to extend the pandemic situation for a maximum of three months. After all, Parliament can decide this. Saying that this is a talk barracks and that Parliament would not have any decision-making power is not true. You must look carefully at the instruments available to this Parliament to conduct the debate and to enforce, prevent and change decisions. It's all possible. There is no effective legal ratification, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u20	Mr Van Hecke, I have listened carefully. You say that Parliament's role is essential. Then you sang the one moment when we must confirm the identification of the epidemic within 15 days. Then you started talking about KBs and consultation committees. However, this is not a job for Parliament. Then you started to decide on the extension after three months. It is true that in those three months we are allowed to give signals, it should still be wrong. You yourself say that we can then decide to stop certain measures. Then why don't we just get it ratified? Of course, we can send out signals, even without that report. I also wonder what form that will take. Without that report, fortunately, we also have Question Time and a committee meeting every week. We do not abolish Parliament, we do not abolish it by means of a power of attorney law. Obviously, that is not happening here either. The point is that, after that so-called sacred moment of ratification, we will end up in the spectator's seat within fifteen days. Of course, it is still possible for Parliament to meet, but I thought you would mention further parliamentary possibilities that are laid down in the law. That is why I have waited for my comments. The list of possibilities for Parliament laid down in this law is certainly not impressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u21	Mr De Roover, I have made it clear that Parliament can reduce and withdraw measures in all circumstances. You can also question the minister every week. I have set the example of the report, because you can use it for a thorough monthly debate on the state of play of the measures that have been adopted and on whether these measures are still necessary and proportionate at that time. You can do that every month. You can do that every day, every week on the committee. That is clearly stated and it will also be argued. For example, the report will also have to focus on proportionality and impact on vulnerable groups, which is important to us. Attention must be paid to the proportionality and impact of measures on the vulnerable public. That too is an important point of attention, which can be examined at any time. If Parliament considers that certain measures are no longer necessary, that signal will also be given clearly. Parliament may withdraw the measures and the Government may, by royal decision, amend or revoke certain measures. One point on which I heard little say to the opposition is that all the necessary information must always be made available to Parliament. This is very important for transparency. If we want to have the debate, we also need to know what the opinions say. There will, of course, be contradictory and unanimous opinions. In this way we can check whether or not the measures taken are consistent with the opinions and scientific reports underlying the measures. I therefore disagree with your claim that Parliament has no role in this matter and that it is a sad day for democracy, as you have put it. After all, there is a difference. Two models can be put forward. It may be decided that Parliament should ratify any measure and that any measure taken or proposed by the government should first be sent to Parliament for ratification, because otherwise the measure cannot be implemented. On the other hand, the model before us can also be chosen. There's something to be said for both models. Nor will I claim that I would a priori be intellectual and theoretical against the first model. However, we have already had this discussion. For me, there are two reasons why I believe that the model before us is more workable than the first model, with all due respect to those who prefer the first model. Mr De Roover, if a government has to act very quickly, because, for example, there is a sudden outbreak in a particular country, such as Portugal, it is difficult for us to decide to come to Parliament to discuss whether we are still allowed to go to Portugal and the measures to be applied on return. You will understand that, because the next day it will be Spain and then there will be something else. We will undoubtedly agree on that. We cannot come to this House with every measure because we sometimes have to take urgent measures. Even the Council of State confirms that. It is the government's duty to act quickly if necessary. The more fundamental discussions will be possible at least once a month if the reports are delivered and there is a view that there should be a fundamental debate. My second point concerns legal protection. We have to take into account the reality of the situation on the ground. Why do we think it is better to work with a royal decree, which should not be ratified and which should not become law? I've explained that before. If we have a royal decision, the legal protection of citizens is much greater, however strange that may sound. A royal decision may be challenged by the Council of State, including urgent procedures. That has happened, sometimes successfully and sometimes not. The Council of State has intervened in a number of cases. A royal decision also allows a judge to rule that a measure is unconstitutional and that the royal decision based on Article 159 of the Constitution can be disregarded. These are two essential elements in the legal protection of a citizen or an association. If the royal decree is ratified by law, then that possibility is no longer available. Then one cannot use the rapid procedure to suspend or destroy it, because then one must go to the Constitutional Court. That can only change if we agree and find a two-thirds majority to amend the Constitutional Court law. I already made that offer, by the way. In that case, we can provide for such an emergency procedure. This would remove an important argument, which would make this a completely different debate. By a confirmed royal order, a court cannot rely on Article 159 and does not take into account the ratified royal decree. That's not possible. The judge could put a question to the Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling to see if that measure is constitutional, but it would take several months. In other words, from the point of view of the citizen who is faced with a situation with which he absolutely does not agree and who cannot therefore agree with a particular measure, legal protection will be greater if one can challenge a royal decision before the Council of State or if the judge can put that aside than if they were ratified. That was an argument with regard to legal protection. If we want to have this other fundamental debate, namely the ratification by law and the referral to the Constitutional Court, then we must necessarily also talk about the amendment of the Constitutional Court law. Otherwise we will be in trouble in the field of legal protection. For these reasons, I think the draft before us is very balanced. A text can always be better, but it is balanced because Parliament has the opportunity at various times to debate the measures and pull the emergency brake if it has to, in order to stop the pandemic emergency. Parliament will have far more powers and power with this draft than it does today, Mr De Roover. I invite everyone to make full use of the possibilities provided. For us, this is a balanced draft that will provide a better legal basis and that is why we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u22	Mr Van Hecke, I have three points of reply. Firstly, you say that Parliament is given more power than it is today. I have just explained this: Parliament can now decide for itself that it will not decide. That's more than today. Now that is decided in our name. Technically, you're right. In addition, the formula of powers of attorney has been used here. That is legally a step forward. Parliament may delegate powers. That is also what the Council of State determines. From a democratic point of view, at the heart of the discussion we are having here, we are very reluctant to accept the idea of a time-force law, not a time-bomb, which is going to take place at a certain moment in the future in circumstances that we do not know today. Secondly, your observation that Parliament, if it has a full role, limits the full legal protection of citizens. This must make us think and act. There's work on the shelf. You referred to the law of the Constitutional Court. In that case, we cannot really accept that it would benefit the legal protection of citizens if we withdrew our own role. That's the bottom line. Then you agree with me that we urgently need to do something about this. Does Parliament need to be pushed aside for a moment and all the cards and assets are placed with the judges? These are both pillars on which citizens must be able to support in assessing the content of legislation. I invite you to make an urgent effort to ensure that this formula is not a choice for legal protection or for democracy. The third point of reply is a question. What's your verdict? Is the Civil Security Act still applicable the day before the Royal Decree establishing the epidemic? If not, then neither is the pandemic. Do you think there's a hole?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u23	Mr De Roover, I used the argument about legal protection. I also know that this is partly contradictory, that we should actually say that legal protection for citizens is de facto greater when working with an KB than with legal ratification. That's a statement. I am also using this finding to defend the solution we have chosen, because I think that legal protection is also an important aspect to be considered in this country, regardless of the debate in Parliament. As far as I am concerned, there is no problem in starting the discussion and also subjecting the Constitutional Court law to changes to allow for a faster procedure. This may be interesting for future legislation and may lead to other choices. As far as your question on the Civil Security Act is concerned, it has been a long discussion. You are talking about a decision taken before the pandemic situation is confirmed by Parliament. I believe that the Minister for the Interior will give a very thorough answer to this later. She's done that before. I leave it to her and her services to give a very solid legal answer. I understand your concern, which is also mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long since I do not pretend to convince my colleagues that the debates are still not over and that many of them have already spoken in press releases that rain on our mailboxes. Everyone has their opinion and no one will change it. However, the issue is important for the record of this meeting. Indeed, there is a lot, little or no talk about the citizens who will have to suffer the effects of a pandemic law, to suffer the effects of a pandemic. I am finally quite pleased to have heard my colleague N-VA group leader, Peter De Roover, who said that the Constitution could not be suspended. May your words, dear colleague, reason to the castle of Loppem! I'd be absolutely happy about that. For the rest, I just want to say that the law is legal science and that science is meant to be humble. In doing so, we have to ask ourselves questions. Why a law? Why a Pandemic Law? Where are we today? Where will we be tomorrow? Why a law and why a pandemic law? When I hear of Parliament's reduced prerogatives and so on, I wonder what Parliament's prerogatives to date are with regard to the management of the pandemic. We have moved from management on the basis of the Civil Security Act within the competence of the Minister of the Interior, which gives the Minister of the Interior the right to act by means of ministerial decrees, with a mechanism of decrees of special powers for which Parliament was again not consulted, to a mechanism in which Parliament will be associated sufficiently, insufficiently, too little or too little. Everyone has their conviction in this regard. But, in any case, I hope that the text before us today is unanimously regarded as a democratic step forward, since where Parliament was not involved yesterday, it will be so tomorrow. When I say he will be, he will be. As I have just said, science is humble and legal science must be humble as well. Moreover, we do not know how to predict what tomorrow will be. In my view, one of the most important and perhaps most fundamental articles is article 10 of this pandemic law. What does this article say? I quote: "Within three months after the end of the coronavirus pandemic, the government will transmit to the House of Representatives an evaluation report on the objectives pursued in the context of respect for fundamental rights in order to verify whether this Act should not be repealed, supplemented, amended or replaced." Paragraph 2 says exactly the same thing, but states that it is within three months of the end of each epidemic emergency. This means that in reality, the government and the current majority, through this Article 10, anticipate the fact that this law, which is being thought and will be passed today, can be imperfect. It is a human work and no one will dispute it. Being able to be imperfect or to draw lessons from the covid-19 crisis or from a future epidemic emergency that we do not know to date, this law will operate on the basis of a report within three months and no longer on the basis of recommendations as can be seen from time to time. We don't know where these land. The Act will operate on the basis of a report to be submitted to Parliament within three months and will be re-discussed to see whether it should be completed, improved or repealed. In my view, this is the greatest and most demonstrative admission of respect for the prerogatives granted to this Parliament, and a proof of humility, since we think that what we know today may not be the reality of tomorrow. The reality of tomorrow will have to lead us to amend this law on the basis of the crisis that we will have to face. I say that this Article 10 is important because it is part of things, and in this dynamic of rights and powers granted to Parliament, which is enshrined from the moment this epidemic emergency comes into force. I think this is also important for the record. It is important for citizens to know the facts and not just what is said. What is the definition of this epidemic emergency? These are five cumulative criteria, namely the presence of an infectious agent in humans affecting, or likely to affect, a large number of people in Belgium and which affects or is likely to seriously affect health. It must be likely to lead to one or more of the following consequences: the severe overload of certain healthcare professionals, the need to provide for reinforcement or support for certain professionals or health services, the rapid and massive deployment of medicines, medical devices, and personal protective equipment. This infectious agent must require national management and coordination. These criteria may be considered too imprecise, but the cumulative nature of the whole - the serious nature, the need for complementary arrangements, the need to strengthen services - and their national management allow us to say sufficiently and legitimately that we are not, while the text has largely evolved from the first version, in a device which, as already understood here, would allow us to enter when the government so wishes and for the needs of the cause in an epidemic emergency situation or phase. He can't and he won't. It will not be able to do so if, contrary to the first version, the evolution of which is evident, Article 3 states that "this epidemic emergency will not depend on a single member of the government, but on the government as a whole" and that "this epidemic emergency phase will have to be confirmed within 15 days by Parliament". Today I hear the irony about this deadline. I already heard it at the time when it was a two-day delay. It was considered at the time that Parliament could not give its opinion sufficiently. It was accepted that in two days Parliament would have difficulty in deciding. So we leave him for two weeks. But why this delay? To receive reasons for the outbreak of an epidemic emergency. Fifteen days to receive scientific data, reports, organise possible hearings of scientific, medical and legal experts if necessary. Fifteen days to make a decision. It can be thought that it is too little or too little. We believe that this period of fifteen days is a time limit that allows Parliament to work and decide fully at its end. Indeed, there is only one exception that had been mentioned in this Parliament and already discussed during the debates in committee. If we cannot wait for 15 days - paradoxically, it was not the majority groups that had expressed it but the opposition groups - what do we do if we cannot wait for 15 days? If we cannot wait for 15 days, there is a paragraph 3 today which speaks of imminent peril whose concept is not fantasized or out of the ground in legal terms. It states that if normal procedures cannot be followed or if normal procedures are likely to cause injury, then we are in a situation of imminent peril. Only in this exception, where the normal procedure could not be followed without consequence and damage, would there be the ability to deal with this imminent peril. The Minister of the Interior, by ministerial decree, must take measures to protect the population. That's the only exception. It is clearly mentioned in the text of Article 3. This concept, I say and I repeat, receives a legal exception which is not subject to any controversy and which does not suffer, in our minds and in those of the majority, from any controversy. Then there is the question of what we are doing and what we are doing for these measures. Again, there have been a series of requests that have been made about the time frame of the measures, their proportionality and their necessity. There, Article 4 should be directly linked to Article 3. Indeed, I think it is important to recall that there is no reference to three months in the text. The term "strictly necessary duration" and "a maximum of three months" means that the assessment and the reasons for the order of the outbreak emergency declaration and measures can only be taken for the time strictly necessary to deal with this epidemic emergency and with a maximum period of three months. Three months is not the ordinary deadline. We must be able to recall this and also recall what has evolved, namely that it is now written black and white that the measures must be necessary, adequate and proportionate to the objective pursued, but also, contrary to what has been done since the beginning of crisis management - and this is a collective awareness - that the measures must not be taken simply by a group of experts or technicians who have been appointed but also by experts, I would remind you, in the field of fundamental rights, of the freedoms of citizens, of the economy - I think the criterion of the economy is important - and of mental health, since we have talked a lot about it. It's now frozen in the law. The measures taken for the strictly necessary and maximum period of three months must be necessary, adequate and proportionate to the objective pursued and be based not only on expert reports but also on expert reports on fundamental rights, economics and mental health. There is also an obligation to inform the House of Representatives prior to the publication of the order in the Belgian Moniteur. Excuse me for a little bit! I think it's also something that may go under the radar, but it's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u25	Mr Aouasti, there is one step missing in your reasoning. You have highlighted the positive changes that have been made. There is one element missing from your reasoning and it remains for us incomprehensible. Why proportionality, reasonableness, etc. Are they not appreciated by Parliament, while maintaining agility for the government to take prompt action within a specified time frame at the beginning of a pandemic, and to pass over to Parliament at a given time to be determined? Why? There's one thing missing from your reasoning. Why is it not the democratic forum par excellence that our Parliament decides on these measures which await individual freedoms and which correlates them with the necessary fight against the pandemic? Why didn't you take that step? This is an essential element missing in this Pandemic Law. The measures, even if they are around human rights experts in particular, remain in the hands of the Government alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u26	Dear colleague, I will answer that question. It is simply the practice, in general, for the legislator to define the framework and delegate the execution of specific measures within the framework of an executive. But we must not forget, Mrs Matz, ladies and gentlemen, an important element. It's called back. This is the basis for administrative law. The legislator may examine this question of the necessity, adequacy and proportionality of the measures taken in a regulatory act. He has the right, as with any order taken by the government, to return it. It's our skill. It is our general competence, as legislator, to be able to report any regulatory act that is taken by the executive. Finally, since we are part of the general framework, the legislator defines the framework. The executive, as in a whole series of other legislations, defines the specific measures. If the legislator, who has received, I would remind you, this decree with these measures and with the reasons relating to necessity, adequacy and proportionality, had to estimate, on the basis of the information, scientific data, that they are not proportional, that they are not legitimate, that they are not adequate - one, two or three - it is for us, in our general competence, to report a regulatory act, in this case a royal decree. This law does not prevent us from doing what we can always do and what we have always been able to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u27	Mr Aouasti, I think that where there is contempt, it is to say that at some point it is the law that must define the general framework and that it is the executive that takes orders. Here, however, the executive gives itself the power to legislate that is conferred on Parliament by the Constitution, by law and by other laws. So this is not an "execution". You know that. It is a matter of legislating on a competence which is that which is at the start of Parliament. That's where your reasoning is truncated. Of course there is a possibility to control later, etc. But from the moment when the executive gives itself the powers that are normally those of Parliament, this is a problem. It is conceivable that it will be granted for a relatively short period at the beginning of a pandemic because the reactivity must be very strong but, after a while, it must hand over to the bodies which are empowered to take the measures, including measures restricting freedoms, i.e. Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u28	Mrs Matz, I have heard you, but our views differ. I think that when the cumulative criteria of strictly necessary duration (three months), proportionality, adequacy and necessity, as well as the criteria of justification in terms of fundamental rights, economics and mental health are taken and, in addition, the whole is bound by a catalogue of measures which is a closed catalogue, it is not true to say that the executive is legislating. It is a numerus clausus of the measures in Article 5. It is within the framework of this Article 5 catalogue that the executive can take action. It may not invent measures which would emerge from that numerus clausus and from that catalogue referred to in Article 5. We therefore do not have the same reading of the legislation. The government is bound by the closed catalogue of Article 5 and cannot go beyond it. Point!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u29	Mr Aouasti, I would simply say that the catalogue is basically the same as what is happening now. Basically, we take the same ones and start over. You know very well that this catalogue is very wide and affects the individual rights and freedoms of every citizen. In this respect, the catalogue is extremely extensive and, because it is aimed at the rights and freedoms of everyone, it should of course go through Parliament, which is the democratic forum par excellence. I note, Mr Aouasti, that you and the whole of Vivaldi, who are so attached to rights and freedoms in some of its components, remain frozen on this element.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u30	I was therefore saying that we are committed to Article 4. Article 5 concerns the catalogue of measures. As Mr Matz and I have just discussed, this is a closed catalogue of measures and not an open catalogue of measures. There was also an important point which had been widely relayed and which had caused a great deal of concern. This is the question of personal data. Here too, an important step has been taken. This is the deletion of former Article 6 of this Act. This removal now allows us to rule out a highly criticized contentious article. It also allows us to send a message to our citizens: "Your personal data concerns us and we will pay great attention to it." With regard to the issue of sentences, this was a matter that had been widely discussed. It concerns the meaning of sentence. Should we or should we not penalize? Are there other ways to implement, promote and enforce measures? As we have always said with my group, the best way to implement measures is for the citizen to adhere to them. And, in order to join, he must understand them. They must therefore be intelligible. In the event that, unfortunately, there is a lack of understanding of the measure and of non-compliance, in order to protect the citizen - sometimes himself - and the others, a catalogue of more restrictive measures has been put in place. This catalogue has also been developed. It is also of interest. It can be seen that the height of the sentences - the minimum threshold in any case - represents a strong and important demand that has been heard. The minimum penalty threshold has been lowered below the "police penalty" threshold. With regard to smart penalties, it is now very clear that, when there are so-called alternative penalties (work sentences, probation sentences, electronic supervision sentences), which also offer the advantage of not being subject to quasi-judicial registration, they may also be subject to educational measures in relation to the element complained of. Finally, with regard to the erasure of the criminal record, it is a crucial element. We do believe that, in exceptional circumstances, measures that are usually not penalized cannot come out of the effects beyond what is necessary. It has now been officially recorded that if a person were to be convicted in court for one of the acts covered by this Act, there would be automatic erasure of the criminal record after three years. It was very important to us; it is also the proof that this law is not intended to drag the consequences of acts that may sometimes be unthinkable, beyond what is strictly necessary, but to bring about appeasement. Beyond a period of three years, this law aims to appease society by ensuring that this criminal record is not dragged like a bully by people who sometimes, unconsciously or with little conscience, have committed certain acts. I am thinking of a non-wearing of the mask, of a gathering of friends, of all these things of normal life, of every day, which are limited, sometimes strictly, in the context of the management of a pandemic, but which can lead, in the general interest, to coercive and repressive measures. We say there will be punishment but also redemption. After three years, the criminal record will be erased. It's really important. Finally, the question of the information of Parliament arises again, since Article 9 provides for automatic monthly information to Parliament, and the arrival of the Minister of the Interior but also ministers who are functionally competent to explain themselves to parliamentarians. We are talking about a monthly report on what is happening, in addition to quarterly monitoring and an evaluation no later than three months after the end of the epidemic emergency. I will conclude with an element that is not yet in the Pandemia Act, but for which the Minister of the Interior had committed herself in committee. It must follow a specific route because of the technical difficulties with it. That is the question of judicial review. Unfortunately, this is too rare in this House, but I have heard a lot that the argument of the judiciary is being mobilised. He remembers us especially in times of crisis. It also exists and controls us, either as an executive or as a legislative body. He is watching, if we have not done so, against the balance of certain rights. He's looking at whether we've taken care of it, whether we've motivated things enough. It oversees the rights of citizens. It is not up to the citizens today, in my opinion, to hear themselves say: "Yes, but you know, a law? Article 142 of the Constitution is not open for revision. You will understand, therefore, that if we put all of this in a law, the Constitutional Court will not have jurisdiction because there is no standard of control to control the pandemic law itself, and so on." And if the epidemic emergency is itself covered by a law, as section 142 is still not open for review and as it can be opened at best only in 2024 and, in my view, at best only in 2026 or 2027, during all this time, if we take a law to declare the epidemic emergency, dear citizens, I am sorry to tell you that there is still no effective judicial control. No. You had to choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u31	Madam President, what Mr Aouasti says is interesting. We proposed that all the articles of the Constitution should be reviewed. If you had gone along with that, that problem would have been solved. I suggest that we avoid that before the next legislature. You are indeed saying here that there may be situations where there are problems that we cannot solve for that reason. That's correct. A useful lesson that we have learned from this power of attorney law is that we should not be reluctant for the next legislature to declare articles subject to review. Don't be too reluctant about that next time. Dear colleague De Roover, I rarely have a reserve. There is an article on the table that is almost unanimous and will be open for revision. This is Article 195. If it's really open, it can fix a lot of things without us having to open up any more. This will also allow the same executive and the same majority to decide to open it and to decide how to modify it, which has been a problem so far. I am sure that makes you very happy, dear colleague. For the rest, I said that the Constitutional Court is therefore not a solution. If the Constitutional Court is not a solution, what is left of us? Today, as legislators, we must look at the rights of citizens, the executive is interested in the rights of citizens, and the judiciary must finally be able to decide and arbitrate if there is a dispute or if there is a claim. Whatever it is, as legitimate or illegitimate as it is, the judiciary must be accessible and be able to decide. There has been a clear commitment by the Minister to this. A job is being done. There will therefore, in my view, be two things to be achieved. The first, perhaps to ease all your torments, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of compliance checks. This is indeed the case with regard to the Royal Decree declaring the situation of epidemic emergency, it is the control of conformity. Is this Royal Order in accordance with the rules and conditions of Article 2? How is this compliance check organised? Today, it is difficult to organize such a control. We're working on it. Tomorrow, there must be a check of compliance with this royal decree on the epidemic emergency situation. Secondly, in relation to the decree of measures and the measures contained therein, it is the criterion and the check of legality. This review of legality exists today for any regulatory act. It's the Council of State. We all know, and this has had to be deplored in certain circumstances, that sometimes the Council of State unfortunately takes time to decide and takes time to deal with situations that are considered urgent. In the face of a case-law which is constant and where purely economic and purely financial damage is not considered an emergency criterion, it can ultimately take time to answer questions and to respond to the challenges of many of our citizens, economic actors, etc. The minister spoke on this in committee. It is a bicameral procedure and therefore it must follow another process. It stated that there would be a form of fast line, i.e. a presumption of urgency in the context of recourse to the Council of State on these measures. The case law on urgency is now laid down. This case law may not be able to respond sufficiently, and sufficiently quickly, to the claims, claims or grievances of our fellow citizens. This fast line will make it possible to assume the urgency, for the rest to be discussed before the Council of State: proportionality, conformity, the legality of the measures taken. The Council of State would not simply examine the admissibility of the urgency. These are two fundamental, dominant elements on which the government is working to date. They will be presented to us and they will adequately complement this legislation. They will, I am sure, ease many concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u32	Mr Aouasti, you highlight one of the major weaknesses of this project, namely judicial or quasi-judicial review. We heard the minister make commitments to that. When Parliament's powers are restricted, why not come at the same time with a bill on urgency in the Council of State? Why were these elements not brought to us at the same time? It's part of the same file, you just said. That's not acceptable! Once the government and the Vivaldi majority had the will to restrict rights and freedoms, there had to be strong judicial or quasi-judicial review, with a bill. That is not the case and it is regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u33	I'll answer in two steps. I cannot let it be said that the will of the majority of Vivaldi is to restrict fundamental freedoms and laws. No! The bill is part of an epidemic emergency situation where, for reasons of public interest, it is considered or may be considered, upon review or notice, that it is necessary or may be necessary to restrict certain fundamental rights and freedoms in order to protect other persons, including the right to health and the general interest. It's not a liberticide law we're taking here. It's an emergency law in an epidemic emergency. Therefore, I cannot let it be said that the will is to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms. That's an important precision. For the second part, the minister committed herself in committee to come with texts. It also informed us of the reasons why the texts could not be examined jointly, namely the bicameral procedure and the special nature of the procedure; the technical difficulty as well, since texts which modify procedural rules, in particular at the level of the Council of State, or which constitute a check of conformity, are not texts which can easily be drawn up. They must be able to think about and weigh them in view of the global implications that may be involved. The minister had made a public commitment to this on two occasions, if I remember correctly. We have to let the cabinets work, we have to let the government work, and the administrations also to circumscribe the matter and, ultimately, to guarantee that procedure, while ensuring that it is thought, weighed and that it cannot derail or derail either. The texts will reach us as soon as possible, I am sure. The minister is diligent in proposing these texts as soon as possible. And except to question the statements that have been made, I believe in the statements of the Minister of the Interior and in the fact that texts will be tabled for discussion here in this Parliament to supplement this legislation properly and usefully. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u34	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, exceptional circumstances require an exceptional approach. We have heard this on several occasions during the discussions on the preliminary draft. No one will contradict that, but there is a fundamental difference between taking necessary exceptional measures and drastically reducing the fundamental freedoms of citizens for a long time. Exceptional circumstances still require compliance with the Constitution. Much has already been said by previous speakers about the protective nature of that Constitution, but that is just to protect our fundamental fundamental rights in times of crisis. Legally rattles the Corona approach of the past year. The use of that old law to this day has been cited here several times. That law was passed in 2007 in order to be able to act quickly in the event of, for example, an explosion. First, fundamental freedoms were restricted for a long time by powers of attorney and then by unclear ministerial decisions. All the constitutional specialists agreed at the hearings on the preliminary draft that the approach adopted was not the right approach, and it is not often that constitutional specialists agree on something touchingly. The way in which these fundamental rights were restricted in this country without any parliamentary control by means of ministerial decisions can only be described as a real disgrace to democracy, which this government is full of. In any normal democracy, there should be a thorough debate on such fundamental interventions when it comes to the fundamental rights of the population. Many of the corona measures we have had in the past year affect those fundamental rights: the right to assembly, living, education, private life, enterprise and so on. That need can break temporary law should not be a free pass to maintain absurd measures with monster fines without a parliamentary debate. We were given a pizza box of state intervention deep into privacy, and despite repeated questions, there was also no answer on the scientific basis of the measures. It has been based on the urgency laws for far too long, and that has only created legal uncertainty. The many judgments of several courts illustrate that. A good pandemic law is therefore necessary. There was a discussion about whether or not a pandemic law is needed, but I am absolutely right that a good pandemic law is needed, Madam Secretary. It is always a risk to agree with a CD&V, because there is a good chance that he or she has already changed his mind. A good pandemic law is indeed needed. It was a good thing that a number of necessary adjustments were made to the text after the preliminary draft was discussed. Following the destructive advice of the Data Protection Authority, a number of privacy issues were rightly removed, and also for a number of other elements of the present draft, inter alia with regard to criminal differentiation, account was taken of the numerous expert opinions formulated and comments made by our group. That was necessary, but many fundamental improvements are still needed, because the design remains largely what it is after the adjustments. I can only call it a special power law. I am glad that we have not approved the mandates of the previous temporary government, but what is before us today is actually a clear move for far-reaching emergency measures and goes much further. Our essential criticism therefore remains valid and is threefold. It is not just the very broad definition of the concept of an epidemic emergency. The lack of a contradictory parliamentary debate and control also means that abuses cannot be ruled out in the future. We cannot accept the fact that, in certain cases, the federal level, without the consent of the Länder, can intervene in the policy of those states. Mr Van Hecke is not here, he may take a lunch break, but I cannot share his joy. He rightly refers to the rather unique procedure for discussing the preliminary draft and the rather unique procedure for adding all opinions to a report. That's all very nice and fun. If, however, that leads to the cure being worse than the disease, if the ultimate result is that we get a bill that threatens democracy, then I think he is satisfied with a dead sparrow. I come back to my three fundamental points of criticism. Firstly, the definition of an epidemic emergency is far too broad. "Every event that causes or may cause a serious threat, affects or may affect a large proportion of people, affects or affects health and which leads or may lead to one or more of the following consequences," the design reads. The more "can" it be used in a definition, the more hypothetical and the wider it is and the wider its scope. In the definition of the epidemic emergency, the word "kan" is used four times. Not only can this proposal be interpreted too widely, it can also be applied to epidemic situations which are not epidemic emergencies. I have already said this during the discussions in committee. A number of changes to the definition have already been made, but they do not offer any relief. It has now been added that it must be a serious health damage. The word "serious" was added, but what is serious? According to every virologist, a seasonal flu falls under that category. In a second amendment to the definition, the condition of over-mortality was deleted. There may well be thorough reasons for these adjustments. I have heard Professor Niel Hens' arguments in the hearings, but that adjustment makes the concept even wider. You've dropped another condition. My fear that the implementation of the epidemic situation can be interpreted far too widely is not at all away with these adjustments, quite the contrary. Nor am I the only one who has expressed these concerns in the discussion of the draft. This was pointed out by the governors in the hearings. They found the terminology far too complex for an emergency. The Order of Flemish Baries also advocated a much tighter definition and considered this to be far too hypothetical. Professor Marc Verdussen even mentioned a blank cheque at the hearings. He also pointed out the importance of defining boundaries and asked for more specification. Professor Vuye stated in his written opinion that the concept of an epidemic emergency is also very broadly defined. The fact that an epidemic emergency is a concrete threat and not a virtual one, as well as the fact that it is a unique situation, are two aspects which are not sufficiently reflected in the definition. We have an amendment ready to respond to these comments. This is necessary because too broad a definition opens the door to abuse. One can quite rightly ask oneself what will be the next. What next event will justify putting our democracy out of play? What will be the next thing that will enable us to restrict our freedoms without a parliamentary debate? The seasonal flu? A flu epidemic? An election result you don't like? With this design you open the doors. Maybe it will be climate anxiety that will be triggered into an epidemic or an imminent catastrophe. On 5 February 2020, today's green excellences Tine Van der Straeten and Sarah Schlitz submitted a parliamentary resolution to declare climate and environmental emergencies. So I sincerely wonder what's next. This draft of pandemic law opens the door to abuse. It is not only the very broad definition that encourages this, but also the lack of contradictory parliamentary debate and control. In particular, this will ensure that abuses cannot be ruled out in the future. It is important, however, that this draft should no longer work through ministerial decisions but through KBs and that the entire government should be responsible, not just the Minister of the Interior. The 15-day deadline has also been debated. The House will now decide, after a maximum of 15 days, whether or not to agree to the pandemic emergency. But the important thing is that the Chamber is out of control as soon as she does this. We have a fundamental problem with that. In your design you give a long list of possible far-reaching restrictions of freedom. With such measures, it should be up to Parliament not only to debate them, but also to decide on them. It should then be up to Parliament to vote on this and to monitor proportionality and proportionality. The Council of State stated in its opinion that the draft assumes that the principle of proportionality will be applied in conjunction with the precautionary principle. In this context, the Legislative Section of the Council of State refers in its opinion to the settled case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, that principle of proportionality requires that acts of those EU institutions should not go beyond what is appropriate and necessary for the achievement of legitimate objectives pursued by that scheme, provided that, where there is a choice between several appropriate measures, the least burdensome should be chosen and the disadvantages caused should not be disproportionate in relation to the objective pursued. You have undoubtedly been aware of that settled case law of the Court of Justice for some time now. That is why I find it so amazing that we have had a curfew here for more than 200 days. I still wonder how this can be brought into line with the principle of proportionality and why it took more than six months before a cooperation ban was introduced to replace that curfew. Because it is easier for enforcement, we have heard excellence. That is certainly not a valid reason to put the Constitution aside. In fact, there has not been a detailed debate on this subject, in order to stick to the example of that curfew, to the questions that we have asked about it, within the two-minute time limit imposed. The N-VA has made an attempt with a legislative proposal to get that on the agenda, to force that debate. Egbert Lachaert, the President of Open Vld, promised in February on Twitter that there would be a debate about that curfew, but it never came. It will not be possible with this design in the future either. This draft does not guarantee any debate on the measures. The draft provides for the government to report to the Chamber each month. However, the explanatory statement states that this may be a written or oral report, depending on the request made by Members of Parliament. We know how the majority of MEPs always follow the government. You also know that a written report does not guarantee any parliamentary debate. I also read an interesting opinion piece, in Het Laatste Nieuws, early this month. I'd like to quote a bit from that. "A solid parliamentary debate before another curfew is introduced, with the law before it, is still not a guarantee. However, the Dutch Parliament has shown us that asking for Parliament's approval does not have to be a waste of time. One day it was voted. Why wouldn't it be possible in this country? Unfortunately, in the text before us, the role of the People's Representatives remains limited. It is surprising that Members of this House who have fought hard and hard for a strong dynamic Parliament over the last few years seem not to object to this. Would opposition leader Kristof Calvo at the time have approved this Pandemic Law if it came from the Michel government?" Mr Calvo is not often here anymore, but I believe that asking the question is an immediate answer. However, the many communications blunders of both governments during the Corona crisis are the ultimate proof that a parliamentary debate is necessary in a democratic rule of law. Even a debate is not enough. The debate should decide on these measures. Occasionally a non-binding written report is far from sufficient. Parliament's extensive control over the government is never an unnecessary luxury in this country. The striking thing is that with this pandemic law, Parliament is putting itself out of business. The third fundamental element that we have a problem with is the transfer of powers. The Green-Red-Blue Unitarists of the Vivaldi government have not only abused the corona crisis in order to eliminate Parliament, but also to transfer a great deal of powers from the Länder back to the federal level. We cannot accept the fact that the role and powers of the Communities and the Regions are being further undermined. During the committee discussions, I demonstrated very extensively that the proposed pandemic law draws powers from the federal government which, according to the Constitution and the special law governing the reform of the institutions, belong to the Communities. Don't worry, I won't repeat that long speech. But I would like to give a different quote to those Members who were laughing about it or who were annoyed and especially those who did so as irrelevant, today, 14 July, to show that they can be quite wrong. Reference has already been made today to the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789. Now, Louis XVI wrote in his diary at night after the storm, "No rien." So you can be very wrong about what you, ladies and gentlemen, consider irrelevant. All measures that can be taken on the basis of the present pandemic law are part of a preventive health policy for which the Communities are constitutionally competent. In the case of crisis situations, this exclusive competence of the Communities is weakened. In this case there is a shared competence of the federal government and the Communities for preventive health policy according to the parliamentary preparatory work of the special law, the Council of State and the law. The Flemish Interest does not accept that the federal government is abusing the corona crisis in order to draw on extensive powers regarding the promulgation of the emergency and far-reaching measures that can be taken in that context. The passive attitude of the Flemish government in the current corona crisis, at least not assertive, cannot therefore be taken as a benchmark for the future. It is not because the Flemish Government has been de facto acting as a subordinate government over the past year, that this attitude must be confirmed in the present pandemic law. It is not because the Flemish Prime Minister gave the impression that he was present on Consultation Committees as a rabbit for a light box, that such regional passivity should be laid down for the future. The far-reaching measures contained in the pandemic law, which largely concern Community powers, simply cannot be regulated by law. They should be the subject of a cooperation agreement between all the competent authorities, namely the federal government and the Länder. The Flemish Interest has always warned that the corona crisis should not lead to a Belgian coronacoup. [[Unfortunately, however, today we have no choice but to see that this has happened.]] Since it is not acceptable to us that, in certain cases, the federal level can intervene in the policy of the Länder without the consent of the Länder, we in the Flemish Parliament have filed a conflict of interest against the pandemic law. But that was what happened in a participation - voted away by all other Flemish colleagues. Unfortunately, the Flemish majority parties chose to beg for consultation with the Vivaldi parties by means of a resolution rather than to force that necessary consultation through a conflict of interest. Too bad, but unfortunately. In any case, with our amendments today, we are making an ultimate attempt to correct that. We have tabled several amendments to make it a good pandemic law. These amendments have passed the test of the Council of State much better than the present draft. These are amendments for which I count on the support of the majority, if the majority parties take the view of the Minister of the Interior to heart. Madam Minister, on 30 June last, you stated in De Morgend on this pandemic law that: "We are striving for the greatest possible transparency. All scientific advice will be transmitted before action is taken." If you are serious about what you said there, then you will have no problem with it if colleagues support our amendments. That is precisely what is causing all the opinions to be submitted, rather than just the opinions that one chooses. After all, that's what your design says now. In that same radio interview, you spoke about increasing parliamentary involvement and control. That is fundamental and we have tabled amendments on it, such as the ratification of those restrictive measures by Parliament within seven days. The Council of State, in its opinion on that amendment, stated that it did not require it, but it did not oppose it either. The Council of State's opinion on my amendment says that 'of course nothing prevents the legislator from providing for such ratification, given the far-reaching nature of the measures, in order to increase the democratic acceptance of the measures'. Then I wonder what keeps you from turning your own radio statements into action. What are you preventing us from supporting our amendments? What is preventing you from actually increasing this parliamentary involvement and control? The Council of State will not prevent you from doing so. The lack of parliamentary control, the far too broad definition of the epidemic emergency and the lack of recognition of the division of powers are in any case preventing the Flemish interest from adopting this pandemic law. We are not giving this government and the future free hand to take measures that are devoid of liberty. We do not allow them to violate unnecessary fundamental rights. We will do what thousands of citizens have specifically asked us to do by e-mail, namely vote this pandemic law away. Madam Secretary, once this pandemic law has been published, the road to the Constitutional Court is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u35	Mrs Gilson, before giving you the floor, I would like to point out that I have received amendments on the bill on temporary support measures because of the covid-19 pandemic (No. 2070). Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you communicate them to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. No observation? [[No]] Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] That will be the case. Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u36	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 March our Parliament began an innovative legislative procedure, involving Parliament from the very beginning of the draft submitted today to the vote of our House. After the vote on the text in the Committee on the Interior, the opposition tabled amendments in plenary twice and voted in favour of sending them to the Council of State for its opinion. More than four months have passed since March 3. It is therefore wrong to say, as is done in some instances, that this bill would be voted on by the Hussard. In my view, it helps to create an unsubstantiated emotion in the population. Parliament has really been able to play its role upstream, to take the time to hear experts, the academic world and civil society on a preliminary draft. Through a report, he told you, the minister and the government, of her concerns, her demands and the outcome of all these hearings. The time has been taken to do things right. This project obviously cannot meet everyone's expectations because they are different – it is normal – and sometimes even irreconcilable. There is no doubt that there is a need to establish a solid legal basis for the measures which, until now, are based on the 2007 Act. Nevertheless, the crisis continues. It changes the deal. If the judgment of the Court of Appeal of 7 June on the interim order of the Brussels Court of First Instance of 31 March last validates the governmental method, we welcome it. However, the judgment does not exclude the need to create a specific legal basis. Here we go. However, was there a need for a general law covering all pandemics? As we have said several times, the MR was not convinced that this is the way forward. However, this draft is a compromise text in all senses of the word. How can it be otherwise when such an extreme pandemic situation requires a delicate balance between the restriction of fundamental freedoms such as the freedom to go and come, the freedom to work, the freedom to go to school, and the State's obligation to manage this exceptional health situation to the best of its citizens' health? The MR remains convinced that restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms should at all times be limited to what is strictly necessary. Is the text presented today therefore an acceptable compromise for the MR? The answer is yes. However, its application in the context of the coronavirus pandemic will have to be clearly assessed through the prism of fundamental rights. If necessary, the legislation will need to be adapted, replaced or amended. This is really a rendezvous clause under clause 10 of the bill. It applies to this pandemic that we are currently living in and, if it is bought, in case the law should still be used, it will be worth it for all possible future applications of this law. This evaluation is really the sine qua non of the MR Group's vote on this project today. This assessment and this appointment clause enshrined in the law will require us, at a time when serenity will once again prevail, to ask ourselves about the appropriateness of correcting the shot. We all receive many e-mails from concerned fellow citizens. We understand that they are certainly resilient, but at the end and worried. At the same time, the number of cases is starting to increase again, and a possible fourth wave is already mentioned in autumn. Everything will have to be done – and it is up to everyone to take responsibility – to avoid it. We will also have to live with the virus from now on. We believe that this project, following the amendments adopted in response to the hearings and the opinion of the Council of State, now brings more democratic guarantees, more involvement of Parliament, that is, elected representatives chosen by the citizens, more transparency and more balance between the various interests involved, than the current legal situation. The second opinion of the Council of State also validates this analysis. Let us remember that this is a law that will adapt to a situation of extreme health emergency, caused by a contagious disease that affects or is likely to affect a large number of people in Belgium, and seriously affect their health. Under the conditions listed in the draft law, there will also need to be a serious real or potential impact on the health care system and the need to coordinate crisis management at the national level. All these conditions are cumulative and mark the use of this pandemic law for very serious health crises, such as the one we are experiencing today. It will not apply to a simple small disease confined in a few communes In terms of democratic guarantees, tomorrow it is Parliament that will decide whether or not to confirm the royal decree of declaration of epidemic emergency – a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, therefore with the accession of all members of the government – as well as any successive royal decrees to maintain this epidemic emergency, knowing that the first royal decree of triggering and all the others of maintenance will never be longer than three months. The House will have 15 days to decide, to confirm or not these royal decrees. It will have scientific data, an analysis of the risks on which the government has based itself, and will, as usual, be able to use all the information channels it deems useful to form its opinion and make its decision. It may use written opinions, reports, hearings, consultations, etc. If the House does not confirm the Royal Emergency Epidemic Order or the successive Royal Orders made at the end of each three months, they will cease to produce their effects. Parliament therefore retains its hand and control. In fifteen days, he will have time to exercise the latter. Initially, the project provided for five days. It is therefore a guarantee to be welcomed. This will obviously also be a great responsibility for the House, because, in response to the opinion of the Council of State, it is now confirmed that, if Parliament decides not to approve the royal decree of declaration of emergency in the event of an epidemic, it will not be possible to use either the 2007 law or the 1963 law. With regard to the transparency and oversight of Parliament, the draft also provides for the government to report to Parliament on a monthly basis on both the epidemic emergency and its possible continuation, and to report on administrative police measures. At that time, it will be up to Parliament to debate and consider whether the measures are necessary, adequate and proportionate. This is in addition to the control that our Parliament is already exercising today through questions and inquiries. In recent months, we have often heard that Parliament is under a bell, that Parliament is not intervening. We are well aware, however, that weekly debates on all covid measures are taking place in the Committee on Health and in plenary. It should also be borne in mind that at any time Parliament may choose to repeal the Emergency Epidemic Confirmation Act, which will result in the cessation of administrative police measures. If, even after confirmation, the emergency is valid for three months, Parliament considers that the epidemic emergency is no longer present, it may very well decide to repeal the law by which it confirmed this epidemic emergency. In addition, since Parliament will have to confirm the Royal Order of Tribute or Retention, whenever the government is forced to maintain the epidemic emergency situation after three months, it is clear that an important debate will again take place in Parliament to consider whether or not the government's decision to make a royal order to maintain the epidemic emergency situation is justified, adequate, proportionate. With regard to administrative police measures and contrary to the opposition, I believe that it is up to the executive and not to the legislative power to decide, at a time x and often in an emergency, what measures should be taken, what measures should be used. To everyone their role in our State. Our democracy is made up of this balance between the legislative, executive and judicial branches. We have not asked and we do not ask for Parliament to take the place of executive power. For the MR, however, it was important that there should be three benchmarks for these administrative police measures decided by the executive branch. First, the rule must be that these measures should be decided by a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. It will therefore no longer be decided by the only or only Minister of the Interior. Minister, don't take it personally! Don't take it personally! It is only in the event of imminent peril and for measures which cannot be delayed that they will still have to be taken by ministerial decree but deliberate in the Council of Ministers. Examples of a ban on return flights from India were cited when there was the delta variant and other measures that had to be taken within a few hours. Secondly, the rule will now be that these administrative police measures will be taken after hearing from experts but experts whose multidisciplinarity is now ensured in the law, experts in fundamental rights, economics and mental health. It's written in the law. These are not just considerations. Experts in these specific areas, it seems to us extremely important, especially if, as now, the crisis continues. It is then essential to listen to experts who are not only focused on the epidemic risk, on virology. The administrative police measures, as we have seen, have extremely damaging consequences for different audiences and for different sectors of our country. A comprehensive and multidisciplinary approach is therefore needed. For the MR, Madam Minister, it is essential that a quick solution be found to the other pillar of the control of measures restricting freedom: the judicial and effective control that must be guaranteed with regard to these administrative police measures. We call for an amendment of the coordinated laws of the Council of State so that the urgency is presumed in the event of an appeal against the police measures. We will remain attentive. I have every confidence that you and your office are already working on this and we will come back to you to obtain information on the progress of this essential guarantee so that our legislation complies with the requirements of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe regarding states of emergency and restrictions of freedom. This effective judicial review must be guaranteed, even if it is complicated, since a bicameral procedure must be applied. However, it is worth it. I take this rostrum to say that the MR Group is pleased that the article on the processing of personal data has been removed from the preliminary draft. It is Parliament that must decide when using personal data – not anonymous data. Anonymous data can be used without any problems, but once personal data including names, addresses and which can be traced back to the persons whose data are processed, it is the elected assembly that decides which data is used, for what purpose and by whom. This can be done through a cooperation agreement, since it also affected the powers of the federated entities, but ultimately this must be validated by Parliament in order to comply, in particular, with the general European Data Protection Regulation. Another important aspect for the MR is the transparency of scientific data and the transparency of the work of the experts who draw up these data. This is the basis for people's adherence to the measures and therefore for compliance with those measures. The bill addresses this concern of transparency. The scientific data on the basis of the Royal Epidemic Emergency Release Order – and possible royal prolongation orders – will be published. The public will be able to access them in a completely transparent manner. The opinions on the basis of which the orders of police action will be made will be communicated to the Presidency of the House, so we will be able to have access to them. Secondly, I would like to point out that the experts consulted by the government will have to complete a declaration of interest in order to ascertain whether there is a conflict of interest or not between their advisory role with the government or with other bodies or private firms. They will have to adhere to a code of ethics. On paper, these provisions therefore effectively ensure the transparency required repeatedly during hearings. We will see in practice how this will all be organised and whether it will be enough to restore the confidence of our fellow citizens in the soundness of the measures taken. I sincerely hope so, and I believe that this text is a positive step that should be welcomed. In addition, in cases of non-compliance with police measures, the project now provides for penalties for contraventions rather than only for correctional penalties. There is therefore a complete range of alternative penalties. Expanding the range of penalties is really a good thing to ensure adequate proportionality between the seriousness of the offence and the sanction. There is a difference between not wearing a mask and organizing a lockdown party. From now on, judges will have at their disposal a range of sanctions that will enable them to apply them more adequately and proportionately. In addition, there will be automatic cancellation of the record after a period of three years, in the event of a conviction for a criminal offence. Indeed, the record may be a brake on the world of work and may not be wearing a mask on the street, in the event that a judge still decides to grant or sentence a correctional sentence, cannot be a barrier to the integration of our citizens into the world of work, for example. My intervention soon ends with an element on which the MR has always expressed his reluctance: that of the requisition. We would have preferred a separate law, only in case of the need to requisition reagents, for example. As we know, there have been orders to requisition reagents or curare to treat patients in the event of a shortage. In the end, there has been a transposition of the 2007 law, which provides for the requisition, but this is a consequence of the opinion of the Council of State. The latter said it was important to anticipate this. One positive point is that the requisition provisions are stricter than in the 2007 law. In fact, making the requisition falls within the competence of the King and is not the subject of a ministerial decree. Madam Minister, the progress made between the preliminary draft, which we have seen at the beginning of March, and today's text, is undeniably considerable. The balance is difficult to find between speed and democratic control, between efficiency and legality, between respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and the management of public health in the event of an extreme health crisis. Let us not forget that health protection is also enshrined in our Constitution! This law provides more democratic guarantees in relation to the legal situation we are currently experiencing. We will evaluate this law at the end of the pandemic, as provided for in Article 10, and we will decide at this time, in complete serenity, what should happen to this law: will it need to be improved, deleted, replaced? In the meantime, the MR Group will support this text, which tomorrow will serve as a legal basis for the administrative police measures, possibly necessary for the management of the covid crisis, which I hope will be of the shortest possible duration, because everyone is really at a standstill, but we must stand by. And this law, Minister, will allow you to manage the future as best you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. It goes without saying that the COVID-19 crisis has greatly affected the lives of all of us. The colleague said it: 'We must persevere'. We're tired of all these measures. But at the same time, with every increase in figures, we fear that the end of the tunnel is not yet in sight. With that concern we are all, including many who are now making holiday plans. However, I also think that this crisis has brought out the best in ourselves: care providers, safety professionals, volunteers, local administrators and so many Belgians who have followed the measures very strictly. But they're interfering with our private lives, that goes without saying. This requires a good legal basis and it also requires support. I have noted that these views have evolved during the crisis. At the beginning it was quite simple to have powers of attorneys, colleagues! In addition to this, it is important to ensure that the European Parliament and the Council are fully involved in the implementation of the Union's common foreign and security policy, in particular in the area of justice and home The decisions taken pursuant to these powers of attorneys did not provoke much polemic during the debates in committee, as Mr De Roover has just said. When those powers of attorney expired and the government issued decisions in current cases in application of the Civil Security Act, that did not provoke much polemic at first either. Actually, it only came during the second wave, when we began to realize that we weren't ready so soon, more nervousness and more criticism. At that time, constitutionalists also began to make critical observations, not earlier. I note that everyone in this house, even those who will vote against tomorrow, wanted a pandemic bill. I note that everyone in this assembly actually says that this draft represents an improvement on the current situation; this was also said during the hearings by people who were very critical. Nevertheless, I must also note that the current legal basis has passed the judicial test. The Council of State, as Mr De Roover rightly said, does not review it on the basis of the Constitution, nor does it do anything about pragmatism, for it simply takes a legality test, not a pragmatic test. The ordinary civil courts, of course, do, and they even have the opportunity to declare measures inapplicable under the Constitution. Some have done so, and they have been dismissed on appeal. The vast majority of the case-law I have given you an overview of this here. The objectives are particularly important. The principles are: a broader specific legal basis with more legal certainty, focusing solely on health protection, of a temporary nature, transparently established with the use of experts from different fields of expertise, in consultation with the Länder and with Parliament's control and with the legal protection of citizens. I think we meet these principles. For the specific legal base we're developing right now, we didn't go ice in one night. The criticism has been made that an epidemic emergency is far too broad an understanding. In any case, there is parliamentary control and ratification, which are absolutely necessary. However, there is also the legal limitation. Mr De Roover, in that sense, the definition of emergency situations in your legislative proposal is much wider than this definition, which only refers to health and an infectious agent that seriously endangers health. The definition of the emergency situation in the design is more limited than in your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u38	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, of course that definition is more limited because we wanted to protect Parliament's role in all these circumstances. We have therefore defined the concept of an emergency more broadly, because our proposal guarantees the role of Parliament with a provision enabling it to act acutely when necessary. Our proposal is not only about pandemics, but also about confirming and guaranteeing the role of Parliament in these other circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u39	Mr De Roover, your proposal lays it down by law. De facto, it is also laid down by law here, because we must ratify it within 14 days, and we also have the possibility to do so more quickly if we believe that it should be done more quickly. However, the corset is much smaller than yours because it focuses very specifically and only on epidemic conditions. Moreover, in the course of those 14 days, if it confirms this, the government may take action in this respect, but it could do so in your proposal. In the event of extreme urgency, you will allow it, but it will have to be ratified afterwards. The corset is limited to health and we can only take measures to prevent or mitigate the effects of an epidemic. We do this in consultation with experts from various fields of expertise and with a royal decision discussed in the Council of Ministers. As far as the measures are concerned, too, we are more limited than the proposal I referred to earlier. The measures are also more limited, because they are exhaustively listed. There's nothing out there. I did not read that limitation in the other proposal. Of course, the case law of the Council of State should also be legally anchored in terms of necessity, suitability and in relation to the objectives. I do not think anyone doubts that the temporary nature has been met, with a maximum period of three months and a debate at least every month. I just heard that once we ratify this we're putting ourselves out of play. No, we're not getting out of the game. If, in a manner of speaking, we were to ratify and find a week later that there is no more epidemic, we would be able to withdraw that ratification perfectly. We can do that in 24 hours. So we're not out of the game. I believe that the conditions for transparency, the obligation to advise experts and the reports have been met. I come to the consultation with the Länder. That is explicitly stated in the law, and that seems to me to be the logic itself. When it comes to health, and that is what we are talking about here, we know that, even with our country's current state structure, we do not have exclusive powers in one government or in another. It was rightly pointed out just now that the Council of State had issued a very interesting opinion on jurisdiction. There is no excess of competence at all, but there are some shared competences. That requires consultation; that is what we have done. In practice, we have done so by consensus in the Conciliation Committee. I read that the Special Committee COOVID-19 recommends that the Consultative Committee should play a crucial role in pandemics in the future. In this way, the special committee confirms the practice that has been practiced. I think that is a good practice in this area, so I can only endorse it. Now I come to Parliament's control. In this context, I hear heavy statements, if Parliament is locked up or democracy is out of play. Those harsh statements are made for one reason only. The Government shall make a decision after consultation with experts and after consulting the Minister for Health. Parliament should confirm the occurrence of an epidemic. This should be done in consultation with the Länder. If this is not ratified, some speakers say that Parliament is out of the question. However, nothing is less true. I have just said that within 24 hours Parliament will be able to undo the epidemic if it so wishes. What is parliamentary practice? If opinions from experts have been received, this will be debated in Parliament in no time. The monthly reports, whether written or oral, are also being debated. Since this government took office, we have worked constantly on the basis of the Civil Security Act. Hasn't there been any parliamentary scrutiny? To the pleasure of the Chambers, thousands of questions have been asked. There have been topical debates, there have been interplays and motions. The parliamentary debate has therefore taken place more than once. That did not only happen a posteriori, also a priori. For some measures or ministerial decisions, it takes a long time before they are issued, before the text is published in the Belgian Official Journal. Advice from experts, discussions with experts, consultation with the Länder, agreements in the Consultation Committee, translation into a draft MB and then put it in the Belgian Official Journal. What happened in the meantime? Did we sit still? No, this Parliament did not sit still. It was debating and asking questions. How many times have we debated here on Thursday what might be decided on Friday in the Conciliation Committee? There was pre-control. There was post-control. Following this draft law, the control will only be strengthened, because the corset will be smaller than the civil security law and because there are specific restrictions in the law and there are also specific control options, which were not included in the civil security law. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, if this House does not agree with the KB issued by the government after consultation with the Länder, then we will soon be able to undo this KB by law. So we're not putting ourselves out of operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u40	Colleagues, I know that ratification has symbolic importance and that it is not legally irrelevant, I am not going to minimize it, but let us be honest, in the outbreak of the first wave we issued decisions in March, in application of the Power of Power Act and from 1 July, in application of the Civil Security Act. When did we ratify those power of attorney decisions between March and July? We endorsed it in this House at the beginning of December nine months later. I may have mentioned that in committee once disrespectful mustard after the meal. In fact, I would like to say that in the meantime we have the usual parliamentary means of control, which could be called upon much earlier if you think that the measures would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u41	Mr Verherstraeten, I'm glad you're making the comparison. At that time it was decided that we would have to ratify it within the year after the measures were taken. I have just noticed that even that is not foreseen now. For the rest, I fully agree with you that you are making that comparison, because you implicitly admit that we are talking about a power of attorney law. It was then about a power of attorney law, and even now it is about a law that gives special powers to the government. So you actually confirm that the pandemic law is a power of attorney law by drawing the parallel with what happened then. I repeat, however, that we are now talking about a power of attorney law which does not even provide for Parliament's late ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u42	No, because by a power of attorney we delegate our full parliamentary powers to the government and we do not do that here. We are only giving the government the opportunity to adopt certain measures in very exceptional circumstances that we lay down by law. This does not prevent us from adopting measures at the same time and, in other words, voting on legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u43	That is the case with powers of attorney, Mr Verherstraeten. It is not because we give powers to the government that Parliament would suddenly be prohibited from taking legislative initiatives. In this respect, therefore, you are referring to a situation which is identical to the situation in the case of powers of attorney. There is also no fixed proxy template: this is considered on a case-by-case basis according to the situation. Also in the case of proxy powers, the delegation of powers is always subject to demarcations, so what you describe is simply the definition of a proxy law. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u44	No, because there is a difference between powers of attorney and special powers. First of all, there is no question at all of us giving powers to the government. The opposite is true. Secondly, if the law were to be adopted in the near future and published in the Belgian Official Journal, it would simply allow the government to take measures in this area which are laid down within the framework of this legal instrument, no more and no less. A power of attorney law is much more extensive than that. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the legal protection of citizens and businesses, which is crucial to me. For many of you, it's crucial. Know that, if the government wishes to declare a state of emergency, it will have to seek prior advice from the Legislative Department of the Council of State. Know that, if the government takes measures by royal decree, the same advisory obligation exists under the Law Department of the Council of State. Once the decisions have been taken, there is the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State. There is also an urgent need for ordinary judges to be able to act in the event of a breach of subjective rights, for interim judges to be able to act very quickly and, if necessary, for a preliminary ruling. However, this takes time, as Mr Van Hecke rightly said. Even at the time of ratification of the epidemic emergency, when it occurs by law, there is access to the Constitutional Court, but there is still access to the ordinary courts, which can declare this inapplicable. That possibility exists. She even exists in summary proceedings. Colleagues, the conditions I have just defined are in place with regard to this draft law. This has been the subject of an in-depth debate on several occasions. It is logical and should be done in this way, because there is a constant need to balance different interests, namely between the rights and freedoms of citizens and the health of the whole population, between flexibility and legitimacy and also with respect for privacy. This draft law makes it a healthy balance. I hope that, once the law is in force and the epidemic emergency is declared, the measures which will then be proclaimed will be sufficiently effective and respected by the population, so that the crisis can be overcome as quickly as possible and with caution, at least manage the virus and return to a new normal. It may be more cautious than before the crisis. In any case, we will do it with the control of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the substance, I would like to return to the procedure and the way in which we have dealt with this draft. Clearly, putting the bill in discussion from the outset was something unusual, again. This allowed us to audition experts. This allowed us to criticize and disagree with this bill. But this new procedure, which initially seemed quite positive, proved to be harmful to parliamentary work. Indeed, once the final draft had arrived, we were deprived of the opportunity to request new opinions and hearings. I would remind you that the experts voted on a preliminary draft. The Council of State gave its opinion on a preliminary draft. But we do not have expert advice on the bill as it is tabled, to see if it responds to their criticisms or not, whether it is in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of State or not. We don't know that. This is something that has been taken away from us by this new procedure. I'm going back to the reason for my doubts. Although I can be assured that comments have been taken into account, we see that, on the substance, little has changed, in the sense that the main criticism of the experts was the transfer of power from the legislature to the executive. The debate on fundamental rights, which is a prerogative of Parliament, is delegated to the executive. This criticism is still valid. I wish I had the opinion of the constitutionalists on the bill. That was not possible. The second element concerns the Council of State. I have tried several times, not to have a second opinion from the Council of State on the same draft bill, since the Council of State had examined it, but to have an opinion on a very important measure, which was added to the final bill, and which did not exist in the draft bill. This is the question of the requisitions of the staff, a subject on which there is no opinion of the Council of State, nor of the views of the trade unions. I wish to express my regret at the fact that the procedure failed to comply with the rules and recommendations of the Council of State, which requested that the draft be given to it for consideration if there were changes that went beyond its recommendations, which was the case. Unfortunately, this has not been done. That being said, the law before us today does not bring anything new to the democratic level, on the contrary it is even a regression. It takes over the special powers procedure, formalizes it and perpetuates it. Since the beginning of the crisis, the whole initiative has been given to the government. And with this law, it will also be the case for all similar crises in the future. It is the government that decides to launch the epidemic emergency. Parliament has only the right to confirm ex post facto. It acts as a simple board of registration or endorsement of the government's decision. This government regards parliamentarians as button presses and it is well known that it is more difficult to discuss when faced with the fait accompli than when a real debate takes place upstream. This is what is criticized for this law in the first place: it deprives Parliament of an upstream debate and only gives it the opportunity to act afterwards. Once the situation has begun, it is still the government, and in some cases the minister herself, and even the governors and mayors, who are completely at work. They decide what measures they dictate by decree. If Parliament wants to challenge them, it must go through a legislative procedure. Again, he is faced with the fait accompli. He is just given the right to be informed through the President of Parliament. In addition to excluding Parliament, this law does not include civil society either. Citizens themselves are not included at any point in the procedure, even though they are the first to be affected by the measures that would be put in place. The law gives the government the right to change working conditions without any consultation with trade unions. The Act also provides for the possibility of requisitioning workers at the request of the government or the minister. Again, they are not asked for their opinion. We know that the previous government's attempt on this issue had led to a lifting of shields on the side of the unions. This time, their opinion was not sought at the stage of drafting this provision - which was absent from the preliminary draft - and is not provided for in it as such, since it does not mention any social consultation. This law considers rights and freedoms only from a restrictive perspective. The aim is to prevent rallies, restrict privacy and limit movement. The government views rights and freedoms as an obstacle to the management of a pandemic. However, if the crisis has shown something, ladies and gentlemen, it is that such a period requires precisely that the government's action be framed, instead of all the keys entrusted to it. Rather than allowing ministerial offices to decide on their own, it is necessary to involve as many people as possible. Parliament, as well as civil society and trade unions - which represent workers - must be involved in decision-making. It is the people who will undergo and apply the measures and are on the front line. For this reason, they must be able to decide. Experience shows that it is in the widest and most diverse groups that the best decisions can be made. Rather than forcefully requisitioning the workers, by seeking nurses in police suits, it is necessary to seek the advice of the unions and consult them, because they have talents and expertise and want to respect the measures and to get out of the epidemic - often against the opinion of the big companies, as we saw in Jupille. Instead of seeing rights and freedoms as an obstacle to be rid of in times of crisis, a positive approach to them is essential. The question has to be asked in the other direction: how can this be done by ensuring the safety of people in times of pandemics? It is in this direction that we must reflect, not in the opposite direction. A second aspect is the question of effectiveness, or rather the ineffectiveness of the Act. The method of combating the pandemic that this law wants to perpetuate has indeed shown its ineffectiveness in more than a year of crisis. As long as we make a Pandemic law, we could take stock of the crisis management and take it into account, but the government believes that it has managed so well that it does not even expect the outcome of this crisis. While the report of the Covid-19 Commission is still under discussion, we are moving forward to decide a law that will perpetuate this way of doing things. The procedure is almost the same and, as I said earlier, the measures and the strategy as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u46	As regards the role of trade unions and the requisition of staff, you have not referred to the Council of State, whose opinion seems to me to be contrary to this amendment. The Commission then voted on the recommendations last night with 11 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 vote against. This will, of course, still happen in plenary, but the work of the committee ended yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u47	Mrs Gilson, has this text before us today been drafted on the basis of the recommendations voted on yesterday or has it been done before? I think we agree that it was done before and that it does not take these recommendations into consideration. They were voted yesterday, when we have had the text for weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u48	This text is a text on administrative police measures in an epidemic emergency. The Commission's text deals with the health approach. In any case, Parliament is working in a comprehensive manner and it is certain that the Members in committee have also taken into account the work that has been done in the committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u49	Do we have an assessment of the measures that have been taken, a study, the recommendations of the Covid Commission that tell us whether it was right or not? Do we have that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u50	There will be an evaluation of the law, as I said in the speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u51	There will be... but the law is already here!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u52	We need a legal basis, Mr. Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u53	You can legalize what was illegal. That is your right as a parliamentarian. But what I am saying is that what is contained in this law is not based on any record of the management of this crisis. You can't deny it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u54	The Court of Appeal did not consider what is currently happening to be illegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u55	Some court decisions also stated the opposite. We must be able to understand things in their entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u56	Given its jurisdictional level, I believe that the opinion of the Court of Appeal can be taken into account. But maybe you don't agree, which is your right.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u57	I do not agree, because we attended the same hearings and heard the same constitutionalists. You probably remember their position, which you shared by the way, even though it has evolved for you today. Constitutionalists have flouted the way this was done and have also floundered this bill at its preliminary stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u58	The project presented here includes a lot of changes in response to criticism. It is a good text that will provide a legal basis, as recommended by the Court of Appeal. This, without calling into question what has been done before. The difference is that today, the crisis persists, it is long-lasting. It is therefore our responsibility to vote on a legal basis that will enable the government to take action and manage the crisis, while respecting the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u59	Mrs Gilson, I too am in favour of the existence of a legal basis, but which one? This one? You say that the recommendations and opinions of the experts have been taken into consideration. However, the main criticism of the experts concerned the transfer of power from Parliament to the executive on the restriction of democratic rights. Is this bill being done by Parliament or by royal or ministerial decree to restrict democratic freedoms and take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u60	The experts were not unanimous in this regard. It is a matter of respect for the separation of powers. As I said, we do not want Parliament to take the place of the executive. Everyone has a role to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u61	For my part, I say that it is here the executive that takes the place of Parliament, which has been the subject of criticism by the experts. In the current bill, you cannot deny that it is always the government that decides. Parliament reacts a posteriori, not upstream.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u62	It is the executive's responsibility to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u63	Even the measures to restrict democratic rights that are normally the responsibility of Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u64	It is supervised by legislative control and judicial control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u65	That is exactly what I am saying: Parliament will act later, not upstream. It does not lead the debate on measures. He then leads the debate about his agreement or disagreement with the government's action. You don't deny there's a transfer of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u66	There is no transfer of power!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u67	I see that before, you were in disagreement and now you agree with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u68	No, there is no transfer of power. Parliament is acting upstream because we are creating a framework here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u69	He's not acting upstream.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u70	There'll be a follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u71	Parliament today decides to give its power to legislate to the executive. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u72	No! That administrative police measures must be decided by Parliament is your opinion. For us, it is the management of the executive within a framework given by Parliament; it is Parliament that gives this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u73	Yes, and within this framework, certain powers within the powers of Parliament are transferred by this bill to the executive, including the actions to be taken in the event of a pandemic. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u74	There is no delegation to the government beyond what can be given in delegation in the exercise of executive authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u75	That's what we did with special powers. Authorities were delegated to the government to manage a pandemic within a certain period of time. Here, this law will perpetuate a policy of special powers in a legislative text and Parliament is asked to position itself. In the event of a pandemic, will Parliament automatically give special powers to the government? Or, as we did at the beginning, are we going to have a debate in Parliament about whether we are giving a delegation of special powers or whether we need to go through legislation to take action? In this bill, it is decided that in the event of a health crisis, Parliament automatically decides to confer special powers on the executive. That's what this law does.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u76	No! There will be confirmation or infirmation of the Royal Order triggering the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u77	Yeah, but then. Parliament is not in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u78	It will be able to discuss and have access to all documents. Every three months, he will also discuss
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u79	Fortunately, there will be a check every three months, Mrs Gilson!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u80	It is therefore not special powers but a control of Parliament over the executive that takes management measures that fall under its authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u81	This is what already exists with special powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u82	I can't convince you. I'll stop there!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u83	During the previous special powers, every three months, the Prime Minister came to explain herself so that Parliament could exercise its control. This is the normal procedure under the special powers. Here, special powers flow into the marble automatically in times of pandemic. This is a fact that cannot be denied. That is what the text provides for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u84	There was not the framework that exists today which provides for many provisions concerning – I will not repeat my entire speech – the role of experts, transparency, publication, the absence or control of conflicts of interest, the examination of proportionality. It is clear that we will not agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u85	Of course not, Mrs Gilson. As far as I'm concerned, I've never changed my mind. I therefore remain opposed to this bill, which automatically legitimizes special powers in the event of a pandemic crisis. In addition, you have not brought convincing enough arguments to change my mind. But I come back to my speech, Madam President. I was therefore saying that the method of combating the pandemic that this law wants to perpetuate has shown its ineffectiveness, after more than a year of crisis. One might think that as long as we make a law, conclusions must be drawn. However, these conclusions have not been drawn since this text is not based on any study, no concrete assessment of the effectiveness of the measures taken so far. Therefore, the same procedure of special powers is always maintained, with similar measures and strategies. However, let us admit, if we take stock of this crisis, we can say that the management of it has not been extraordinary. It was even very limited, not to say catastrophic. There was the saga of masks that were destroyed by the government. Health care has been underfunded fairly repeatedly. Moreover, during the last parliamentary term, they suffered from underfunding with cuts amounting to 900 million euros. As a result, health care has found itself in a lack of resources to cope with this crisis. As the virus developed and the experts sounded alarms, the government kept minimizing the situation of the crisis. We even heard in the government that the alarmists were "drama queens". We were even talking about flu. It took months for him to see a response to the epidemic. In this case, we are being sold the action of the government as more effective or faster than that of Parliament, civil society or citizens, but experience shows that it is neither effective nor rapid. It is the government that made the wrong decisions during the crisis and is responsible for the current situation. Even citizens were much faster, because when they saw that a difficult social situation was developing, they did not wait for the government to react. They have taken charge of their responsibilities and set up a system of solidarity and mutual assistance to help the weakest. The law also has an unfair side in the sense that it plans to combat the pandemic by involving the police. Law enforcement agencies are sent to punish citizens: fines, penalties, etc. It is known that, during the crisis, the measures, which are still those provided for by law, were of varying geometry according to the social class. The faucet of social life has always been closed (limitation of contacts, family life, right to demonstrate) while large companies were in full swing, while 40 per cent of the households of contamination were born in enterprises. It was remarkable that during this crisis, the largest outbreaks of contamination occurred in companies. I am not saying that they should be closed down, but, in any case, that measures should be taken to enforce them. While confinement, curfew, restrictions on freedoms – most of them respected by citizens – have been applied, studies have shown that 60% of the large controlled enterprises do not comply with the measures. There were no sanctions. It was very easy to put a fine of 250 euros to young people who eat their sandwiches on a bench. On the other hand, the government did not consider it useful to punish large companies that did not comply with the measures. This is an injustice at the social level. This law includes the infantilization of citizens and workers. However, it was the workers who took control of the situation to enforce the measures in the companies, not the government. At AB Inbev, it was the workers who did a week of strike while the government remained spectator. It was this strike that enforced the measures in the company. Why not involve workers and citizens in decision-making, as they have shown that they are more effective on the ground? We know that solidarity and true adherence are needed to fight the virus. This Act does not provide for any support measures. We're in the crackdown. Individuals are punished and freedoms are restricted without a global vision of fighting covid-19. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against the pandemic naturally requires drastic measures. Governments have a duty to protect the health of citizens. In the context of such a crisis, balancing health, well-being, work and democracy is not an obvious but a necessary task. To ensure balance, the first thing to do is to involve the population in decision-making, and not to infantilize it as has been done so far. Crises, whether economic, health or otherwise, are quite indicative of the limits of the system in which we live. Indeed, these crises also highlight the democratic crisis and the gap between the population and the political world. With every new crisis, this gap is widening. At the democratic level, the crisis serves to further restrict democratic expression by transferring more and more powers to the executive. At every crisis, we have this kind of attitude that limits democratic expression. At the social and economic level, decisions do not meet the needs of the field, because these decisions are not driven by the needs of citizens. They are because of the economic needs and the needs of large companies. This has been seen in terms of sanctions and compliance with the rules. This was seen at the expert committees, and was seen in the SEAM to decide what action should be taken. We have seen the composition of these committees: representatives of large companies, employers. There were no representatives of workers, no representatives of nurses, no representatives of youth, culture. Therefore, the decisions taken are not in the interests of society, the citizens. They are in the interest of a few. We can't deny it. And when we manage to draft a bill to sustain this kind of policy, it is said loud and clear in this Parliament that this political class that governs does not govern for everyone but for the benefit of a few, to the detriment of 99% of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u86	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the least we can say about the Pandemic Act is that the text has come a very long way, from the preliminary draft law to the final draft bill, which was also discussed by the Committee on the Interior at second reading. The honourable Members who spoke before me have already mentioned the various amendments submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. These opinions seem to have reached the limit. I also remember from the discussion in the previous part-session that we should go to a final debate on the text that has been presented literally and figuratively much discussed. Colleagues, sowing fear is not a good option. Parliament will continue to play a role when the law is ever to be applied. We all hope that that day will never come. The ratification of the Royal Decree, which announces or prolongs the epidemic situation, will have to take place here within 15 days. If we decide not to ratify that royal decision, then so is our decision, and then the royal decision lapses. We have already discussed the evolution of the text on several occasions. The text provides a specific legal framework. The government has also provided for a prior parliamentary and social debate for its working methods. It was rightly chosen to work with royal decisions rather than with ministerial decisions for the measures, unless they are extremely urgent decisions to be taken. At the time of entry into force of the pandemic law, the basic Civil Security Act of 2007 will no longer support epidemic emergencies. Transparency in decision-making has also been maximised. The same transparency applies to scientific advice and to the experts at the root of the royal decree announcing the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, a good pandemic law must link two areas. Firstly, it must respond to social and legal concerns about people's daily lives, the functioning of our businesses and the enjoyment or restriction of certain constitutional freedoms. Secondly, it must be able to define clearly what citizens' social obligations are in extreme times of crisis caused by an epidemic or a pandemic. After all, let us not forget that one's own behaviour can have a life-threatening effect on the rest of the population and on the functioning of our society. With the present pandemic law, the government is giving us a text that will make us stronger in dealing with such a crisis. To this end, the basic principles of the rule of law must be set as high as possible, with the necessary checks and balances. That thought-out balance is needed for a maneuverable crisis and enforcement policy. During one of the meetings, Mr Van Hecke and Mr Verherstraeten gave a presentation on the different ways of working. First there were the powers of attorney, then the civil security law, then the preliminary draft pandemic law and finally the bill. That was quite an exercise of thought, but it was interesting and showed a positive evolution with more transparency, legal certainty and democratic control. At the heart of the matter is that health protection is a constitutional obligation. This is stated in Article 23 of our Constitution. However, it will always have to be weighed against other constitutional freedoms. Other texts have been tabled in the assembly, but it is clear that they are not an alternative to the well-considered and well-developed draft of pandemic law, which is before us today, after months of parliamentary work. We shall therefore support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u87	I didn't expect us to discuss the draft pandemic bill before the pandemic is over. I fear that this is because of the virus rather than because of Parliament's speed. The opposition has long turned it into a ping-pong game, even though it denies it. I am glad that we can have the debate today. The disadvantage of being yet another speaker is that much has already been said and that a wide exchange of views has already taken place with the necessary useful points and points of discussion. I do not want to reopen the discussion, but I would like to make a few points. Firstly, we were undoubtedly all overwhelmed with thousands of e-mails about the pandemic à la'say no to the pandemic' and'stop it'. Like my fellow Members, I have been able to draw inspiration from this. It is important, however, in a debate which has been going on for so long and which has been accompanied by several versions of texts, to inform everyone of what it is about. Those e-mails, for example, said a few times that Parliament is still denied any real democratic role in managing the health crisis. The destruction of democracy by the pandemic law, as it is now drafted, is, of course, nonsense. It doesn't make any sense. The pandemic law should just offer additional warranty and provide locks. That was originally the intention of the draft law. This is also an important point for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. At the same time, it must also be possible to move quickly and take measures. This is sometimes forgotten in the debate today, which is the essence. The pandemic law provides for locks, so that there can be fast switching and at the same time sufficient control and involvement from our assembly. The scientific texts on which measures are based must be submitted to the Chamber in order to have the debate. There must be a monthly report. That is also a way of starting the debate here. There is an evaluation at the end of the pandemic, which will undoubtedly also be very useful. Of course, we also have our role in declaring the emergency and in prolonging the emergency. Mr Verherstraeten also pointed out that we have played our role over the past year, apart from the pandemic law. There were incredibly many questions asked. At least the group leaders received the figures. Not only the number of questions, the amount of legislative work, the number of initiatives from Parliament and the government, but also the number of hours we have debated in committee and in plenary, has been unseen, even though there have been crises in the past. That's normal, too. In any case, this draft pandemic law does not end, quite the contrary. After all, a number of additional guarantees are being introduced for, among other things, advice and evaluation to be requested, while this is now being done on the basis of the goodwill of the Minister. It can indeed make an opinion available to the committee or Parliament, but is not obliged to do so. In this respect, therefore, there is a great improvement for the democratic role of our Parliament. The e-mails also very often said that "an authorisation is given for crisis management for crises that may occur in the future." I hope that the pandemic law allows us to deal with crises. Hopefully, the Chamber of Representatives also believes that it is the government that needs to deal with crisis management and rapid intervention. That is a task for the government, it is not a task that we should want to take on here in Parliament. Speed is not the first word I would say when I describe our Parliament. That's okay, it's just a fix. It seems to me quite logical that such a crisis should initially be managed by the government. The long term is obviously work for us. Moreover, there are, of course, opportunities for authorisation for crisis management, which is inevitable. However, even without a pandemic law, this has happened in the past year and a half. The government has taken action on the basis of other crisis laws, which were not originally intended for this purpose. They were intended for a very short crisis, and we can no longer talk about it. Now we're talking about a very long period. That is why, according to our group, this pandemic law is needed, in particular to ensure that the legal basis, which was clearly sufficient, is strengthened and is specifically based on such a long-term health crisis. I have also heard a number of times in the debate today that we need to be more specific or more specific. Others say that one should keep it more vague. It is not possible in a pandemic law to lay down everything in detail for a future crisis. For this we can count on our assembly that will do what it has been doing for years, namely to carry out its control function. One last point that struck me in the e-mails and that came back today, is the question whether that pandemic law is necessary and whether there are any other slopes. A number of alternatives are suggested, such as giving priority to the protection of risk groups, the re-financing of hospitals and the re-evaluation of care staff. These are, of course, very important elements, but it is an en-en-story. All that has nothing to do with what we're doing today. The protection of groups at risk was also a priority, as the vaccination campaign clearly demonstrated. The refinancing is in full swing. I heard Mr Boukili say that the crisis has been dealt with in an inefficient way. He probably would have done something completely different. I thought it was remarkable that he said that. After all, we are now a year and a half further, and when we look at other countries, we cannot always see that much difference. Where there is a difference, a number of countries have created a yo-yo effect. For example, the Netherlands has released a number of measures more quickly, as is often suggested in those e-mails, but has in the meantime been intertwined again. So I don't think that's the best solution. The PTB may say that we have dealt with it inefficiently in our country, but we can see that there has been a fairly stable policy. I thought it was important to quote those points from the e-mails again, especially because it is an en-en-story. Secondly, after a month's debate, I would like to remind you of the somewhat strange attitude of the opposition. Mr. De Roover, you've brought a thick pile of papers. I was afraid it was the opinion papers on the pandemic law, but it seems to be all the advice. In any case, I have to admit that you were the first to place the issue high on the agenda in December last year. You have hammered this very hard, not always at the same point, but always at the pandemic law. You have expressed your concerns about this on a number of occasions. The story has changed a bit over time. Originally it was about the legal basis being too shaky, so a pandemic law was needed. For example, in December 2020, you denounced the fact that the measures could still be taken by ministerial decision as long as the law was not there. That is also the point you have made today. In your opinion, the debate needed to be speeded up. Unfortunately, that was eight months ago. In February, a new article was published referring to the Dutch Corona Act. It was particularly interesting to take a look at the Dutch approach. You said at that time that the Dutch Corona Act was valid for three months, to be extended if necessary. The measures which the government intends to take will be submitted to Parliament within a week. Urgent measures can be introduced immediately, but they require a parliamentary agreement to be given within seven days. These are neat principles that combine an adequate approach with legal guarantees. If you compare the Belgian pandemic law with the Dutch law, there is not much difference. The principles are the same, but their implementation is quite different. However, the Belgian pandemic law also provides for the principles you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u88	Mrs. Depraetere, I don't think so. We are allowed to vote once, namely on determining the situation. Unlike the Dutch approach, no parliamentary debate will be foreseen from that moment on, for example, for the introduction of a night clock. I repeat that we have provided in our proposal that when it comes to fundamental rights, we should always come to Parliament, except in urgent circumstances. Then it has to be within seven days. It is therefore possible to take a measure immediately, but Parliament still has to judge it within seven days. That's not provided for in what's ahead here. If the Royal Decree finds that there is an epidemic emergency and we approve it after ten days in that 15-day period, it is up to the government, for example, to introduce a night clock. In the Netherlands there is a debate on this in Parliament. This seems to me to be a democratic added value which we do not have when we have provided for in our proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u89	Thank you for your reply, Mr De Roover. If we put your text and the final text of the bill side by side, this is the big difference. For the rest, they are actually quite similar. The only difference is indeed whether or not to ratify it. However, if we look at the democratic value or what Parliament can do with the draft law, it is de facto the same thing. Parliament can also still ensure that a measure is destroyed or cannot be continued, which is also the case in the Netherlands. That is where the government can decide first and then it can be ratified, but we can also have this debate here. It is not that we would no longer be able to hold that debate with this bill. Our Rules of Procedure provide enough other means for that. Parliament can perfectly lift these measures by means of a legislative proposal, which is no problem at all. After all that has appeared over the past eight months, you say that this is a very sad day for parliamentary democracy. Allow me to find that much exaggerated when I see the difference between what you are saying and what the government is saying. After all, it is not the case that Parliament no longer has any role to play. If it is specifically about that 15 day, it is said that the government is now deciding for two weeks something that has not been ratified by Parliament. That would be a coup d'état which would put Parliament out of play for 15 days. However, this is not in line with the debate we had on the preliminary draft a few months ago. After all, there was a very short period of time. At that time, however, it was said that a two-day deadline for Parliament to ratify it was far too short, because it would not be possible to have a thorough debate at that time. So we would be reduced to a voting machine. At that time, I thought that was a very fair point. It is, of course, one of two things, because a deadline must be set.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u90	I'm glad you noticed. It was then in two and five days. The Council of State had no problem with that two-day period. One only had a problem with the question when it would be five days. That problem has been solved by not applying a period of more than two and five days. In this sense, therefore, the Council of State's objection was met. However, it has suddenly been turned into 15 days. As a famous Dutch philosopher said: "Every advantage has its disadvantage." That is also the case here, because we now have longer time to debate. That two-day period was definitely very tight. This means, however, that the government can start measures in that period of up to two weeks. If Parliament were to decide by a majority, after 10, 11 or 12 days, i.e. within the 15-day period, that the government was wrong to declare the epidemic emergency, then the epidemic would stop, but during that period all kinds of measures will have been taken which may have resulted in the punishment or punishment of citizens, and Parliament will then find that it does not agree with that. That is why it seems more logical to me that this period is long enough, but also that the law does not enter into force until after ratification. That's perfectly manageable. Now the emergency is already going in and we can discuss it afterwards, but it has existed for two weeks. I find that a very strange situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u91	Mr De Roover, it is 'Every disadvantage has its advantage'.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u92	Madam President, I would like to respond to what my colleague De Roover has said. Indeed, this choice was made. If I repeat your bill, which proposes another mechanism, it does not say anything else. The only difference is that one would go through a law, following a procedure to be defined in the framework of a regulation here in the House. But we would still have that law. One opinion from the Data Protection Authority (DPA) within five days, one opinion from the Council of State within five days. We should go to committee and so on. In my view, in practice, will this procedure, which is intended to be the ordinary procedure, not ultimately be sacrificed to the exceptional procedure that you bring in your own bill? She said that if it did not go well, however, a royal decree would have to be confirmed within seven days. If one goes through this procedure, one realizes, finally, in practice, that the law to be passed in committee, in the Council of State and so on, this ordinary legislation should never be applied because it becomes too binding. The secondary procedure, which is the royal decree, would be used systematically and must be confirmed within seven days. In that case, unless I misinterpreted, measures would also come into force, and would be active during the seven-day period within which Parliament would confirm. So you're criticizing the mechanics and I can hear it. This criticism is legitimate, but this mechanics is identical in thought, and in my opinion, in its own ways and in its effects, to that of your proposal. Very sincerely, when I read your proposal, I hear the same thing. I have a fundamental criticism: against the law, there is no potential recourse. We discussed it between us. With a royal decree, on the contrary, there are possibilities of recourse. In terms of judicial guarantees for citizens, this is important. But in addition to this, the mechanisms of the law as they may exist will lead directly to a postponement of the secondary procedure and therefore measures will enter into force for seven days. It may be less than fifteen days, but this will lead to the entry into force of measures, with potential consequences, for seven days. The same criticism that you are opposing us can be made of your bill, with, in my view, additional difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u93	Mr Aouasti, I assume that your question, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, was addressed to Mr Depraetere, but Mr De Roover is going to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u94	Madam President, I will reply on behalf of Mr Depraetere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u95	That seems a little far-fetched to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u96	We must be able to show some flexibility in politics. Mr Aouasti, I appreciate that you have read our texts. Not everyone has done that when I hear some comments. We have effectively taken care of it, and this is not only a explanatory but also a necessary one, so that, in urgent circumstances, a measure can be taken immediately. If we do not provide for this, if we say that we have to go through Parliament all the time, then we are organizing misery. That is also included in our text. Still, your comparison doesn't make any sense. We are talking about measures, and this legislation deals with the question of whether the government can take action. It is one time about whether the door is opened or not. When they are open, there is no further treatment. That is fundamentally different with us. With us, it is always about the specific measures of freedom. For the sake of clarity, Mr Depraetere, you are right, of course, that Parliament cannot guarantee day-to-day follow-up, otherwise we no longer need executive power. That, too, is a justified point and I fully agree with it. If these are restrictions on freedom of movement, which concern basic rights, night clock and a ban on movement are serious things, we say that they must always come before Parliament. That's not foreseen here. We are also saying that it is only in urgent circumstances that we should ask for Parliament's ratification afterwards. This is then an exception and in order to avoid that something must be done and then Parliament must first be called together. To be honest, I think this is indeed foreseen. The difference is that Parliament is allowed to open the door once, or not, and from then on it is up to the executive to take even fundamental freedom-loving measures. That is not the case with us, and Parliament must always put its stamp on such measures and therefore hold a debate, which is, of course, very important when it comes to such fundamental matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u97	Everyone agrees on the principles in themselves. That ratification must be possible or Parliament must give its consent to do so or not. At the same time, the government must be able to act quickly. You referred earlier to Dutch legislation. That's where it is. There is an opportunity to question Parliament first, but if the situation asks, if there is something urgent, if there is a need to intervene quickly, there will be an arrangement that already exists for a week and which may eventually, after that week, be stopped by the House of Representatives. Of course, this arrangement has existed for a week. Of course, there is little that can be done if we are to be able to intervene quickly. You say that there is little debate for those 15 days. The emergency can't just be invoked by the government. There are also a number of locks provided. Nor can this be done by the Minister. If Parliament does not agree with that decision after 15 days, that situation has existed for 15 days. The opposite can also be said. If Parliament only has two days to approve or reject it, then it cannot prove to be the case afterwards, because then Parliament has had too little time to give itself detailed information. We agree on the principle in itself. I think it is important for Parliament to have the time to hear experts if necessary and to do so thoroughly. In any case, it is a difficult debate. We have had a debate on the preliminary draft. We have heard many experts, asked for advice and debated here before. That's been helpful, too. Many experts have also indicated that the second version was an improvement on the first version. We have also been able to make a number of suggestions from Parliament for that text. That has certainly been useful. However, it remains an exercise in which you may be able to agree on the principles, but more difficult about the implementation. This can also be noted in today's debate. It's about that kind of thing that's a bit of a discussion. That's understandable, too. I fear, however, that there is no text which we all believe is the way in which Parliament should deal with a situation if it were to come to that. For the Vooruitgroep it is important that the dam is propped up, once the dike breaks. Then we need to look at how this can be prevented in the future. For us, that is the essence of the draft law. We need to make sure that the government can intervene quickly. We must also ensure that Parliament is able to draw the lessons and provide sufficient guarantees of control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u98	Hopefully we never need the pandemic law. If that is the case, however, it is our duty to prepare ourselves for it now and to ensure that the constitutional or legal basis can be guaranteed for a longer period and that that law contains sufficient locks, of course, without knowing whether it will ever be necessary and what the situation will look like. However, when fundamental rights come into conflict with each other, we must at least ensure that we can guarantee them as best we can. In this respect, we believe that the draft law is improving. It builds a number of locks. I've appointed them before. That is, of course, in addition to what already exists in Parliament. Of course, that doesn't mean that it doesn't go away. It's not a story or a story, either. It is possible to decide quickly in crisis time and ensure that Parliament is given a sufficient role in this matter. In any case, we are convinced of that. That is why my group believes that the present draft pandemic law strengthens both the legal basis and the role of Parliament. That is why we will support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u99	Madam President, Madam Minister, before I begin this intervention, I would like to have a little thought for all the relief services – since I know they depend on you – that are, for the time being, working because of the floods, in order to help the victims. I am thinking mainly of the province of Liège, where I come from: Aywaille, Spa, Pepinster. I would therefore like us to have a thought for firefighters, for civil protection, for paramedics, as well as for the police, who must block the roads and try to rescue the residents. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Vivaldi majority, I do not hide from you my total incomprehension since the beginning of this issue, my deepest disarray, my very great perplexity and, finally, my most intense anger at this pandemic bill. We have to make ourselves clear: we are fighting. The Vivaldi majority will vote tomorrow in favour of this repulsive law, despite all the offer of hands on our part and some opposition colleagues in order to improve the text, so that essential principles in a rule of law are respected. We are being beaten in the name of democracy, but this law is so bad. My anger is obviously not the result of our defeat. It is due to the fact that every citizen is covered by this law – in what he has most deprived as well as in his fundamental rights and freedoms. My anger is motivated by the fact that the public interest is trampled at the foot and that many of the stakeholders in this issue have been ignored, as have the alarm signals they issued. Similarly, I am angry that I am associated with a beheaded Parliament in taking action with the consequences affecting the daily lives of everyone and affecting the rights and freedoms of all. So far, you have pretended not to understand why we were opposed to your bill, noting that it was responding to our request. It is true that since the end of last year, we have called for the adoption of a pandemic law because we felt that the measures taken to manage the pandemic were legally fragile, but above all because we wanted them to be adopted by Parliament after a democratic debate in order to give them legitimacy to enable the population to accede to it. We could no longer accept the government taking action in interaction with experts without a public and transparent debate demonstrating that serious violations of citizens' rights and freedoms were necessary and proportionate to the public health objective pursued. It was therefore necessary for this law to give back to Parliament the powers that the Government had confiscated from it on the basis of the Civil Security Act in order to allow it to determine the necessary and proportionate violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens. Having said that, we were and remain aware that the management of a pandemic is not simple and that it often requires action in very short time frames that are not always compatible with the time required for a real legislative debate, which we have said and repeated. That is why we do not dispute the government's ability to take short-term measures as a matter of urgency, made necessary by the evolution of the crisis. The measures thus taken by the government under the benefit of the emergency can only be taken for a short period of time: the time for Parliament to adopt these or other measures, or even none according to what it considers most appropriate. That is the meaning of the amendment tabled both at first and second reading, which we have sent to the Council of State, which we are tabling again in plenary. It limits the duration of administrative police measures that can be taken by the government in times of epidemic emergencies to 15 days, renewable once. At the end of this period, the Government will under no circumstances be able to extend or amend the measures. He will have to pass the torch to Parliament which will decide what administrative police measures he will consider necessary in order to prevent or limit the consequences of the epidemic emergency for public health. If we have called for a pandemic law, it is in order to restore to popular representation the power of our assembly to balance the rights and freedoms of citizens, on the one hand, and the protection of their health, on the other. The Pandemic Law that you are proposing to us is absolutely not in that sense. Even more serious, it intends to perpetuate the system it contains for future pandemics whose effects we can only imagine. Basically, we take the same ones and start over. Indeed, your project aims to perpetuate and validate the way in which the current crisis has been managed by the government and its experts, by excluding popular representation from the choices made. In the next crisis, you want to be able, for a period to be fixed by the government, to take the following measures: limiting the entry or exit of Belgian territory, or even prohibiting access to the territory; limiting access to one or more categories of establishments or parts of establishments receiving from the public and meeting places, or even deciding on their closure; limiting the sale and/or use of certain goods and services, or even prohibiting them; limiting gatherings, meetings, movements or even prohibiting them; fixing conditions for the organisation of work; deciding which businesses, businesses and so-called services are essential to the population, thus setting aside those who are not on the list; determining what health protection measures are to be respected. Of course, Parliament will have the possibility, every three months, to put an end to the state of epidemic crisis, and thus to put an end to the special powers conferred on the government. But it will be a kind of everything or nothing, knowing that this will be more than nothing since the majority government will impose the views of the government. We therefore categorically refuse to perpetuate the government's confiscation of Parliament's powers in balancing citizens' rights and freedoms with health policy. It must return, as soon as possible, to Parliament, which must be able to debate it fully. That is why we are also opposed to a system that would simply require the ratification of government measures by Parliament. It is not for us to allow Parliament to say yes or no. The aim is to enable it to determine the most appropriate measures itself, and thus to be able to make proposals or propose amendments to government projects. We are really afraid that your project will lead to a retreat from democracy, to a blurring of fundamental rights and freedoms, to a devious shift towards a form of autocracy on the grounds that democracy is not effective enough to deal with serious threats. We know, Madam Minister, that this is not your intention. But what could the tools you intend to put in other hands than your own? You need to think about it and you will probably understand our concerns and our determined position with regard to your project. If it probably offers a little more democratic guarantees than the system you are applying today, your project will perpetuate it globally for an indefinite period of time. The adoption of your project risks closing the debate and preventing the search for a system that is more respectful of the rights and freedoms of our citizens, which takes place thanks to a strengthened role of Parliament in seeking a balance between efficiency, legality and legitimacy of measures. These three elements should not be opposed, but should seek a formula that would enable them to strengthen each other. Without legality and democratic debate, there can be no legitimacy. Without legitimacy, there can be no accession of the population. Without accession, there can be no effectiveness of the measures. These are the lessons that we must learn from these long months of dealing with the epidemic. We will do everything in our power to ensure that the lessons are learned and that we do not perpetuate, through the adoption of your project, a mode of management that has shown its limits in terms of adherence to measures that violate the rights and freedoms of citizens. By opposing your bill, we convey the concerns of many citizens, experts, associations and parliamentarians of the majority who expressed themselves in this direction when your bill was put into deliberation. They have not been heard since the project became a project. The ranks of the majority have tightened, not around defending the rights and freedoms of citizens, but around a government that intends to be able to restrict these rights and freedoms as it sees fit and not as Parliament sees fit. We would have liked the time for the reflection we had given you, through referrals to the Council of State, to be used to rethink the bill. Indeed, we assume that the end of defending the rights and freedoms of our citizens and the duty of Parliament to take care of them justify the means of using the procedure to slow down the work – which, moreover, has nothing more urgent – in order to force the majority to hear the opposition, large sections of civil society and citizens, as well as to take into account the suggestions made by the opposition in particular. It is the only tool we have to force you to reach out to us and reach out to all the democrats that your project is worried about, in order to create around the fundamental questions that your project raises a consensus that transcends the divides of majority and opposition. Of course, we regret to note that, despite all the tense hands, you are simply not changing an iota, even though the principles and values of our democracy are being put at risk by your project. Let me end with a quote that I think you will easily understand: "It is a failure to be stubborn only to be right; it is cowardice not to be so when it comes to fighting injustice and defending a truth." That is why we did not want to show cowardice and that we were stubborn to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u100	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to say that I am delighted that this debate is finally taking place. As you know, a number of amendments to the text, including certain Defi amendments, have been tabled and have been the subject of successive references to the Council of State. As stated on many occasions, if we support in principle the procedure for referring a text or its amendments to the Council of State when this is justified, we can only regret that some parties, as has already happened in the past, no longer hesitate to use this possibility to simply prevent a text from being discussed, analysed and voted on by this House. In any case, the parliamentary flibus, if it is part of the practice of an assembly, must have limits. Despite all the evil I think of this text - I will come to it - I am satisfied that the exercise has not been repeated indefinitely. In a way, the Pandemia law is more likely than the law on the decriminalization of the IVG, put in the eternal fridge by the Vivaldi after months of a unfortunately successful parliamentary fliber. In this connection, I should like to recall that our group has tabled a text aimed at limiting the baseless multiplication of requests for opinions to the legislative section of the Council of State, which in our view constitutes a serious precedent which could undermine the sustainability of the institutional balance. Before discussing the substance, another word about the famous exceptional procedure. All right, that's right, our Parliament has had a preliminary draft. It's quite unique. All right, we've had a number of hearings in committee. All right, civil society was invited to the party to look into the draft bill. This allowed the text to evolve. For example, this has allowed the processing of personal data to disappear from some versions of the bill. But let us not be naive, ladies and gentlemen! The main purpose of this extraordinary procedure was to clear customs, to exonerate in advance the government and the majority of the liberticide reproach concerning the substance of the text. For yes, this text was in part liberticide and, unfortunately, it is still liberticide. For our group, it is a bill that is still not acceptable as it stands. Here's why. Firstly, it is essential that Parliament fully resume its role of democratic control during a health crisis. The government bill is organizing, in this regard, and I have no other words, a genuine - indeed, temporary - submission of Parliament to the government in times of crisis. It is even an organized confiscation: we are, at best, in the presence of improved special powers. As soon as the state of health emergency has been established by a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, Parliament will lose any real control over the aftermath of crisis management, starting with restrictions on freedom. He will have only an advisory right, as was almost the case throughout the health crisis. The parliamentary oversight mission of the members of the House cannot and should not be limited to a few question-and-answer sessions with the ministers. As I have already had the opportunity to say in committee, I really find it difficult to understand how our Socialist, Liberal and Green colleagues can satisfy themselves with this text - despite, admittedly, the few developments that he has undergone. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing to be at the forefront of democratic renewal, to ask the citizens how to undertake a new reform of the state, to highlight the citizen panels, the drawing of lots, the right to petition, the requests for opinions from civil society - in short, to want to establish Belgium as a champion of the world of participatory democracy - if it is to accept a text that transforms Parliament into a simple chamber of endorsement of the taking of liberticide measures in the event of a crisis. That is what the citizens will remember! This point brings me to my second point, which concerns measures restricting freedom by the government. We do not want to deliver a blank to the latter in the management of the crisis. We have tabled an amendment to this effect, proposing that these measures be adopted for a maximum period of one month, which cannot be extended for the same period as a law. We also propose that they be submitted for advice to the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. It is not in the form of a one-off white-seing, but through a permanent examination, that Parliament should assess whether these provisions meet the requirements of legitimacy and proportionality and whether certain choices are acceptable to the public. That is why we took care to draft an alternative bill. Indeed, I do not claim that we should be content with the status quo - everyone probably agrees. Instead, there was a need for real monitoring of measures restricting freedom. If these are no longer essential or need to be adapted, then Parliament would have the full prerogatives to do so, because, ladies and gentlemen, one of the lessons of this crisis is that the balancing of scientific, health, economic and mental health arguments, if arduous, must be done here in Parliament and continuously, not in a CODECO, not in staff or in meetings of vaccination platforms. It is here, in the end, that things must be deliberated. That is what we wanted in our alternative bill. It is within this elected Parliament that it is up to us to find the right balance between the preservation of people at risk, mental health, the economic survival of cultural worlds, events and horeca. Unfortunately, this debate must still take place in the Federal Parliament tomorrow, because the virtue of the parliamentary debate is to be public, open-minded and to allow the decisions proposed, for example by the Conciliation Committee, not only to be approved or refused, but also to be amended and enriched, in full transparency. Finally, this is a fundamental condition for preserving and regaining the support of the population. Calling the representatives of the people to such a difficult decision-making process means trusting the people themselves who elect representatives not only for the colour of a particular idea, but for the supposed character of the women and men who carry their voice. Thirdly, I can only regret the lack of mention in the government's text of vulnerable people. However, this was a legitimate request from the associations, including Amnesty International. Some of the more vulnerable populations suffer from certain measures, and this must be taken into account. For each measure envisaged, it seems to us essential that an impact assessment be carried out taking into account gender, social class, ethnic origin, disability and any other potential factors of discrimination of the population. More generally, human rights should be central to such legal arrangements. The guarantee of the right to health and the right to life is not mentioned as a central element. Furthermore, it is important that the law be based on the principle of the indivisibility and interdependence of human rights. It must ensure that all rights can be guaranteed as far as possible, not only the right to health and the right to life, but also the right to non-discrimination, freedom of association and the right to demonstrate. In conclusion, Madam Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for Défi, there is no need today to adopt a Pandemic Act that will become a fetish offering the majority the opportunity to exonerate themselves from past restrictions. We need a genuine legislative tool which, over the course of each week and each month and of each consultation committee in the event of a crisis, allows us to endorse or not the measures restricting freedom as the crisis evolves. All we and civil society asked - and what the thousands of citizens who wrote to us asked for - was absolute respect for the principle of legality. This principle requires that Parliament restrict freedoms by law instead of delegating the government to do so. It's as simple as that, and it wasn't impossible. Why would it be more difficult to draft a law whenever a freedom should be restricted rather than a royal or ministerial order? This remains a real mystery to me and I have not received a fully convincing and consistent response, either in the government's project or in its responses. The government's text is therefore not the right one. It will not restore trust between government and Parliament, therefore, nor between government and citizens. These are improved special powers that will continue to leave the Parliament simple spectator of any future health crisis. We will therefore vote against this Pandemia law. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u101	Madam President, I will not repeat all our amendments. I will just say that we are in the amendments. 60 and 61 to provide a solution to the potential gap between the outbreak of the epidemic and the issuing of the Royal Decree declaring the emergency. I would like the new Amendment No. 78 which we have just received on paper. We would like to replace Article 4 (2) as follows: 'When the measures affect the policy areas within the competence of the Länder, they must have been the subject of a discussion in the Conciliation Committee.' Why do we want it explicitly? You know that we would like the agreement whenever a decision is taken on the powers of the Länder, but that would also be the subject of a letter addressed or to be addressed by Mrs Verlinden to the prime ministers of the regions. That is why there is this additional amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u102	Minister, I propose that you now respond to the various inquiries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the insights, enthusiasm and passion I have been able to hear from all the speakers today in this important debate. We have tried to make progress on the current situation. It's no secret that corona is still all over the place. Whether it's vaccination, modification or adjustment of holiday plans, travel plans and many other measures that we still know, there are variations in all letters of the Greek alphabet and corona there is still. We have to live with that. Moreover, there will also be a day after tomorrow, a day on which we can hopefully forget about corona, or at least this version of the virus. However, it is not excluded that there will be another pandemic in the future. With the present draft law, we have tried to prepare the future as thoroughly and constructively as possible and also in time. In this context, first of all, I would like to point out that, since the 1980s, the number of global epidemics has tripled. Unfortunately, this is something scientists are also telling us, because they expect this effect to be further amplified as a result of increasing urbanization, population growth and climate change. Pandemics are something we may still encounter in the future. We have tried to consider, with this Pandemic Law, the proper administrative management of a pandemic, and not to waste time preparing for the future. In this context, the Pandemia Act is fully in line with this government's ambition, which was formulated in the government agreement, where it was said that there was a need for a comprehensive approach to the management of epidemiological emergencies. It has not been ten months, and today the draft is being put to the vote. Much has already been said and written about it in committee, but also in this House. A lot of people have spoken out about this. The history has also been outlined here again today. At the end of December 2020, a newspaper also published that some mayors and governors had caught themselves talking about sheriffs, that our country evolved to a police state and that a pandemic law had begun to be written. We are now seven months after picking up the pen, after the initiative we have taken. Today the draft is before us for final discussion and vote. I would, of course, like to stress that many roads lead to Rome in the many social debates and challenges for which we are trying to find a solution. That is no different from making a pandemic law for a complex and very far-reaching matter. I would also like to stress once again that we have begun to write the pandemic law quite uninhibited. We didn't deliberately exclude certain options. Nor was it an objective in itself to be able to take a step as a government in taking a number of measures to prevent a prior debate from taking place in Parliament. That impression may sometimes be aroused. But it has certainly not been an intention at any time not to give Parliament the role it deserves. I think it is right that a number of Members here today, a majority and opposition, have reiterated that principle. However, we have struck a balance between, on the one hand, the speed of action required to manage a sanitary crisis, with very far-reaching social consequences, and, on the other hand, the provision of legal certainty, both in the procedure we are following and in the judicial review that we are making possible. Rapid action is not, by the way, inherent in a sanitary crisis. In many crisis situations, we must be able to act quickly and act decisively. I can only endorse what Mr Matz has said. Today, our crisis and emergency services in the provinces of Liège and Namur show once again what it is like to act quickly and decisively. In this case, there are floods and particularly heavy rainfall. With the legal certainty we are now offering, the sheriff's state will also be countered from the remarks of some governors. It is also a good thing that, in this crisis, we have been working on this legislative initiative to get to work in a unique parliamentary process. Some people take a bit of pity about that, say it's not so unique after all, that it sounds better than it would be. The perfection is not of this world either. However, it cannot be denied that we have been very open, from the outset, to involve Parliament in the legislative process. This has rarely been seen in parliamentary work. We've been really vulnerable with that. I've seen that in person, even today. We have made a number of choices that were thought out and discussed before the Council of State's opinion was sought and received for discussion in Parliament, and far beyond. Many other experts, civil society organisations and advisory bodies have spoken out. Mr De Roover, you said that we refused hearings. It's quite striking to imagine it that way. We've had a lot of hearings. We have also received many opinions, both orally and in writing, requested and unsolicited. We've all read and taken them. So there has certainly been no refusal to take advice and opinions from people. Those hearings took place on the basis of the first draft that has been submitted and we have taken those comments into account. It is not necessarily necessary to repeat the opinions given subsequently in a further course of this draft. The same applies to the comment on the opinions of the Council of State. A second point that I have often heard, which fits in with a tendentious framing, is that the scratch was that we worked with MBs in the initial proposal and that we had continued with the approach that we still have today. I understand that some people are selective about this, but a lot of courts, courts and administrative courts have expressed a positive view of this method of working. The choice for the MBs was made in the initial phase, prior to the opinion of the Council of State, in order not only to use the pandemic law as a legal basis, but also to use the civil security law as a complementary legal basis. This method is also used in other circumstances. Then, of course, there is a need for the same instrument. Those were the MBs based on the Civil Security Act. It is therefore not the case that we know and want to propose these MBs. It was indeed an informed choice to do so on the basis of the Civil Security Act. The Council of State then issued an opinion stating that an exclusivity must be chosen, either the civil security law or the pandemic law. Then we get a different spectrum. Then that legal basis of the Civil Security Act falls away for the administrative management of the pandemic. Then there was another choice. That's the reason for choosing KBs afterwards. I would like to emphasise that once again, because people may be looking for things that were not there. There were indeed organisational and legal reasons for suggesting this at the time. This is part of the transparency and vulnerability of the debate we have entered into. That's the past, too. Some of the statements covered the past and the MB's in detail, but we are not sitting here today. Of course, we have listened to a lot of people. We have taken into account opinions on the relationship between fundamental rights and the right to health. We've also made improvements. I don't think anyone can deny that either. We have taken on board the opinions of both the Council of State and all other civil society experts and advisory bodies in order to find the best possible balance. I would also like to add that I consider it a major asset that I and my staff have been able to prepare this project based on the situation on the ground and the lessons learned. This bill was drafted during the ongoing health crisis. That is why I believe that it is not possible to draft a law that is even closer to reality. The lessons learned from crisis management were truly taken into account in the drafting of this project. The emphasis has therefore been on speed, flexibility, legal certainty and the establishment of a transparent framework for taking action in crisis situations such as those we are experiencing today. As a lawyer and a democrat, I consider the separation of powers and the proportionality of measures to be important. I am also trying to establish unambiguous, clear and consistent rules. The draft currently being put to the vote has become a coherent package providing a framework for strengthening emergency planning and legal management of crisis situations. Allow me to comment on the comments that have been made today on this point, because although they may sound good and very intelligible, they are, in my view, violent to the truth. The pandemic law cannot be compared to a pure power of attorney law as we knew it last year. First of all, the system is well known, namely a legal basis which is implemented by royal decrees, or at a later stage even by ministerial decisions. We work with that system every day. Compared to a proxy law, the present law is much more specific and provides much more legal certainty. In this context, I can refer with confidence to the very first opinion of the Council of State, which we received on 7 April, which clearly states that the principles of formal and substantive legality are being complied with. More importantly, all the essential elements needed by the executive to manage the crisis are explicitly included in the pandemic law. There is a restrictive list of measures, which has been defined in a sufficiently precise manner. It also clearly indicates the circumstances in which these measures can be taken in an epidemiological emergency. That's what the Council of State says. I don't think that's what's happening here. The power of attorney law applied last year, which very briefly indicated that the King could take measures to manage the crisis, is in no way comparable to what is now the case, since this text contains a restrictive list of measures on which Parliament can give its opinion. Moreover, I have also noted today that there is little debate on the substance of the measures themselves. What is included in the law is not in itself questioned. The debate is taking place at a more abstract level. Some say that the text before us is a power of attorney, while we could perfectly imagine that opposition members who oppose it would also comment on the measures themselves. Everyone must be able to express their opinion in all smells and colours and as much as desirable. Nevertheless, we must try to express ourselves in a nuanced manner. Sometimes it's easy to use big words, but that doesn't always honor the truth. That too is respect for democracy. In the last eight weeks, we have asked for a new opinion from the Council of State three times. That is a parliamentary right, which I respect, of course. For the sake of completeness, however, I would like to add that it would be nice not to look the other way when the Council of State acknowledges the government's approach, but admits that the Council of State endorses the approach. For example, in the last question to the Council of State, nine amendments were submitted for an opinion. However, six of these nine amendments will not be re-examined by the Council of State either because it has already done so or because the texts are an implementation of an earlier opinion from the Council of State which has thus been translated into the draft. Nor has the Council of State accepted the other three amendments. The same can actually be said about the selective reading of judgments and judgments of civil courts and courts as well as administrative courts. You have set out with a great deal of fire the verdict of a correctional court in Kortrijk. However, we all know that, in the meantime, the Brussels appeal court has also re-elected itself. The ruling at first instance was then framed as an accident waiting to happen and a great embarrassment for the government. Afterwards, the appeal court drew a completely different map twice and endorsed our approach. That's when it kept quiet about that. Anyone can talk and shut up whenever they want, of course. However, it is certainly true that the long series of judgments which confirmed the validity of the measures received much less attention than some other judgments. For a number of reasons, it is good that the pandemic law came about in this way, firstly because there was room for a thorough debate in the short term. It is perhaps bon ton to say that a minister who has never before sat in Parliament has little respect for Parliament, is afraid of Parliament, which I have heard today too, and does not want to enter into the debate, but I think this is contradicted by the facts. We have done everything possible to be present in very extensive and thorough debates, to hear everyone and to be able to move forward. Moreover, I think it is a good law because it creates a legal framework for the management of pandemics. In the meantime, this framework has been tested on several occasions in the light of the views of the Council of State, which also applies to the ministerial decisions we have taken in the parliamentary process. We have looked at these insights with great attention and they have inspired and oriented us further. They were really important advice. Mr De Roover, you have just said that the reading of the opinion on the division of powers is particularly interesting. Perhaps the last word on this has not yet been said. Finally, it is good that we have a pandemic law, because we will be more administratively and administratively armed for the management of pandemics in the future. This will enable us to make clear agreements, take clear measures and provide legal certainty through the legal protection provided for. I would like to comment on a number of elements which have been mentioned in particular today. I do not pretend to respond to every detail, but I remain at my disposal to do so later, if necessary. However, I would like to make a number of important points. It was asked why the whole bill, as it was finalized, was not resubmitted to the Council of State. In the meantime, there are four opinions of the Council of State on this matter. The opinion of 3 June is interesting in this sense because on the one hand the amendments to the previous draft opinion were submitted to the committee on the one hand. On the other hand, it was an amendment tabled by the opposition. In this way, everything that has been discussed here today and is being put to the vote is also subject to the opinion of the Council of State, stating that no further opinion is being given on elements on which a decision has already been made, nor on elements intended to respond to the opinions previously delivered. This was emphasised by the Council of State in the text of 7 July. That may be a clarification of that point. A number of colleagues referred to the comments on the Social Criminal Code. With regard to the comments made by the Section of Legislation under the opinion of 3 June on the amendments made by the Committee, a number of questions were first raised and comments were made on the provisions amending the Social Penal Code. A first comment on that proposal to amend the Social Criminal Code concerns the question of whether the amendments will be implemented in a transitional manner. However, since the entry into force of the provisions of the pandemic law itself and therefore the amendments made by the pandemic law to the Social Criminal Code will be aligned with the entry into force of the implementing act laying down the measures, there will be no conflict of effect over time. It is therefore not necessary to provide for transitional arrangements. Moreover, on the basis of their general powers, social inspectors may, even after the entry into force of the pandemic law, adopt certain investigative acts relating to infringements of ministerial decisions issued before the entry into force of the pandemic law. A second important point with regard to the Social Criminal Code is the question of the Council of State about the added value of equalising employers' obligations, which will result from the decision containing the measures with the preventive measures. That is the famous or so-called Article 15, 3°, of the draft pandemic law. It is a clear and explicit choice to retain that provision in the draft law. It clarifies that the measures taken in application of Article 4 of the pandemic law, i.e. the actual sanitary measures, must also be respected in companies. However, by reintroducing them in the draft, it will also ensure that they can be maintained not only with regard to employers, employers' agents and employers' agents but also with regard to employees on the basis of the adapted provisions of the Social Criminal Code. That's exactly the point. Since enforcement in the Welfare Act is directed solely at employers and not at employees, it has been a conscious choice, in the light of the earlier opinions, to maintain Article 15, third paragraph, as such and to include that provision in the Social Criminal Code. Another important point, on which a lot of water has already flowed to the sea, is the relationship between the Civil Security Act and the pandemic Act. I remember that in a previous sitting in this half-round, the doom suddenly appeared as if no rapid action could be taken at the time when the pandemic law came into force, because the Council of State had indicated in its opinion of 7 April that there was an exclusivity in the event of an epidemic. I can say the following about this. I hope it will clarify this issue. This clarification was given earlier by the Council of State in its opinion of 23 June, the penultimate opinion. It makes it very clear that what was still being discussed today by the N-VA, in this case to prolong the civil security law, is not an answer to the problem of coherence. In the opinion of 23 June, on 13.2 and 13.3, the Council of State expressly states that the civil security law cannot continue to apply when the condition of an epidemic emergency as described in the pandemic law is de facto met. This means that when the law comes into force and there is an epidemic emergency which meets the criteria set out in Article 2 of the pandemic law, the pandemic law will be the piste and the civil security law will no longer be applicable. That's important. Otherwise, as the Council of State expressly states, the King does not at any time have an obligation to put aside the civil security law and apply the pandemic law. What some members of the opposition were very afraid of was that they would continue to work on the basis of the Civil Security Act, which, as we all know, was not originally written for a pandemic, and that there would not be any trigger to move to the pandemic law at some point. On the basis of the amendments examined, the Council of State now proposes that the King be given the freedom to postpone the effective application of the passed law and to continue to invoke the Civil Security Act, while the draft law is intended to provide for a set of rules of administrative police. If a situation arises that meets the conditions of the pandemic law, then the pandemic law will apply and that route must be chosen. If there is another crisis, that other legislative basis will be able to be used. That does not mean, even those doom images were explicitly outlined, that action cannot be speeded up. There can indeed be swift action. There is no reason to fear that action will not be taken quickly. Firstly, there is the announcement of the RB of the epidemic emergency and a first RB that will contain the measures. So one can act quickly. During an earlier discussion, you gave the example of an aircraft loaded with viruses coming here from the Far East. You said that it would not be possible to act quickly. It is also possible to take these two KBs of the promulgation and of the measures at the same time, on the understanding that Parliament will then decide whether or not there is an epidemic and that these measures may continue. All reports of the evaluation cell, of Celeval, led by the FPS Public Health can also be requested in good time. Other sources of information will, of course, also be used to ensure that a sound risk analysis is carried out in the short term and that the emergency situation is evaluated. That's not a problem. There are also other possibilities. There's the law on police duty. Mayors may also take measures to manage crisis situations on the basis of the municipal law. Clearly, this pandemic law does not touch that other legal basis. These elements can also be used as a legal basis to act. I believe that this problem is also removed and that a clear answer is given, which is not new, because that is also in the opinion of the Council of State of 23 June. The next point concerns the division of powers. Mrs Ingels' last amendment also refers to this. A resolution on the pandemic law was indeed adopted in the Flemish Parliament. On the basis of that resolution, there has been a communication. We confirm, of course, that we will consult if the powers of the Länder are also affected. We're doing it with great success now. Of course, that is not a pleasant matter for anyone, because nobody wants to take far-reaching measures, but we are trying to consult. What we did not expressly register is an obligation, as in your amendment, Mrs Ingels, that it should be submitted to the Consultation Committee. We must not end up in a situation of blocking and there is a call for consultation, but we must not respond to this call, which prevents the Consultative Committee from taking place and prevents it from taking action. We really must avoid that. However, I can confirm with great conviction that we will involve the Länder in discussing measures relating to their powers. With all the imperfectionism inherent in managing a crisis, that has happened well over the past few months. This has been very constructive, even though not everyone has always been cheerful. However, I see no reason not to perpetuate this in the future. And so there is no need at all for cooperation agreements and other formalities. It might be a good experiment to do that with a cooperation agreement. We know that this will take some time. It will not be so obvious to be able to act very decisively and very quickly. Then I come to the big issue. Mr Depraetere rightly said that Parliament's demand for ratification of the measures is one of the main reasons for keeping the opposition's fire alive. Of course, there are many systems. It is also not always obvious to compare parliamentary systems. There was a vote on the curfew in the Netherlands. There is, of course, another context there. I do not know whether I would translate it in such an unwieldy manner and say that we should do the same. Again, we started writing uninhibited to that pandemic law. We have tried to combine speed and legal certainty and to act responsibly. In its first opinion of 7 April, the Council of State states that it is an obligation, not only an option, of the government to take health measures. It is an obligation when there is a need for public health. We must then be able to act, and then we must be able to act quickly. If we have to ratify things at a time when we have to move forward very quickly and there is a multitude of decisions, this is not so obvious, first and foremost not the one for legal protection. Mr De Roover, that is not to say that we are adapting to the system of legal protection and division of powers between the Constitutional Court and the Council of State, but that is to say that we are trying to create a clear system that takes into account the powers and positions of each of the actors in our parliamentary democracy. That is also why we have tried as well as possible to increase parliamentary involvement and control. Mrs. Pas, you referred to an interview in the Morning. I can really confirm that today without shame on the cheeks. I should not repeat that the Council of State stated in its opinion of 7 April that it is okay that we can work in such a way that all the essential elements are included in the pandemic law and that there is therefore no need to ratify the measures to be taken by law. For the sake of weighing up all these interests, we have decided to be able to make this proposal, also from the point of view of practice. However, we have decided to use as many coat-sticks as possible to involve Parliament with a monthly check. Nor should we forget that there is still a great deal of opportunity for Parliament, not only in the announcement of the epidemic emergency to influence the deadlines, for example. That is a maximum of three months, but Parliament may only want one month. Moreover, the measures themselves may be questioned again and again. There too, we should not imagine it as black and white as some do. There are sufficient ways in which Parliament is involved. Now saying that this is a sad day for parliamentary democracy may be a good eye catcher, but not what we will achieve with this proposal. That's a choice we made. I already gave my opinion earlier on the comparison with that power of attorney law we knew earlier. Mr De Roover, you also said that there seemed to be different forms of urgency. There is a KB and if it cannot be sent to the Council of State, it is an KB without the advice of the Council of State. Then there's the MB in pressing circumstances. The truth is often gray and then there are still many shades of gray. It's all not as complex as you're trying to imagine. You know there are deadlines to go to the Council of State. We've all had a few more experiences together in the last few weeks. If it is not possible to take a KB, to work with a KB, to ask the King to sign a KB, but the time limit for the Council of State cannot be respected because there is a need to act quickly, there is a new urgency to take a KB without going to the Council of State in advance. I take the example of a flight that is about to land: if it is so urgently necessary that the King cannot be asked to act with a KB, then there is the ministerial decision. That is another urgency which will obviously also have to be motivated. That's a factual context. We all know that there are a lot of uncertainties about a pandemic, but it is also suggested by the Council of State that this possibility has been left in the draft. It is sometimes said that it is scandalous that MBs were still used in the first draft, but the Council of State does not prohibit this. He only says that this can only be done in very pressing circumstances, and that is exactly what we have foreseen. We are almost textually following the opinion of the Council of State. Mrs Gilson, as far as personal data is concerned, there is still a need for discussion on this subject. We are working today without explicit provisions on personal data. That, in my view, deserves an important discussion within the framework of the system to be applied during a pandemic. Mr Aouasti is not here right now, but he was talking about legal protection, among other things. I just want to say that the preparation of the discussion on how to achieve this legal protection has begun. Many options are on the table and need to be discussed. This is not obvious because we also have the laws of coordination with the Council of State which must follow a bicameral procedure, and the laws on the Constitutional Court. We must therefore see how we can proceed without delay. But today, there is no problem with judicial protection, which is necessary in view of the number of proceedings initiated against ministerial orders. I will not go into Article 2 concerning the definition in detail, because it has already been widely discussed. The seasonal flu is sometimes waved to say that this pandemic law will also apply to that flu. However, we must not make caricatures of it. We have included a number of cumulative conditions. One of these conditions is that there must be a great deal of pressure on health care and healthcare providers. The first the best disease can certainly not be classified as a pandemic under Article 2. So we do not need to create doom images that the government can take freedom-limiting measures for the least seasonal flu. This will not be passed by the government, nor by the Länder, and certainly not by the courts and courts which will at that time be asked to give their opinion. I look forward with great confidence to the further discussion and the vote in this House. It is certainly not a complex task, neither for the majority nor for the opposition, to take this path. This virus has blown us all off our socks: organizational, sanitary, budgetary and certainly legal. We tried to make the world better than we found it. We certainly cannot expect this bill to make everyone happy. Of course, we would rather not talk about this kind of thing, but we may be able to get on with it. In closing, I would like to express my gratitude to three stakeholder groups for the outcome of the project that we are presenting to you today. First of all, all parliamentary actors and experts. This also applies to the Council of State, which has often been asked for, and which has worked deeply to produce opinions that were not only interesting but very relevant to the legal issues we were asking for in the management of this crisis. Thank you very much! Thanks also to this Parliament for its intense, enthusiastic and passionate participation. He gave the opportunity, under this single procedure, to discuss a draft law and to hold hearings. I would also like to express my gratitude to the various services of Parliament for the work they have done. I know we can talk a lot, but in the end people have to write reports, correct them, give opinions. There is still work to be done when Parliament has completed its discussions. I want to thank them. Finally, a very big thank you to the team covid within our firm but also in all the other firms. I thank the Crisis Centre teams who have used their expertise 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It wasn't easy. Nor is it easy to draft ministerial orders, nor to try to conclude after the political debates on this piece of legislation. But they really did more than their best to achieve this result. I may be the face that sees itself today but a lot of people have worked with me. It is important to stress that. I will conclude, Madam President. We announced a few months ago that we would work on a pandemic law and the result is now there. We have used all our energy, our thinking and our creativity to make it something constructive and keep our heads cool, even at times of crisis and difficult discussions. We have tried to prepare the future in order to manage crises more efficiently in the future. I would like to thank you all very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u104	Madam President, I would like to reassure you: I will not go into this in too much detail, because let us be honest: the positions have been taken and I would be very surprised if I could make any further changes, although Mr Verherstraeten still has doubts. So I'm gonna make one last attempt after all. [[(Hilarity]] ) With regard to the future, I would like to make a number of points, Madam Minister. You say that you did not refuse hearings, but there were no hearings on the final text. That's what I said. In fact, I made it clear that we have had very interesting, high-quality hearings, but on many points that have appeared in the final version, I have not been able to question experts. The majority was not open to that. You said that there are quite a few opinions at the disposal of the Council of State, but that is thanks to us. Normally, they wouldn't have been there. You are a little more reluctant to give compliments than the opposition; so I will translate them myself and consider them as such. You say that many of the opinions have not noticed that your new draft is formally going wrong. I have just confirmed this, and that also applies to an opinion given by the Council of State on proxies laws. So, contrary to what has happened so far, you will now ask Parliament to agree to delegate the powers. At that time, you will be able to use the Council of State in this way, technically speaking. On my point that you have run quite a few risks with the technique used over the past few months, you are repeating that many higher-ranking courts have considered that there was no problem. That's right. But it wasn't even about one crazy judge in court who made a problem. It was about several judgments, which were even revised at second instance or on appeal. My point is simply that it is becoming very clear to the public and that it has created a potentially serious situation. I agree that this situation is probably not going to happen anymore. After all, Parliament will soon be able to give its assent, probably tomorrow. Whether everything is constitutionally okay is another pair of sleeves. There are certainly questions to ask. However, it is not the role of the Council of State to choose between a parliamentary approach or a proposed approach. That is not the role of the Council of State. It is not for this reason that we consulted the Council of State. I would also take the view that if the Council of State were to force us to follow one or the other direction in this respect, it would be out of the question. That is why I quoted the phrase of the Council of State that Parliament may decide to increase democratic support. He didn't say that you should do that or that you shouldn't. That choice is made with us. You make the choice not to. That's a choice. However, the Council of State states that a more democratic path can also be followed. You've decided not to. That is what we have to decide from the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. The Council of State has therefore not recommended that this approach should be followed, but that this is a way of resolving the legal problem posed by the ministerial decisions which have been used so far. Madam Minister, I would like to come back to a point about which Mr Van Hecke had set the bar high, in particular the problem of possible overlap, which was avoided. That is right, as I said earlier, because it is not so neat when an executive can do cherypicking and decide which of the laws it applies. The Council of State has therefore said that this must be avoided. You have avoided this, but I think that if the word does not exist, you will have done so. After all, from a time when two possible laws are being used, you have now created a period in which no law can be used. You just confirmed that, too. I have the question, to keep them sharp, specifically formulated for Mr Van Hecke. The day before the date on which the Royal Decree is introduced to identify an epidemic emergency, of course, the criteria have already been met. All the institutions are in the process of delivering opinions on that previous day, which will take some time. At least I assume that Parliament, which must judge within 14 days, will be able to give its opinion on the basis of sound reports. All these opinions will be delivered to Parliament as soon as you issue the royal decree. You are not issuing the royal decree on the basis of the state of the wind, but solid, with many opinions and reports. The preparation of these reports will begin at the moment when the criteria are de facto applicable, as you literally say. If those criteria are met, you do not say when the Royal Decree was issued - then the pandemic law will apply, but that is not correct, because the Council of State contradicts you on that point. According to the Council of State, the pandemic law does not apply until the Royal Decree establishes the epidemic emergency. I see you shaking your head in denial.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u105	No, there is a difference between the legal basis and the measures that can be taken. Recital 13.3 of the opinion of the Council of State states: "The entry into force of the new pandemic law implies that only if the conditions for an epidemic situation laid down in Article 2 of the draft law are not met will the laws of 1963 and 2007 still be applicable'. So if those conditions are met, the pandemic law will have to be used. This means that we must first send out an KB with the announcement of the epidemic and then an KB for the measures, but these two KBs can be sent together in the very short term. This does not have to stand in the way of rapid crisis management. It's about the terms. If these conditions are met, then we can no longer rely on those other laws. The opinion says: "That means that in that case the King must declare the epidemic emergency in order to fight against it. It would be contrary to the legislator's intention, on the one hand, to provide for a specific regime in this area and, on the other hand, to leave it to the King to make this regime applicable or not by declaring or not declaring the epidemic.' There is therefore a problem if we first use the Civil Security Act and then ultimately do not use the pandemic law, because then we could still work with the Civil Security Act three months later. The Council of State is very clear on this. People don't want that. If the conditions are met, the slope of the pandemic law must be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u106	I do not agree with the Council of State on this, but that is not the point I wanted to make, because the Council of State says: 'If the King refuses to announce the epidemic,' that is Article 3.1, 'or if the legislator refuses to ratify the proclamation, the Minister, responsible for Home Affairs, cannot invoke any of the laws to issue decisions containing the necessary measures'. So if the government says it won't issue the Royal Decree, you can't invoke the pandemic law. You can only rely on this from the moment the Royal Decree is issued, the Royal Decree referred to in Article 3, but de facto those other laws already end when the situation, as described in Article 2, is fulfilled. You do agree there's a gap between that, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u107	(...) bring into force the pandemic law with a KB within 30 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u108	No, you're not solving the problem. I'm sorry. Tomorrow, more than 75 people in this House will probably approve this. Then you have 31 days left. In the course of those 31 days or after 31 days it starts with a KB. At that time, these two laws can no longer be used. Within 31 days, i.e. sometime in the summer, they will no longer be able to be used for epidemic emergencies, while there is no KB of Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u109	All of that can happen together. There's no reason why there should be a decal.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u110	Madam Secretary, the epidemic of Article 2 is not an explosion you're hearing. It is a situation which arises at a certain time and from that point on you should take action, but on what legal basis? Can you still use the civil laws on the day before the announcement of the KB, which identifies the epidemic, and then can you issue the pandemic KBs already?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u111	There is a difference between the current situation and the situation for a future pandemic. In this pandemic there are the MBs that are valid. Therefore, there is a third Royal Decree concerning the entry into force of the pandemic law, which can enter into force 30 days after its publication. In addition, there are the other two KBs. The three can perfectly come together. That is no problem to take the measures. In the case of a future pandemic, it will be necessary to assess whether the conditions for an epidemic have been met. Then one can take a KB to announce the pandemic and a KB to take action. The civil security laws will then cease to apply, as no measures are yet applicable on the basis of those laws. That's a new situation. That is why we have now provided for a transitional situation to move from the current situation to the pandemic law. It's three KBs we can take together. A plan has been drawn up. There's no problem if we still need that for this pandemic. A second situation will be when, for example, we have a pandemic in 2027 and the conditions of the epidemic are met. The King can then announce the pandemic and Parliament will subsequently confirm it or not, and allow for measures. If the King did not decide to announce them, one cannot use the pandemic law to take action. These situations are therefore perfectly well thought out and designed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u112	I'll make one last attempt. In 2027, the day before the government calls out the epidemiological emergency, can it still use the Civil Security Act? Or can she issue all the KBs within the pandemic law? The day before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u113	It will be able to use the Civil Security Act if the condition of Article 2 is not met, i.e. if one is not in an epidemic emergency. If one is in an epidemic emergency...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u114	Yeah, but the day before that, is Article 2 fulfilled?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u115	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u116	That's the point. We don't know that. That's a moment when we don't know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u117	That's true today. If we see a flight coming from India and there is a delta variant, the question arises as to whether there is a risk and then we will take action. We ask for advice and we take action. That's exactly the same today. That's what people see coming. If that is the case a day later, we will ask for advice and we can take these KBs very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u118	But you can do that today if there is an urgent situation, based on the Civil Security Act. You won't be able to do that again if tomorrow's pandemic bill is passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u119	That's right, but then there's the two KBs. That's not that different in practice. You don't have to create a doomsday like we can't act. We'll be able to perform perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u120	In all honesty, I don't think so. We have tabled an amendment. You can either reject it or accept it. If you reject it, it will certainly not be our responsibility. I believe that you will be able to use neither one law nor the other the day before the announcement of the Royal Decree declaring the epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u121	That goes against the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u122	No, that's literally what the Council of State says. But we're not gonna turn it into a "wells-nothing" game. We offer you a solution. Please use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u123	It's not a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u124	I think there is another technical problem, but then it is no longer our responsibility, but that of this majority. We still have 24 hours to consider this in depth. Moreover, should you accept that amendment from us, we will still be voting against it as a whole. That goes without saying. Because then we will have solved an important technical defect, but of course we have not solved the problem. We are just good citizens who want to improve bad legislation in technicalities, but of course we continue to raise the democratic problem. I'd still like to try that last point of my life. In my opinion, you have not been able to answer it convincingly. In any case, and that is why we will be voting against, unless you would approve a number of other amendments from us, because we are also happy to offer that possibility. This is about intervention in basic rights, without Parliament's agreement. That's a summary of the story. The Council of State has said that it does not take a position on this. It is not up to the Council of State either, but to the legislator, as is literally said. The legislator can opt for more or less democratic support. I would like you to opt for more democratic support. However, you opt for less democratic support, that is our problem. That is essentially what we are talking about here. If, between now and tomorrow's vote, the majority remain stubborn, I will be proud to say that in Parliament's reports my name can be found in the votes against.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u125	Madam Minister, I am sure you are right to say that you are looking forward to tomorrow's vote with confidence. I don't like to believe you in that, but I certainly believe you there. There is a Belgian participation in which the government can always count on the majority of MEPs. Nevertheless, I have a similar element of reply, because that is the essence of the story today. You started your answer by saying that perfection is not of this world. I leave it in the middle whether it was about the trajectory of this bill or about the draft law itself. I can tell you that my group has already adopted a great many draft laws and legislative proposals which were far from perfect. However, there were always good elements in these draft laws and legislative proposals, which more or less compensated for the less good elements. You accuse the opposition in your reply that we would not be sufficiently nuanced. I said just now, and I'm going to repeat it again, that a pandemic law is necessary as far as we are concerned. I would also like to reiterate that there are good things in your pandemic law, which are an effective improvement on the current situation, a situation which is legally uncertain to date. So there are undoubtedly positive elements, which no one denies either. We must, however, weigh up the good and the bad elements. Cicero said in ancient times that arguments should not be counted but weighed. I have fundamental criticisms of the present draft law. Firstly, the definition is very broad. Many speakers in the hearings have also referred to this. Secondly, the distribution of powers is a step in the right direction. Thirdly, there is no guarantee that there will be a parliamentary debate on far-reaching measures, let alone that Parliament will decide on them, which is a democratic problem. These criticisms do not outweigh the benefits of this pandemic law. Parliament is the highest body in our democracy, and it must not be affected, not even during a health crisis. You have reiterated that the Council of State does not require far-reaching measures to be taken by Parliament, so that is correct. However, I have just quoted fully the opinion of the Council of State, and because it is so important, I would like to reiterate that: 'Of course, there is nothing to prevent the legislator from providing for such ratification, given the far-reaching nature of the measures, in order to increase the democratic acceptance of the measures'. The Council of State says that nothing prevents the legislator from doing so, but I do not understand why you do not make that choice. I do not understand why you do not choose to increase the democratic content. I have not heard any arguments for this in your explanation either. That point of criticism does not outweigh all the advantages, because then the perfection is very far away. In the absence of that democratic level, with the dangers hidden in this pandemic law, the remedy is worse than the ailment. That is why our group will vote this law tomorrow with a great deal of conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u126	Madam President, I did not intend to intervene again, but two points have drawn my attention and on which I would like to clarify and obtain others as well. First of all, I was quite surprised to hear from you, minister, that the opposition criticized the bill as such without any substantive position, let alone measures. I have the impression that we did not attend the same meetings. I invite you to read the reports again. Personally, I have expressed myself in relation to the measures, on the fact that they are not egalitarian, on the fact that their effectiveness is not demonstrated. There was a debate about this. I had even introduced a bill to abolish curfews. I also positioned myself on the question of requisitions. I have given a political position on a point of substance. If it is not of substance, I do not know what can be considered as such. Then I saw that you are very attached to the opinions of the Council of State and experts. You use the advice of the Council of State as a shield to defend yourself against the various attacks of the opposition. I would just like to talk to you about the opinion of the Council of State of 3 June on the amendments adopted in committee. Paragraph 1 of the opinion of the Council of State explains that this opinion concerns the amendments adopted in committee. Therefore, this opinion did not address the changes made by the government between the draft bill and the bill. That is why I had repeatedly requested that they be referred to the Council of State for further clarification on the added provision concerning staff requisitions. I was immediately accused of being fliberous, obstructing parliamentary work, etc. when I was sincere. I just wanted to know what the Council of State thinks about the question of requisitions. You tell us that all the recommendations of the Council of State, all the opinions of the experts, etc. have been taken into account. Listening to you, given the outcry that took place some time ago when I asked for referral to the Council of State, maybe I missed something. No doubt I wasn't very attentive and, with a lot of humility, I think maybe I'm wrong. It is for this reason that I am going to ask you a very clear question to which I hope to have an answer that will confirm or not the legitimacy of my questioning. What do the opinions of the Council of State, the experts and the hearings we have had on the demands of the staff say?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u127	The answer has already been given earlier. The requisition clause has entered into this bill because the Civil Protection Act 2007 cannot be used in the event of a pandemic. This is the conclusion of the opinion of the Council of State of 7 April. Since this article already existed and had already been the subject of an opinion of the Council of State at the time of the adoption of the Civil Protection Act, we have included it in this Act. This is a consequence of the opinion delivered by the Council of State on 7 April. We must therefore no longer send him this clause for his opinion. As repeatedly pointed out by the Council of State, it does not express itself on the elements which are the result of an earlier opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u128	I understand your reasoning, and this answer has already been given to me by Mr. Van Hecke in committee. This answer is not convincing for two reasons. First, when the Council of State delivered its opinion, it considered that anything that went beyond its recommendations should be resubmitted to the Council of State. However, his opinion on requisitions simply states that the 2007 Act no longer applies. He does not say that there must be requisitions in the Pandemia law. The Council of State doesn't tell you. He's just telling you that you can't use the 2007 law. You go beyond the recommendation of the Council of State. That's a first point. Secondly, if you take this provision and transpose it to the Pandemia Act, minister, I do not have to tell you, and I do not think that is the case, the 2007 Act and the Pandemia Act have nothing to do with each other! The Civil Protection Act 2007 is a law that applies to ad hoc disasters, i.e. its provisions are made for a few days. This is also the criticism that has been made of all the measures put in place on this basis. In this case, it is a Pandemic law and not a law that would be applicable for a few days. A Pandemic Law covers a minimum of three months. We see this in the case of this coronavirus crisis: it has been going on for a year! This means that you are making a provision about which the Council of State has positioned itself in relation to a specific situation and you are integrating it into a law whose temporality is wider and whose context is different. The opinion of the Council of State is necessary for two reasons. First, because he didn't say it should be added, but said you can't use the 2007 law. But you interpret it as a point that goes beyond the recommendations of the Council of State. The Council of State tells you that when you go beyond its recommendations, you must stand before it. Second, the 2007 Act is a law created for a context different from that of the Pandemia Act. I would therefore like to know what the Council of State thinks of requisitions within the framework of a law that can be applied for months and not on an ad hoc basis. On this, I still don't get an answer! What is the opinion of the Council of State on requisitions under the Pandemia Act, which is different from the 2007 Act? Given the answer you gave me, I conclude that you do not have an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u129	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you once again for taking the time to try to answer a number of questions, some of which are recurring. They are not only recurrent over time, but also in all opposition political groups. In your reply, you have spoken on several occasions about the Council of State. As we have said, we have preferred "to obstruct institutional work" in full legality, in support of the House's Rules of Procedure and coordinated laws on the Council of State, rather than taking the risk of obstructing democracy and the rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens, by the Prince alone, that is, by the power of the government alone. We assumed it. We have tried to ensure that this law is not passed, because it obviously does not address a number of concerns of our fellow citizens. As I had the opportunity to say in the last speech on the subject, we too, the opposition, will be asked to take account. For us to be convinced, we had to convince ourselves. We had to get involved. We have proposed it on many occasions, with built-up amendments, with negotiating capacities. It wasn't to be taken or left. We had entered into the discussion with you. When I say you, I'm talking about the majority. It is true that this Pandemic Act and this debate that has been going on for weeks really leave us hungry, especially with regard to statements made by the Prime Minister at the time of the government's inauguration. He said that we had to try to put aside the majority-opposition relations, that we had to use our hand outstretched, that the Prime Minister had reached out to the opposition and said that we had to work hand in hand. If there was a file on which we had to work hand in hand, it was this one. Indeed, we share the same objectives, namely, on the one hand, to combat the virus effectively, and on the other hand, to protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens, especially over such long periods. As we share the same objective, we have not chosen the same means to achieve it. We have proposed other, much more democratic means in the sense that Parliament is involved in measures of deprivation of liberty. You did not want to hear the constructive proposals. We regret it bitterly. We will vote against this law because we believe that it does not correspond to expectations and that it does not correspond to an effectiveness of the measures you are going to take because you will not receive the support of the citizens in this way, without debate, without being able to involve civil society, etc. through hearings. We will vote against it with conviction, not because we are stupidly in the opposition. No way! We will vote against it because we are fundamentally opposed to the principles it intends to establish and sustain for an indefinite period of time and for possible future pandemics for which the law is absolutely not calibrated since we do not know the ins and outs of these future pandemics. For all these reasons, we will vote against the law and regret that the Prime Minister's message, calling for objective work together on such matters, has not been heard by the majority or by the government in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u130	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u131	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1951/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1951/9) The bill has 16 articles. The draft law has 16 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u132	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 52 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) • 79 – Vanessa Matz (1951/16) • 66 • Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 53 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) • 67 Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) • 54 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) • 68 p.a. Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) Art. 4 • 46 François De Smet (1951/16) • 55 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) • 69 p.a. Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) • 78 "Peter De Roover cs" (1951/16) • 70 p.a. Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) • 80 – Vanessa Matz (1951/16) • 49 François De Smet (1951/16) • 56 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) • 48 "François De Smet" (1951/16) • 62 – Vanessa Matz (1951/16) • 72 p.a. Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) • 47 François De Smet (1951/16) • 57 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) • 81 – Vanessa Matz (1951/16) • 71 " Peter De Roover cs" (1951/16) Annex V.Part • 73 " Peter De Roover cs" (1951/16) • 63................................................................................................................................................................................................ • 64 "Nabil Boukili" (1951/16) • 51 "Nabil Boukili" (1951/16) • 65 years old Nabil Boukili (1951/16) Annex V.Part • 82 Vanessa Matz (1951/16) Art. 9 • 58 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) Art. 10 • 59 – Barbara Pas (1951/16) Art. 11 • 60 p.a. Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) Art. 12 • 61 " Peter De Roover cs" (1951/16) Art. 15/1(n) • 76 • Peter De Roover cs (1951/16) Art. 16 • 77 " Peter De Roover cs" (1951/16)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-voorlopig-55-plenair-ip118x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. Colleagues, for technical reasons, a suspension of a few minutes is required. I suggest you meet us at 4:30. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, July 14, 2021 at 4.30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 14 July 2021 at 4.30 p.m.
