ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u1	Minister, I would like once again to welcome your willingness to support this MIRIAM project. Recently, I had the opportunity to meet social workers from the CPAS of the City of Liège who experienced the MIRIAM 2.0 project. In Liège, the project integrated isolated groups of women with a RIS and a dependent family. They received individual and collective support for a year to help them get out of poverty. The workers I was able to meet told me about the difficulties experienced in this experience. I would like to share with you some elements to perhaps improve future editions. First of all, I was told that the duration of the project was too short. On the one hand, the selection time of the candidates was insufficient to be able to conduct all the necessary individual interviews. On the other hand, the duration of the project itself should have been extended to two years, because mothers often have financial, domestic or other problems that make it difficult to apply the MIRIAM tool immediately. Second, the inability to integrate new participants throughout the project constituted an obstacle to maintaining the initial momentum, due to the departure of a few participants. In addition, mobility difficulties have been a significant obstacle to the participation of many mothers, as has the lack of care for children. Finally, the workers felt that their training had not been sufficient. In order to be able to ensure the proper implementation of the tool and the monitoring of mothers, additional coaching tools would have been needed. Minister, have any other CPAS ever told you of this kind of difficulty? Will an evaluation of the MIRIAM project be carried out in the near future? Have any initiatives been undertaken to overcome the difficulties mentioned? Can the $4.5 million budget be used to provide better care for the children of the participants?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u2	Madam President, dear colleague, the evaluation of the MIRIAM 2.0 project carried out by CIRTES (UCLouvain) had already enabled the Federal Public Programming Service (FPS) Social Integration and Vrouwenraad to identify areas for improvement for this third edition, including the possibility of integrating new participants in the course of the project. The evaluation of this third edition will be completed on 15 December. The PPS is in regular contact with participating CPAS. Last November 30th, the closing event took place; it took place online in view of the circumstances related to the covid. On that occasion, I was able to discuss with the CPAS and the participants. In terms of duration, some CPAS have indicated to us their wish to extend or reduce, as appropriate, the duration of the accompaniment. Some mothers cannot get involved for a whole year and wish to be supported for a period of six months. Other situations would require longer accompaniment. We are thinking about greater flexibility in the future project and possible co-financing in the event of an extension. The training of case managers is currently carried out by the Vrouwenraad. We are working to strengthen this training. In addition to the case managers, MIRIAM's success also depends on the collaboration of the CPAS and all their services. That's why we'll let CPAS choose to engage in a MIRIAM project. There is no question of an obligation for all CPAS. With regard to the mobility and care of children, the MIRIAM subside can fully cover these expenses. The subsidy from the CPAS can cover this type of costs. We therefore invite them to make the necessary adjustments to facilitate such participation. In addition, we would like to take children more into account in the project, particularly in terms of support and evaluation, thus creating links with the Child Guaranteee, whose PPS is the national coordinator. I will have the opportunity to give you more information in the coming weeks as we plan to launch the future MIRIAM project with a budget of 4.5 million in the first half of 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u3	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I will relay it to the people who had questioned me about it. I am pleased with the ways in which you have been able to integrate the participants in the project and with positive information on the integration of children and mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u4	This is a follow-up question to a question I asked on 20 October.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u5	Mr van der Donkt, a distinction must be made between the pensions of civil servants and employees. The grant or level of foreign and supranational pensions does not in principle affect the amount of pension granted to an official. The application of the absolute ceiling rule is limited to Belgian pensions. Article 40 of the Law of 5 August 1987 does not mention pensions granted by the foreign system or pension system of a legal person of international public law, such as NATO and the UN. The reduction of such a pension does not affect the pension as an official. In principle, the employee scheme takes into account the pension amount of the similar allowance of a supranational institution for the application of the unit of career. In practice, supranational institutions do not communicate the pension amounts of their employees. The union of careers shall be arranged on the basis of a lump sum and the known career break. As a result, a reduction in an international pension will not affect the pension calculation here either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply and I will read it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u7	Question No 55023012C by Mrs Rohonyi is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u8	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, the Flemish Minister for Education, Ben Weyts, asked for a permanent exception for teaching staff on 20 September. I put this question to the government. For the care staff, the combination of the pension with an income from work is allowed until 30 June 2022. This measure was adopted in committee last week. This measure can also be extended to other sectors. I've asked my administration to prepare a royal decision for education. I will present this text to the government in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u9	Madam President, I look forward to the royal decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u10	Madam President, that will be after Christmas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u11	I requested the opinion of the Commission on Supplementary Pensions and the Commission on Supplementary Pensions for Self-employed Persons on this issue by 31 January 2022. I await the advice of these committees. As you know, the social partners in their agreement framework have asked that the taxation of the second pillar should not be affected. As I have said on several occasions, I will respect the agreements of the social partners. The same applies to the taxation of advances.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u12	I'll put February 15th on my agenda. Then you'll have the advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u13	I'll get that in by the end of January, so you can put 15 February on your agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u14	Will you come to me spontaneously with that advice? Or should I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u15	Maybe you'll get an e-mail from my cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u16	You promised me that last time, but I can understand why you're more busy than I am. I will ask my collaborator to put this on the agenda in mid-February.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u17	In its book 2020 on social security, the Court of Auditors examined the process of payment of pensions from the point of view of the control environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u18	Mr Van der Donkt, my administration attaches great importance to monitoring and adjusting the processes in order to provide a good service. The Federal Pension Service immediately started working on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors in 2020. As regards the control of the payment process, structured process governance was established. This meant that the processes and roles were clearly defined, that a risk analysis was introduced and that a risk matrix was drawn up on the basis of them. Following this, an action plan was drawn up which is monitored and updated periodically. In addition, the Management Agreement 2022-2024 will include a KPI on correct payments. Several actions were also undertaken in the field of ex post control. For example, a new ex post check was introduced as part of the limitation of civil servants' pensions to the absolute ceiling. Other projects are also in the scaffolding. The fact that the pension service does not carry out ex-post checks is therefore incorrect. As regards the accounting audits, the FPD focuses its efforts on the comparison between the payment data and the data as shown in the accounts. As the payments are generated from the rights database, to which quality control is applied, the FPD considers that an additional check is not relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u19	Thank you for your answer. You are listening to the Court of Auditors and that is always a good thing. You don't always do that completely, but well. I'll be careful what you do with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u20	Mr Van der Donkt, before the Act of 6 January 2014, the Communities and Regions had to have any new form of leave approved by the federal government first. As a result, the systems for federal officials and those of the Länder were very similar in practice. In the sixth state reform, that system was replaced by an ex post approval. New leave schemes now count for pension if they are added to the list in the Annex to the Act of 6 January 2014. By means of this mechanism, the decision of the Länder without the intervention of the federal government leads to additional pension costs for the State Treasury. I have had a lot of questions about this from several Länder. Instead of dealing with these questions on a case-by-case basis, I am seeking a global solution based on clear and general criteria. This solution must take account of the autonomy of the Länder to choose their staff regulations on the one hand and the federal interests on the other. My services are still working on a proposal that I intend to submit to the government shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u21	Madam Secretary, it is good that you take this dossier to heart. That is in the interests of all concerned. I look forward to your proposal. Is that gonna happen by the end of January?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u22	Mr. Van der Donkt, I think so. I would like to make a general proposal for all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u23	Madam Secretary, that seems obvious to me. I will ask my collaborator to remind you of this file in mid-February. That, of course, puts a little pressure on your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u24	Questions Nos 55023071C by Kattrin Jadin and 55023126C by Kathleen Depoorter are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, at a time when energy prices are rising sharply, I have a question about the Social Heating Fund. Persons in a financially difficult situation may receive an allowance to pay their costs for house heating oil, petroleum or bulk propane gas. However, it has been shown for some time now that there are also people who should not do so. We get signals from OCMWs that people who own a lot of savings or securities have a lot of real estate or live in a villa also use that fund. An evaluation of the 2017 PPS Social Integration also shows that the money does not always end up with the most deprived, with the people who really need it. That is also because the allocation is made to three different categories. The first category is people with an increased allowance for sickness and invalidity insurance with a gross taxable income not exceeding 18,000 euros, plus 3,300 euros per dependant. They do not look at real estate. So one can own several houses. That's not gonna be charged. A recommendation from this report was to make a thorough assessment of people's income, including savings and real estate. I thought that was a good proposal. Another proposal is to equalise the categories of right holders for the social tariff of gas and electricity and the Social Heating Fund. The coalition agreement also states that this must be coordinated and coordinated. Your policy paper also states that you want to further optimise the Social Fuel Oil Fund and the Gas and Electricity Fund. I think this is absolutely necessary, especially when people see that the money goes to people who don't really need it. Madam Secretary, will you reform this? How will you do this? Can we focus on people who really need it? Will you further equalise the beneficiaries of the social tariff for gas and electricity and the Social Heating Fund so that no different definitions are used? Are you thinking of other reforms for the Social Heating Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u26	Madam President, Ms Lanjri, on the basis of the recommendations of the 2017 report, but also of other institutions, such as the CREG, the Federation of Social Services, the UVCW and so on, I asked my administration to provide an overview of all the conditions and improvements needed to make the energy funds fairer and more efficient. My colleague Van der Straeten has asked the same question to her administration. Together, we have provided an indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund and a refinancing of EUR 16 million for 2022. Under the impetus of Minister Dermagne, this government also extended the social tariff to nearly 1 million people. I cannot yet give you details of a possible reform, because it is too early to do so. However, I am prepared to talk about everything, for example about redefining the categories entitled to a premium on the basis of new indicators; raising the funds for the new target groups; possible extension to other fuels, such as pellets; strengthening the preventive measures through the OMCWs that are crucial in the fight against energy poverty and the distribution of operating costs among the different funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We are probably on the same page when we say that we need to ensure that this allowance is fair and efficient, and that it is mainly about people who need it, that is, people in energy poverty. This allowance should not be granted to wealthy people who own different apartments and receive rent income from them. That should not be the intention. I'm glad you want to reform that. You have given a number of examples, including certainly cases in which I can go along. Only I hope we finally will. That study to which I referred dates back to 2017. In fact, six years ago, I asked the same questions to your predecessors, Mrs Sleurs and Mr Borsus, who were then responsible for this domain. I regret that there has been no evolution in those six years and that we have not ensured that this reform has been implemented. I hope we can do this now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u28	Mrs Samyn, the FPS Finance is responsible for the recognition of non-profit organisations and other institutions that can issue tax certificates for gifts. It is also the FPS Finance that monitors compliance with the rules. More information about this can be found on the website of the FOD. I would therefore like to refer you to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u29	Madam Minister, I did not think it was entirely your competence, but since it is a problem of homeless people, I wanted to ask the question. After all, asking homeless people for money to sleep is rude and far-reaching. That is why I hope that you will be able to expose this to your colleague, the Minister of Finance, to ensure that the money given to such non-profit organisations is certainly well spent and checked a little more. I have mentioned this a number of times, including in the policy paper. Control of such non-profit organisations is very important. After all, it is about money that should be spent on the weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u30	It is not clear to me what signals are being made on the ground. We are indeed working with this government on measures to ensure that workers are positively encouraged to remain at work. The exceptional measure shall contribute to this. Together with Minister of Economy and Work Pierre-Yves Dermagne and the government's partners, we are working on a positive package to support employees throughout their career. The work is definitely not finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u31	The signals from the area are the e-mails and questions from citizens that we, as Members of Parliament, sometimes receive. Since I do not want to talk about an individual dossier here in this committee, I shall, of course, open up the matter. Is it possible to get people who become unemployed at an older age back to work without losing their more advantageous pension calculation system? That is the case now. I have not received a specific answer, but I can send you my example and you can respond to it if necessary. However, I feel that this is something that we need to solve for everyone, not just that one citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u32	Madam Minister, we recently read in the media that thousands of people are at risk of losing their additional benefits to the sickness fund because they have not paid their membership fees for some time. The CM and the Socialist Mutualities would already account for 72,000 people, so for all health insurance funds together for much more. In addition to the compulsory insurance, which all Belgians are guaranteed to be entitled to, people can receive additional insurance through the payment of membership fees for, for example, reimbursement of psychological care or glasses. In addition, they may be able to take out optional insurance for additional benefits, which differ from one sickness fund to another. Now those benefits risk falling away for a lot of Belgians from 1 January 2022. The supplementary insurance scheme means that a person who has not paid a member's allowance for two years or more must wait another two years before being able to re-enter. This creates problems when people rely on these additional allowances. The group of non-payers is very diverse. It could be people who have enough resources but refuse to pay, but also people who live in poverty and simply don't have enough money to pay that membership money. The sickness funds are trying to help as many people as possible. They send memories and try to work proactively in theory. But because of the covid pandemic, the social workers of the sickness funds have not always managed to provide the necessary guidance in time. As a result, some people will soon be removed without proper guidance. There should also be better cooperation with the OMCWs. Madam Minister, you are responsible not only for combating poverty but also for social integration. How do you see the role of the OCMWs? Can you ensure that they are used in good time to support people in poverty who cannot pay the membership fee? How can we solve the GDPR problem, so that data can be exchanged automatically, of course with the consent of the person in question? Then anyone who needs guidance, who also gets and remains insured in good time, will also have additional insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u33	Mrs Lanjri, the door of the OMCW is always open to all those in need of support, including debt mediation. However, the social workers of the OCMWs have been overburdened, especially since the corona crisis. Unlike other services, the OMCWs have always remained open to receiving and helping vulnerable people. I am surprised, moreover, that new tasks are constantly being transferred to the OMCWs, while the political resistance of your party, Mrs Lanjri, is enormous, especially when additional resources are being asked to carry out the tasks properly. Within the framework of the poverty plan and the working group on administrative simplification, I will make the necessary proposals to achieve a more expressive attitude on the part of the OMCWs, as is also stated in the government agreement. As regards the data flows between OCMWs and health insurance funds, I have already contacted my colleague responsible for this. I will also answer Mrs Moscufo's question. As I have just told your colleague, CPAS can always cover these costs in order to avoid the worst. Of course, I will take the evaluation of this data into account with my colleague in charge of the Poverty Plan. However, this measure is not part of the package of urgent social measures in the context of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u34	Madam Minister, today's findings are the result of a law that was introduced two years ago, suspended during the corona period and, in principle, reapplyed from January, unless the government decides otherwise. My question is how we can ensure in the future that vulnerable people, who live in poverty, are not affected by it. We need to find solutions for them, which does not mean that they do not have to pay those membership fees, but that they need to be provided with the necessary guidance. It is not because the doors of the OCMW are open that they are being helped, because often the OCMW simply does not know which people have problems with their health insurance fund. I therefore ask you to make even more the connection between the sickness funds and the OCMW so that people are helped in time. That is my attitude, Madam Secretary. By the way, Madam Secretary, I am disappointed that every time we ask questions, you point an accusing finger at CD&V or Open Vld. It is not because you do not agree with the government that we do not support you to make poverty a priority. Moreover, such points must be clarified in the government. I am doing my best to pull the cart for some of them, both in front of the scenes, here in committee, and behind the scenes. In my view, it does not help the cause to blame colleagues from the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u35	Madam Secretary, recently Secretary of State Mahdi announced that he will give paralympic athletes the same premium as their Olympic colleagues in the future. I would have given him this idea, because it is unjust that there is a difference between olympians and paralympians. They all deliver extraordinary sporting performance and it is therefore necessary, useful and logical that we should put them in the same way and give them the same prize money. I hear there's another problem for people with disabilities. People with disabilities who would receive prize money refuse that very often, because they fear losing their income replacement. The reason is that this prize money is counted, they must indicate it and it is charged in the calculation of the IVT. I find that unfair. People who are not disabled and working can receive their prize money, tens of thousands of euros. However, people with disabilities who cannot work and receive an IVT should not receive their prize money. Are you open to taking those profits premiums out of the calculation of the IVT? Have you already contacted your colleague responsible for Finance? I know that Minister Van Peteghem is also prepared to provide a separate code to ensure that the prize money is less taxed. That then relates to the taxation aspect. However, you are authorized to determine whether that prize money is included in the calculation of the IVT. I hope we can work together to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u36	Mrs Lanjri, Secretary of State Sammy Mahdi has aligned the premiums of Olympic and paralympic athletes. This underlines the government's ambition to make our society more inclusive and equitable. I do receive regular questions about these premiums, particularly from the National Paralympic Committee. My cabinet and my colleague Minister Van Peteghem have already discussed this. For example, the Minister of Finance has ensured that Belgian athletes have to pay less tax on the premiums they earn for top performance, for example at the Olympic Games. My administration is currently considering the problem of compensation. As soon as the concrete results of this analysis are known, I will inform you. Every day I am committed to the full recognition of people with disabilities. They are capable of extraordinary sporting performance, which Belgium can be proud of. We must therefore support these top athletes, including by providing them with financial stability.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u37	Madam Secretary, I am glad that we agree on this. Paralympians must be compensated and rewarded in the same way as Olympics. It is therefore necessary to ensure that they can receive their prize money. That is also my approach, and that is why I am asking you this question. I hope that you and your administration can quickly work out a new arrangement so that they can accept their prize money, especially at the future Games. However, it is not only about the Olympic Games, but also about tournaments in Belgium or premiums that one gets at other games. It is about large and small amounts and we must be able to keep that money.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u38	Madam Minister, we are aware of the objective of the government agreement to allow you to carry out a reform to control the foreseen cost of ageing. You have said on several occasions, in accordance with the government agreement, that pension policy and employment policy are complementary and interdependent. That's correct. Your colleague must, among other things, get people to work. As part of your pension reforms, you will be in contact with the various employers' organisations on several occasions, at the beginning of December. After these talks, they seem rather dissatisfied with your plans. I quote from their press release: "The employers' organisations regret, however, that the proposals on the table tend to make non-work more valuable and thus increase pension expenditure. What specific plans did you explain during this interview? Will you take into account the suggestions made by employers' organisations, so that the link between work and pensions should remain? Are you planning additional exchanges of views with other partners? What's the timing here?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u39	Madam Minister, in the morning of 1 December we had an exchange of views on pensions. At that time, you said that you were acting very discreetly and with caution and did not make your agenda known. The next day we read in the newspaper that you had a conversation that afternoon with the employers' organisations, including VBO, Unizo, UCM and Boerenbond. They were apparently not so happy with what you proposed. They did not agree with your plans for pension reform. They informed the municipality by means of a press release. Apparently, that conversation didn't go smoothly after all. It was also the first time that you sat around the table with the employers' organizations, although in response to my questions you insist that you have many informal contacts. It seems that these contacts are so informal that employers' organizations do not know about them. Madam Minister, what proposals, which therefore make employers' organisations more valuable as non-work and increase pension expenditure, were discussed? Have you only put forward proposals without discussion? I still wonder whether there has been a discussion. Will you include the advice of employers' organisations, in particular the pension based on a credit system, in your reform? Why is that, or why not? When will there be a follow-up to the exchange of views with employers' organisations? I suppose and hope it's not just that one conversation. Will that follow-up talk take place before the end of this year, or will it be something for 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained on the questions raised in the discussion of my policy paper, many informal contacts are taking place. We are discussing the various elements of the proposal presented at the government table at the beginning of September with the partners, parties and academics concerned. Informal contacts are for me encounters with open sights and in an atmosphere of seeking solutions together. I was therefore surprised to read what you also read in the newspaper the day after. I do not want to go into that, because it makes no sense. I want to succeed; that's what I'm going for. I can tell you, as I have done before, that the point system is not or will not be discussed. That doesn't mean I'm telling you anything new. We are working constructively with the aim of restoring confidence and guaranteeing social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u41	Madam Secretary, working on it is certainly the message. There must be mutual trust and in that respect, I do not think that the press release, perhaps produced after disappointment about the content of the conversation, is very appropriate. I wish you good courage. I suppose the talks will continue next year. I hope that we will really find a way to give confidence that there is a sustainable solution to the financing of pensions and that the link between work and retirement will be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u42	Madam Secretary, I expected a meaningless answer. I think I can summarize your answer in this way, because you did not actually say anything, just that you will continue to work. I actually regret your answer, because you have been in office for a year now. You always promise that you will have constructive talks, while you have only recently spoken to the employers' organisations for the first time. You say that you also have informal intensive contacts with the academic world. I wonder what the academics think of your proposals. The signals I'm picking up on that aren't exactly positive either. Allow me to give you some good advice, perhaps also in the interests of pensioners. I do not think you should rely solely on your September proposals, because then you will not get there. You're on the wrong track with that. You say that you are having open-minded discussions, but you exclude the proposal on the points system of the work organisations in advance. I invite you to listen to the argument about this, because that point system is not so bad in itself. You exclude that proposal and build on your September initiatives, proposals that you know have not been well received by your coalition partners either. You are not going through the debates with open eyes at the moment, but with closed eyes. If you listen not only to the employee bank, but also to the employer bank, you may get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u43	Madam Minister, a few weeks ago I asked you a question about the GPMI, following the publication of an evaluation report by the BAPN. In the meantime, you have also received the report of the PPS Social Integration. This report also does not give an exclusively positive picture of the way in which the GPMI is deployed today. At 59 % of the GPMIs progress was made, which is not bad, but at only 23% all objectives were achieved. By the way, I see a lot of similarities in both reports. It turns out, for example, that a lot of people don't really know what kind of contract they're signing. The language is far too legal. It is made one-sided and people are not sufficiently involved. The social assistants of the OCMW also complain that they do not have enough time to accompany the people involved. That is why I believe that a thorough reform is required. I think it is important, among other things, to divide the social assistants between those who have to accompany them and those who may have to check and sanction them. The contracts are best drawn up in simple language. People are getting involved in this step by step and are also given time to think about the GPMI, so that they can provide their own input. Finally, I also think it is important that the social assistants have sufficient time to provide guidance. That is what it is all about in the end. The GPMI is an instrument to guide people towards better integration into society or to work. Work is not possible for everyone, but social integration is. It's not working yet. In the meantime, have you had a conversation with the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network? What results did that call have? Will you reform the system of the GPMI? How are you going to do that? Are you willing to involve the various actors such as the PPS Social Integration, the BAPN and other organisations? When did you plan another IMC to talk about poverty and raise this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u44	As far as the Individualized Project for Social Integration is concerned, I had a good talk with the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network last week. We have come to the conclusion that the findings of the BAPN are closely in line with those of the study organised by the POD social integration. You know that I am a woman of the field and that I do not want to carry out reforms from an ivory tower. As a function of the study and the discussions, I look at the reforms that are necessary and feasible. As far as the Inter-Ministerial Conference is concerned, I am currently working on the final phase of the poverty plan, so that it can be approved during the first half of next year. The IMC will be convened when they are informed of this plan, but it is too early to set a real agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u45	It's not the first time I've asked a question about the GPMI. You could not answer me much concretely earlier, because the consultation with the BAPN had yet to take place. Today I still cannot get a concrete answer to my questions. It's good that the conversation went well. I have also determined that there are similarities between their evaluation and that of your administration. However, you have not yet told me what these reforms are. The IMC on poverty will take place during the first semester of next year. This means that I will have to ask another question in order to find out in concrete terms how you see these reforms. So I will put another question on this shortly. I hope you can tell me when that IMC will take place. That you cannot give a precise date, I understand, but perhaps you can give us a clue as to the month in which it will take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u46	Minister, figures from the King Baudouin Foundation show an increase in the number of homeless women. Some women victims of violence avoid services to help homeless people - mostly male - and prefer to rely on informal relationships to find temporary accommodation. They also remain more dependent on their relatives or the system because of a lack of appropriate solutions. Minister, as part of the Housing First project, is there a special focus on the women's audience? How are social workers trained in the management of this particular group? How many women have been able to participate in the project since its inception, and what is their profile? Could pregnant women have been accompanied?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u47	As you point out, the figures provided by the King Baudouin Foundation show an increase in the number of homeless people, which is evident in very specific groups: young people, women and families. This is obviously very worrying. I am well aware that the issue of gender adds vulnerabilities to this already very precarious situation. For a large majority of these street women, fear of aggression is permanent. That's why I decided, with the support of the SPP Social Integration and the National Lottery, that the call for Housing First projects would pay particular attention to the female public. The sector responded positively to this call. Twenty projects were selected. As they started this month and as they have to grow over two years, it is still premature to answer the question of the target audience, even though it is already known that they will be women. Several pregnant women have already been accompanied. In addition, during the budget conclave, Minister Kitir and I secured EUR 10 million for the development of Housing First in five major cities, reaching an increasing audience such as women and families on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you. For the past ten years, we have seen impoverishment in large cities. Women and single-parent families are the most affected by this precarious situation. Women's lives and how they survive are different from those of men. Therefore, it is important that our public authorities, through CPAS, pay attention to it to help them get out of the street. In any case, I understand that 20 projects have been selected and that the budget conclave has been able to release EUR 10 million. I know that you are attentive to the situation of women and single-parent families, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights made a number of recommendations on Monday's IGO control. They know that you are working on a reform and in particular ask for proportionality in the control of the residence condition, a harmonisation of the duration of the residence condition up to 90 days, and the right to be heard before payment of the benefit is suspended. Because the IGO is an important source of income for many seniors, they believe it is crucial for a decent existence. That is why they are moving forward with human rights. Have you taken note of the advice of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights? Will you take this opinion into account in the discussions in the government on the reform of the IGA procedure, hopefully in order to find a more humane compromise?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, like all the other members of this government, I have received the opinion of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. This opinion contains interesting pistes in relation to the proportionality of the IGO control. Some of them are currently being discussed within the government. Once we have an agreement, the federal pension service will apply a new system, but that's not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u51	Madam Secretary, I realize it is not an easy task. That's why I'm drawing attention to it. I have absolutely no doubt of your intentions to make the control procedure more humane. You have already implemented the first phase, and that is already a great leap towards improvement. On the other hand, I remain convinced that the proposals of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights are closely in line with the proposals I made earlier on the occasion of a legislative proposal by Mrs Lanjri. In a prosperous country like Belgium, everyone deserves a worthy old age. You can't achieve something like that by hunting down vulnerable seniors, as in the past. I hope that all members of the government are aware of the link between the reform of the control procedure and human rights. It is a human right that all senior citizens can fully participate in society. I look forward with particular interest to the Government's proposal on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u52	Ms Leroy, your question is an opportunity for me to remind you that requiring the systematic production of complete statements of account is an interference in the privacy of the user that is not acceptable and that a beneficiary of the right to social integration does not have a legal obligation to present and justify his/her monthly expenses to the CPAS. You asked me that question. So, I'll tell you again: only fraud or suspicion of fraud allows a CPAS to require statements of account from a social beneficiary. Apart from this, this is a practice that is not acceptable at all. This has been confirmed by the case law. I ask my administration to check the practices you report to me and to intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you for this very clear, very firm and essential response. Indeed, I myself was particularly surprised by what you also described as interference with the privacy and consumption patterns of people who, on the pretext that they were in a precarious situation, should justify any act of consumption. I found this particularly difficult. You're telling me that it's possible to report this kind of practice to the administration. The latter will then come into contact with these CPAS, also to support them in procedures that they may master differently or poorly. I shall therefore not fail to refer the matter back to the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u54	Madam Minister, the previous questions were mainly technical in nature. I've been relatively good, too. Now, however, there is a political question. You will also have followed with great interest the congress of your coalition partner, CD&V. A number of proposals were made. One of these proposals is to give people the free choice to retire between the ages of 62 and 67, albeit with a bonus-malus system and financial consequences. When I heard that, I immediately thought of you. After all, this is perhaps a piste that you find interesting, or just not. My question is therefore very clear. What do you think of this proposal? Will you take this with your open visor as part of your pension reform 2.0? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u55	Mr Van der Donkt, I am sorry, but I am not going to tell you what I think about the proposals made by other parties from the majority. In September 2021 I made a proposal myself. As agreed with the Prime Minister, we will soon discuss this proposal within the government. Each Party will then be able to provide comments and alternatives. My analysis of these proposals will also be discussed within the government with Mr Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u56	That's a more or less expected answer. I have remembered that the other parties are allowed to make alternative proposals. So we can do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u57	Each party has alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u58	But will you also listen to our proposals? We also have many proposals. From the outset, I have offered you constructive thinking. When you fasten up, and I think this is gradually happening, we are prepared to throw you a rope and pull you out of the swamp in the interests of pensioners. But you'll have to ask. That's just a joke. All right, I look forward to it. You know I care about the file, and I'm trying to get some of this out of you. I respect your political tactical attitude in this matter, but I will continue to bother you with this. Thank you for your answer, which was actually not an answer, but okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u59	Mrs Leroy, I should not be convinced of the usefulness of this "psychological well-being" grant. I was able to see the need for this, especially in times of health crisis, as well as the very good initiatives that have been taken by the CPAS to implement it. It is with pleasure that I can announce that the period of use of this subside has been extended by three months, until the end of March. The same applies to covid or Zoom 18/25 subsidies. This is very good news for CPAS. With regard to the sustainability of psychological assistance in CPAS, I can tell you that this issue is currently being examined by my office. As has already been mentioned in the discussions on the 2022 budget, three million euros will be dedicated to this issue of psychological well-being until 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic643x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Very good initiatives have indeed been taken within the CPAS. And it must be noted that it is difficult to stop the mechanisms put in place. You know that we are particularly committed to ensuring the mental health of recipients of social integration income. So this is clearly good news. We will discuss this issue at a later stage. I wonder how the three million will be distributed among the CPAS of the territory. When you have information on this, I would like you to share it with us. In any case, I will put a written question to you in this regard.
