ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u1	We will begin our meeting. Welcome, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u2	Mr Secretary of State, this issue is high on the agenda. We saw the terrible floods in Wallonia and also a piece in Flanders. Everyone sees that there is a need for help and that additional investment is needed for reconstruction. The question is how exactly this will be organised and paid for. You have proposed the creation of a new EUR 1.2 billion flood fund, of which EUR 600 million would be paid by the federal government. I would also like to draw your attention to a number of other issues in the news, for example the fact that Jan Jambon, the Flemish Prime Minister, has made the offer to grant a loan or guarantee on very favourable terms. I would like to stress that these are two separate discussions. I can see that they are mixed up in the media, but these are two completely different things. The loan concerned earlier the talks between the Walloon Government and the insurance sector. Among other things, the insurance sector has proposed to prefinance a number of cases at a rate of 0 %. The story of the Flemish government is more in that context. Your proposal is about something completely different. It's about the flood fund. A number of newspaper articles show some uncertainty about your proposal. I have the impression that your proposal is being read in two ways. I do not want to put words in anyone's mouth, but I have the impression that a group of people is reading your proposal as a blank cheque, suggesting that EUR 600 million is given from the federal budget that can somehow be used in Wallonia, especially by the Walloon government. Other people, I belong to, read the article differently. You seem to be in favour of conditionalization of aid. So you want to attach a number of conditions to the project that would be set up. It is about the duration of the project, the nature of the projects, but also about their follow-up. At the time you talk about a period of five years. What's the deal with that, exactly? Should the projects be launched and completed within five years? As regards the demarcation, you say in the newspaper that it should be about public infrastructure with national utility. I think you're conditioning the support there. You say that the money can only be used for public infrastructure of national use, but it is not quite clear what you mean by that. What kind of infrastructure are we talking about? Is it effective about large infrastructure that is a federal competence? We read that you also mentioned, for example, schools, which are a regional competence. What exactly is the division of labour? What is the relationship with the Europeans, and with the 1.2 billion or 1.4 billion for additional investments? What's the exact scope? Is there effective some kind of conditioning? Isn't it? My final point concerns the follow-up. You suggested that a follow-up committee be set up, with a maximum of four people per Entity. One per state and one of the federal government, I suppose. I wonder how you guarantee that the follow-up will be sufficiently professional and independent. Politicians have to make policy choices, but they should not do project management. That's what professional people are doing. My impression is that you are making a proposal which is actually in line with the rest of your projects. You will receive European money, which will be used for a particular purpose. Conditioned. Linked to a number of reforms. Followed up by a European Expert Committee or another expert committee. It would be nice to see whether it is a blank cheque or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u3	Thank you, Mr Loones, for your question. First of all, I would like to thank the Flemish Government. There is the political context. There is the very difficult situation in Wallonia. This is a sign of solidarity from the Flemish Government, and we would like to thank the Flemish Government for that. The issue is currently being discussed within the government. The precise details of this cooperation mechanism still need to be specified. We did indeed have a proposal which was discussed today. There are many opportunities to show solidarity from the federal level. The basis of the reasoning is as follows: after an initial analysis, the Walloon Commissariat for Reconstruction estimated the overall amount of post-flood reconstruction to be approximately €4 billion all entities, including the federal but also the Communities (e.g. schools and cultural institutions). It seemed to us, in particular by looking at the situation in other federal states, that in general, as in Germany, for example, as a result of the floods, the Federal Government has borne 50% of the infrastructure expenditure of the Länder concerned. You're an expert in institutional construction. One federal state is obviously not the other. For example, in the United States, following Hurricane Katrina, a form of solidarity at the federal level was expressed, regardless of institutional construction. Indeed, it can be seen that, particularly in the case of these floods, the European level, which is in no way competent for natural disasters, has expressed solidarity from a political point of view, but also from a financial point of view, through an intervention by the European Solidarity Fund. It therefore seemed to us legitimate, knowing that the Walloon government would intervene in a consistent manner, which is quite normal since things are very much within its competence, and also knowing that solidarity will be expressed at European level, that solidarity also takes place at federal level. On this basis, several mechanisms have been evaluated, including a proposal for intervention which we have made concerning infrastructures of national utility, as mentioned, in order to find a hangover that can be formulated in a cooperation agreement. This proposal is now being discussed within the government, knowing that other modalities are on the table. These are evaluated. We must not focus so much on the mechanism, but on political expression. In a federal state, from the moment when solidarity has been expressed at European and regional level, in the face of large-scale unanticipated events, solidarity must be expressed. I want to say, no matter what. In order to paraphrase an English quotation, I think that we will always face institutional constraints. Mais comme on l'a vu pendant le covid: "If there is a will, there is a way." It's a message we want to send. This solidarity must be expressed, regardless of the institutional means. In fact, I think that the budgetary conclave of the next few days will be important to see to what extent budget porting is possible and what the modalities are envisaged. I can reassure you that the various modalities are being discussed at the very moment when we are meeting to examine the extent to which this solidarity can be expressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u4	Minister, I understand that it is not about the purpose but about the means to be used. You just want to give the political signal that we are considering a system for investing in the most affected areas. Whether this is done through the mechanism you are proposing or another mechanism is not the core. However, I am still hungry for an answer to my fundamental question as to whether, apart from the mechanism, conditions are attached to the receipt of federal money. In Europe, for example, when the corona crisis broke out, a support mechanism was installed, but conditions were attached to it immediately. For example, a Member State must specify, and you are the co-author of the relay plan here, what the money is spent on, and that cannot be done at all. A percentage should be allocated to green projects and digitalisation respectively, and it should be demonstrated that reforms are being carried out. The more fundamental question is therefore whether the flood aid mechanism follows the same dynamic and is therefore partly conditioned or whether the beneficiaries expect a flow of money. We will establish the answer to that as soon as the talks in the government are concluded. With this you already know the sensitivities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, together with the Minister of Finance, you have launched the Belgian Recovery Fund, which is expected to raise up to 350 million euros, including 100 million public money from the Transformation Fund. This money will be managed by the French asset management company Tikehau Capital and will be used for equity investments in private companies, among others as part of the energy transition. You yourself acknowledge that the Belgian investment plan from the European manna is largely insufficient to meet the government's own target of 4% and 3.5% of GDP by 2024. Why put public money in private capital? That's the first question I'm asking myself. Moreover, it is public money managed for the private and private sector. Why don't we give this mission to the SFPI, whose job is to choose Tikehau Capital, a company founded by Antoine Flamarion, former director of Goldman Sachs, an investment bank involved in a series of scandals, and having among its shareholders Bernard Arnault? As far as Bernard Arnault is concerned, I have been looking into his case for a short time since I had already revealed in 2012 the creation by this French billionaire of a private foundation in Belgium for the purpose of succession planning and its massive use of notional interests in Belgium. This subscriber to tax avoidance who had also applied for Belgian nationality had been pointed out for a false domicile in Belgium. It was through a criminal transaction that he was able to escape a trial in our country as a result of these misappropriations. It can be said that it is not really to this kind of character that one wants to confide the taxpayer's money. We have the impression that that's what we're doing here. Bernard Arnault, or his lieutenants in any case, will be responsible for managing the taxpayer's money. I also note that Tikehau Capital was founded in 2004 with the initial financial support of the late Albert Brother who, besides being a business partner of Bernard Arnault, built his fortune through policies that I call public finance looting policies. We know the files: Cockerill Sambre, Fortis/BNP Paribas or abroad, Quick, Petrobras in Brazil, etc. Therefore, this is not a very reassuring lineage for a project involving public funds. Rather than placing this public money in private companies, is it not better to invest it in projects over which the State exercises control? Why not let the SFPI allow these funds to be managed? Finally, don't you think that Tikehau Capital's profile is quite doubtful? Should we let Bernard Arnault and his lieutenants manage the Belgian taxpayer's money?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u6	I missed you, Mr. Van Hees! It's a great pleasure to see you again after the summer. I will now answer your questions more seriously. In early September, the Minister of Finance and I launched the Belgian Recovery Fund to support our economy and strengthen businesses after the corona crisis. As you said, up to EUR 350 million will be made available to improve the solvency of companies that were healthy before the corona crisis. It is a rescue fund – hence the name "recovery" – designed to strengthen the solvency of companies that have been affected by the health crisis. He's responding to a certain urgency. This is why it was set up in record time to help companies whose needs are absolutely urgent. Mrs Houtmeyers, you asked about the operation and objectives of this fund. The Belgian Recovery Fund will have two sources of funding. There will be 100 million euros from the FPIM through her subsidiary Relaunch. Furthermore, there will be up to €250 million from institutional investors. In concrete terms, the Belgium Recovery Fund will support companies that meet the following cumulative criteria: they are companies established in Belgium or with a significant share of income and activities on Belgian territory, employing more than five full-time equivalents, which were healthy before the covid crisis – i.e. they were not experiencing substantial difficulties and had positive net assets before the covid crisis, at the date decided on 31 December 2019 – which can demonstrate the credibility of their business model in the future and integrate a transformational dimension of the economy (enhancing employment, contributing to the transition to meet the major societal challenges, etc.). Companies in any sector can apply for support from the Belgian Recovery Fund. Moreover, it is clear that those which do not meet the European ESG sustainable investment standards are excluded. In response to Mrs Houtmeyers' more precise question, the notion of "zombie company" is therefore not taken up as an excluded criterion. We have drawn up the list of eligibility criteria - which I have just listed - that seem relevant to us in order to identify the right candidates for this fund. The investment amounts will be between 5 and 20 million per company. It is difficult to give a precise answer to Mrs Houtmeyers' supplementary question concerning the number of companies that could be supported by the fund. However, if this amounts to between 5 and 20 million from a fund containing 350 million, then 17 to 70 companies can be supported. I come to the question of Mr. Van Hees. After a consultation that involved more than forty fund managers across Europe, it was indeed Tikehau that was appointed to attract institutional investors and to assume part of the preparation of the management of fund files. The Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement (SFPI) and Tikehau have extensive expertise and experience in supporting business financing. The binome seems to me perfectly equipped to implement, in an emergency, what the government has decided through the Belgian Recovery Fund. Mr Van Hees, you are wondering about the opportunity to rely on Tikehau. From a purely organizational point of view, it should be noted that when the decision was taken on May 25, 2021, the SFPI had only about 20 employees, including fewer than 10 investment portfolio managers. We have therefore been forced to strengthen very strongly, in the short term, the analytical capacity. This should be done, among other things, to ensure that public funds are best spent on companies that really need them, which create jobs in Belgium, but also to avoid what is sometimes observed when there is public investment, i.e. the effects of a boon and the misuse or misuse of public funds by private companies with certain deviances. I think that we share the same objective. I agree with you on the need to strengthen the "muscle" of the SFPI. For us, it has a very important role to play in the image of what other sovereign wealth funds are doing in Europe. This is why, in parallel with this effort, a recruitment plan has been validated by the Board of Directors, particularly at the level of the Relance subsidiary, to strengthen the SFPI in its missions. Indeed, we are forced to rely on short-term external expertise because there is an urgent need to invest, but we are well aware of the need to strengthen the organization of the SFPI to make it a real sovereign fund. Tikehau has been selected for his expertise in the instruments that are targeted, notably in subordinated debt, convertible debt and equity, and his knowledge of the Belgian fabric within a process that has put in competition more than forty fund managers. He is an actor who has proved his worth in other mechanisms of the same kind in Europe, whether in Spain or France. In relation to what you say about Bernard Arnault, let me correct you by stating that it is a fake news. While Bernard Arnault is indeed a minority shareholder in Tikehau, Tikehau is a group owned by its founders. Bernard Arnault has no direct or indirect control over Tikehau. Nor is it in the governance bodies. As far as Albert Frère is concerned, I would like to join you in the historical analysis. This has greatly occupied my intellectual consciousness, being myself from Charleroi and having observed the steel industry. But I think we're a little far away from these considerations today.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u7	I am convinced that it is absolutely a good and necessary initiative and that it will save and benefit many companies. I am a little concerned about the control mechanisms that are being built in. As with, for example, all expenditure or all aid that has already been granted, it is absolutely important to check that this is done properly and that there are no malicious companies among them. You don't want to completely rule out these zombie companies. The risk remains that these healthy companies will be dragging along. That's how they all go down together. Then we get a domino effect, combined with the fact that we're not sure that we'll ever see the money that's being spent again and be repaid. I am absolutely curious about the mid-term evaluations. They're probably gonna happen all the time. I'm sure I'll be happy to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u8	Mr President, Secretary of State, this tendency to invest in the private sector is a whole part of your policy. You say that this is an emergency fund to help businesses that need it most, but the Transformation Fund is not limited to that. Other means of this fund are allocated to the private sector: the public investment plan itself also often involves private companies, and I have already had the opportunity to tell you that. As for the choice of Tikehau Capital, you say that it is a big company - just like Goldman Sachs, one of the creators of which also had great expertise to manipulate Greece's accounts, among other things. I doubt that's the kind of expertise we need. Compared to Bernard Arnault, you confirm that he is a shareholder, albeit a minority, of this company. I can assure you that a shareholder of this size weighs his weight in a society. I'm not going to sue you for intent, but I think you need to be vigilant yourself. I believe that you are in part because you have resigned from certain bodies, such as the trilateral or the Foundation of the Brother Family that we have just talked about, when you became Secretary of State. That's a good thing. I hope, however, that this "reflex" which is to forge this kind of connection, you have made it self-critical and that you have moved on to another stage of your political vision. Indeed, I think it is the kind of conflict of interest that can cause serious problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u9	Mr Loones, you had two questions. I assume you'll put them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u10	Mr President, did I have two questions? I thought I only had one on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u11	There's two of them with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u12	Mr President, my other question concerns the conditionality of additional investment. Now I ask my question about the European Relance Fund. I will be very brief on the European Recovery Fund. We all know that the European Corona Restoration Fund can be used for projects in this country. Agreements have been made between the federal government and the federal states. This is regulated at European level and linked to economic growth. Now it appears that economic growth is better than initially expected. That seems good news, but it is not, in this case, because it would reduce us to EUR 750 million. So we are not getting EUR 5.9 billion. There's 750 million euros going off. Mr Secretary of State, much can be said about this. I hope, however, that you will not tell us that this is good news. After all, it is not. There are three reasons for this. Firstly, economic growth is indeed doing better, but we do not excel in Europe. Our economic growth is the lowest compared to all European countries. Three countries are doing even worse, but all other European countries will have higher economic growth than us. Secondly, we had received EUR 5.9 billion, but actually that amount was too little. According to more accurate parameters, that should have been much more. In the light of the average European countries have received, we should have been entitled to EUR 12 billion in relation to our gross domestic product and to the damage. We only received EUR 5.9 billion. We have had this debate here in Parliament on several occasions. You are undoubtedly aware of this. A further EUR 750 million is now going to go. Thirdly, investments are not paid in percentage terms but in cents. It is not because economic growth is improving as a percentage that an investment in digitalisation, in a bridge or in green energy in cents is cheaper. In reality, you will have EUR 750 million less in money to invest. The fact that the percentage is better is not good news for a country that is already underfunded and has large budgetary requirements. The question is simple. Can you confirm the discussion? Has this been discussed within the government but also with the Länder? How will the figures be processed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u13	Mr Loones, one of your questions was also addressed to Minister Van Peteghem. That question was sent here, too. The question was perhaps similar. That is why there are two questions from you on the agenda. The same applies to Mr Vermeersch. He too has a question which was originally addressed to Mr Van Peteghem, but which will be answered here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u14	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Minister for Finance seems to have passed the hot potato on to you. Mr Loones has already indicated that Belgium will receive some EUR 5.9 billion from the European Recovery Fund. In order to boost the economy, the Flemish government developed a relaunch plan of 4.3 billion euros in September 2020. It demanded EUR 3 billion from the European Recovery Fund, but finally came home with only EUR 2.25 billion. This amount is even less than the amount received by the Walloon and Brussels authorities together. After all, the federal government receives EUR 1.25 billion from the fund, or approximately 21%. Approximately 38% or €2.25 billion goes to Flanders. The Walloon authorities receive more than 34% or EUR 2 billion and the Brussels Region receives 7%, a small EUR 400 million. An article by the National Bank states that Belgium will receive EUR 750 million less than currently planned. I would like to ask four questions about this. Firstly, can the Minister confirm these insights from the National Bank, in particular that Belgium will receive EUR 750 million less from the recovery fund? Secondly, the Flemish Minister for the Budget and Finance, Matthias Diependaele, states that the wrong parameters are used to distribute the money. Countries that recover slower and grow less get less money. Unemployment, for example, weighs very heavily. As a result, countries that do badly in this area receive a lot more money than other countries. Can you, as Secretary of State, agree with the position of your Flemish colleague? Will the federal government once again call into question the parameters and distribution at the European level? Thirdly, Minister Diependaele is committed to maintaining the EUR 4.3 billion investment in the Flemish relay plan, regardless of the amount that Flanders will eventually receive from Europe. Can the Flemish Government continue to count on these EUR 2.25 billion from the European Recovery Fund? Fourthly, what level will the reduction in revenue ultimately be? How will these lower revenues be distributed among the different entities? Will this be proportionate or by another method? What procedure will be followed? Can the federal government state its position on the distribution of the expected less revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u15	I agree with the same item. It is therefore effective to say that there is 750 million less because of higher growth, but certainly not the highest. Did you hear the competent government members of the Länder on this? Are certain projects at risk? If so, which one? How is the reduction collected? Which key is used to recover the reduction on the respective regional and federal projects? Are the reduced budgets covered by the budget? Finally, in general terms, did Belgium already receive relay budgets from Europe? Then where were these already deployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u16	Thank you all three for your questions. I can confirm to Mrs Verhelst, Mr Loones and Mr Vermeersch that, on the basis of the European Commission's economic forecast for the summer of 2021, Belgium could see the size of its maximum financial envelope reduced by EUR 750 million under the European Recovery Plan. That's a maximum amount. This represents a maximum of just over 10% of the total envelope. First of all, I am very pleased that colleagues from these three parties, like us, believe that investments in transition and in our infrastructure are really important and are one of the greatest challenges of our generation. Secondly, it is useful to remember that this is a recovery fund. 70% of the total envelope is a fixed amount, while 30% of the amount depends on recovery. The stronger the recovery, the smaller the amount, that makes sense. It is a fund that focuses on countries that are struggling with recovery. So if Belgium is doing better, it is logical that it gets a little less. I would add that the initial amount was determined on the basis of the forecast of one year ago, i.e. at the start of this government. Now, one year later, the National Bank's prognosis is more favourable, because the confidence of entrepreneurs is greater and because the management of the sanitary crisis in Belgium is better than in other countries. We therefore have a better economic forecast, which is a positive signal, also for the work of our governments. I would like to remind you that at the moment it is only an assumption that will only be verified in June 2022, when the European Commission will update the autumn economic forecast for 2020. The reduction will therefore not be confirmed until June next year. In addition, we should particularly welcome the economic revival, which translates into an exceptional revival of confidence in our companies, which will enable the Belgian authorities to save around EUR 7 billion in the budget. This figure corresponds to the reduction in the general government deficit over the period 2020-2021. Our subsidies will therefore be reduced by between EUR 0 and 750 million, but the net impact on public finances will be positive, because we will have additional public revenues thanks to the higher economic growth in our country. So it really is a positive signal that the economy is improving and I think that the reduction in European subsidies that we receive is not comparable to the higher revenue of the government thanks to stronger growth. As far as the ambition of our plan and the projects included in it are concerned, I believe at this stage that there is no reason to change anything for at least two reasons. Firstly, the federal investment projects under the European Recovery Plan have been assessed by the Federal Planning Office and the European Commission as good investments that are both productive and useful to ensure, in particular, the digital and environmental transition. Investment will have a direct impact on economic activity and will automatically increase our GDP. They will also contribute to the growth potential of the economy and to job creation in the future by creating the conditions for increased productivity and competitiveness. Therefore, ending some of the projects because of less EU funding would be economically nonsense. Secondly, why does it make no sense, at this stage, to review the list of projects? As I have already mentioned, the cyclical beautification announced by the National Bank will have the direct effect of lifting certain constraints on our public finances and of creating additional budgetary margins. For analysing the state budget, you know that some items, whether in revenue or in expenditure, are highly dependent on growth. Therefore, if there is strong growth, additional margins will be cleared. We have calculated that, thanks to the additional growth prospects, public budgets will benefit from additional margins of €7 billion. It is therefore incomparable with regard to the loss of subsidies. On the one hand, we have a risk, which will be assessed in June 2022, of losing 700 million but on the other hand, we have a bonus on public finances, generated by the additional growth, which is in a ratio of 1 to 10. In view of the above, there is no objective reason not to assume budgetary responsibility for the implementation of these projects and, possibly, to transfer them to the own budgets of the governments concerned. With regard to pre-financing, although we were among the last on the starting line, our intensive work over the last few months seems to have borne fruit in cooperation with all the country's entities, because we were among the first three Member States to benefit from European pre-financing under the recovery and resilience facility. The European Regulation establishing this facility allows up to 13% of each Member State's envelope to be paid once the plan has been approved and the financing agreement has been signed by both parties. This was done for Belgium on 27 July 2021. As the budget is estimated at EUR 5.9 billion at this stage, pre-financing amounted to EUR 770 million. This amount was paid into a federal account and then distributed to the entities according to the general distribution key approved by the Consultation Committee in January. According to the distribution key, the share of this envelope corresponds to 162 million euros which allowed to feed the organic fund created specifically to manage the recovery plan. This amount has not been allocated to specific departments. Departments that have to make expenditure in order to start their project(s) forward their files to the SPF BOSA, which is responsible for cross-cutting management and charges expenditure in accordance with the usual administrative and budgetary control procedures. Mr President, I would be grateful if you would excuse me for slightly exceeding my speaking time, but the subject is important. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the authorization for this fund to present debt positions in liquidation and in commitment makes it possible to achieve these expenses, even in the absence of available resources. In other words, all the projects that need to start right now in order to achieve the implementation objectives described in the European decision can begin. Therefore, I encourage all jurisdictions to launch their project(s) without further delay. Indeed, as you know, for each project there are master execution targets to be carried out every six months and for which we will carry out a reporting within this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u17	You're trying to tell us that getting 750 million less is actually good news. It really isn't. You end up with figures that we lose 750 million, but instead we get 7 billion more because of economic growth. In reality, all other European countries, except three, have even greater economic growth. They will therefore have an even more positive return. We've already been scammed by using the wrong parameters. We should have gotten much more than we actually got. It has been chosen not to look at the damage of corona, and to choose economic keys that have nothing to do with it. We were fooled the first time, and now we will be fooled again because our economic growth is lower than in other countries and we still have to cut back. This isn't a percentage story, this is a penny story. There's 750 million less, when we're actually getting too little. This government is so eager to be European, you forget to stand up for our own interests. I really would advise you to stop doing that. All other European countries try to do at least or ideally the two. They try both to be European-minded and to look at their own needs. The naivety buys you over and over again. We get less than our share. You say that nothing will be changed yet because we will only know in June next year what is the final calculation of what we can get less. That's a little special. Yesterday a report by Bruegel appeared, which combines all the relay projects. All countries get about the same points, while Belgium jumps out again. We are getting less good points in terms of coherence of the plan. It is your responsibility to guard that coherence. So there's definitely some work to be done. Let's take that sufficiently seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u18	You counted my party one of the three parties that would be warmed up by that recovery fund. I'd like to make that right. Flanders, as well as Belgium, will contribute net to this fund, while Flanders was most affected by that crisis within Belgium. Moreover, the Flemish Government has very badly negotiated this recovery fund. Flanders receives 38% less than 34% for the Walloon authorities and 7% for the Brussels authorities. Secondly, you are boasting with the growth impact of this fund. This would be a budgetary plus for Belgium. However, this does not correspond to the real figures. The impact on growth is estimated by the Court of Auditors at some percentage points of GDP. Belgium is already paying EUR 7.7 billion to the European Union today, without the recovery fund. In the end, we will contribute more billions to that recovery fund than we will ever get out of it. You also did not answer the question of how this EUR 750 million will be distributed among the different entities. This creates very little confidence, because we fear that Flanders will come to the shortest conclusion and eventually become the child of the account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u19	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the answer. I heard that there are uncertainties and it is important that the investments should not stop. Like Mr Loones, I believe that we must act every day for our country as well as for our country. Our relance is doing well, but the crew to achieve it is not enough. Please take that with you because it is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u20	Mr President, Secretary of State, the first cycle of your State Secretariat has been devoted to managing the European Resilience Plan. I think this has been done effectively. While Belgium is leaving behind its neighbours, you have shown that federalism of cooperation is working. It is therefore EUR 5.9 billion that can be invested in the ecological transition and mobility of tomorrow, as we have already mentioned with you. Today, we have entered the "second cycle" of your mandate. Here, the stakes are double. First, these Europe-funded projects must be carried out and therefore be extremely effective in implementing the resilience plan. Secondly, the challenge is to go even further in terms of public investment. Going towards 4% of GDP in 2030 with a 3.5% step in 2024, the commitment is also included in the government agreement. This is necessary if we are to respond to the sense of urgency that exists in the face of the structural challenges of our economy (decarbonizing the economy, moving towards more environmentally friendly ways of moving, etc.).). In this context, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you three questions. Firstly, it was reported in the press this summer that a first tranche of the European Recovery and Resilience Fund of the order of 770 million had been released. Belgium is a leading trio of the first countries of the European Union to be able to do so. Can you tell us a little more about this? How were these amounts allocated? Secondly, I have also learned that you have, together with the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Peteghem, launched the Belgian Recovery Fund, EUR 350 million to strengthen the solvency of Belgian companies after the crisis linked to the Covid epidemic. Could you describe the operation and objectives of this fund? Finally, discussions are currently under way in the government to examine how to meet the commitment of the government agreement: going towards 4% of GDP in 2030 with a 3.5% step in 2024. Can you provide an update on these discussions? What method is in place at the federal level to achieve this? (Connecting problem)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u21	Indeed, the government agreement puts 4% of public investment at the forefront by 2030 and an intermediate target of 3.5 % by 2024. For federal policy, this means additional investment of 2 billion by 2024. Of the five working groups set up at the initiative of the Prime Minister for the preparation of a XXL relay plan, a working group chaired jointly by the Prime Minister and myself is looking at investment. My fellow ministers provided us with 37 project sheets, amounting to EUR 3.3 billion, which, according to the same axes as those in our European Plan for Recovery and Resilience that we submitted to the European authorities at the end of April. In addition to these 37 fact sheets on investment projects, we have also introduced four accompanying action sheets for a better investment policy. It is well known that in Belgium it is not only a budgetary matter to be able to make large investments, but also an issue of administrative implementation. Fast track is needed to ensure that investment projects are properly executed. These projects must meet a range of criteria, which we are currently evaluating, in order to be able to rank them. It is clear that not all projects will be funded, in any case not entirely. This includes assessing the leverage effect on the private sector, economic performance, the contribution to the renewal of our economy, and the transition to a low-carbon economy. I can tell you that in the context of the budgetary conclave, discussions are taking place on this subject in parallel with a fine inspection of the projects by the Finance Inspectorate. With regard to coordination with federated entities, addressed in many of your questions, we are here on investments that fall within federal jurisdiction. It is therefore not intended to enter into a specific dialogue with the federated entities. That said, the advantage of anchoring itself in the structure of the European Recovery Plan is that its very structure had been defined with the Regions to ensure that there is coherence between the different axes for specific topics, particularly in the case of infrastructure projects. For these projects, which are numerous, special consultations will of course be undertaken with the federated entities to ensure that they are coherent and, above all, that they are carried out properly. In conclusion, be assured that the monitoring of investment projects contained in this plan – not a new plan but an additional layer of investments along the same lines as the recovery plan – will be ensured by following the same procedures as set out in the recovery and resilience plan. In particular, it is planned to organise a report on the implementation of the projects twice a year, in principle at the end of April and October. I would be pleased to come and present systematically the results of this reporting work to Parliament. Progress in project implementation will also be accessible through open and online communication tools. For monitoring and audit, all the projects discussed here will be subject to all the usual administrative and budgetary control procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u22	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. As I have already indicated, I would like to be referred to my question as it has been tabled. That said, Minister, unfortunately I have not been able to hear your answer as a whole because of a connection problem. But I'm sure she was excellent. In any case, I will not fail to refer to it in the minutes of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u23	Thanks for the answers. So I hear that there will be a report twice a year that will bring you here. We'll look forward to it and make sure they're properly audited. However, I keep repeating: make sure that more people get to work, because all these investments cannot be made without people. That's my biggest message, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u24	Yes, there are some reassuring messages. You say that you yourself are chairing the investment group in which you are holding the discussions with the Prime Minister, and that you will do the reporting and follow-up. You also point out that the same reasoning applies to European investment funds. These are reassuring signals, also because we as a Parliament need to organise ourselves in order to be able to follow up on these investments. In this way we know that investments are the toys of Secretary of State Dermine and we can see whether they are being handled correctly. Secondly, you say that there is a connection between the logic and structure of the European recovery fund. Well, then we really want to press for this to be done fully, not only in dividing up into, for example, some green and some digital investments, but also in linking those investments to reforms. In this respect, I should like to add my voice to what Mr Verhelst has said. You say that it is not enough to plan an investment, but that we must also ensure that the procedures are good so that they are carried out on the ground. If we're all gonna build and renovate what we're all gonna do, Kathleen's 100 percent right: there's not enough hands to operationalize those projects. Your plan will therefore only be successful if it is accompanied by labour market reforms. Please keep that focus and make sure that clutch is made. If we are all going to build and remodel Mrs Verhelst will be very satisfied, I think. And if we do that very energeticly, it will only cost 1% registration fees in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-09-29-definitief-55-commissie-ic582x.u25	Colleagues, you will also have seen that we have tried to plan with the secretariat for the autumn, so that all ministers and secretaries of state can come regularly. There are six, so that was a difficult exercise, thanks to the services for that. On the intranet, you'll find an overview of the moments when every minister and secretary of state comes, and I think that's good for your planning, too. It's arranged for the whole fall. Perhaps a shift will be needed here and there, but we will try to follow that planning as closely as possible.
