ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u1	Mr President, Minister, a new Central Bank has been issued in the meantime, but I do not think that the question would be without object. This question was suggested to me by real lawyers. These are people who fall over small things that can always give rise to problems. My intervention concerns two wordings in the Royal Decree. We have already had a public discussion about how many people one may meet in a holiday accommodation. Can one come together and have a good time or is that forbidden? In the meantime, I hope there will be some clarity about that. The two questions I would like to put now concern first of all the terminology, the rules, and I would urge the plurality of rules of social distancing. In the current KB the wording is used that the rules of social distancing relate in particular to maintaining a distance of one and a half meters between persons. If there is an explicit mention of rules and not the rule, then the plural must stand for something. Then what are the other rules of social distancing, except for the distance of one and a half meters? Secondly, this is something that occurs in several KBs, and earlier in MB's, we find the wording "without prejudice to the applicable protocol'. Can we deduce from this that a protocol may contain a provision that goes against the applicable KBs? Since protocols are not published in the Belgian Official Journal, this may create problems of legal certainty. How can the citizen be aware of the protocols he or she is supposed to comply with?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u2	Mr President, Mr De Roover, the rules of social distancing are indeed mentioned in the Royal Decree. This means a number of anti-infectious or controlling actions or measures aimed at stopping or at least slowing down the spread of the virus and the infectious disease. The aim is to avoid, or at least reduce, physical contact between those who are infected or who might be infected and others, in order to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus. In particular, keeping a distance of one and a half meters is crucial, but social distancing also implies, for example, avoiding large groups, many contacts on a limited surface and greetings involving physical contact, or still, coughing and sneezing in the elbow, away from the bystanders. At the moment, the rules of social distancing apply as a strong recommendation to everyone, except, for example, persons living under the same roof or meeting at home. As far as your second question on the protocols is concerned, I can say that a protocol is a special document defined by the Minister responsible, and so is the Community or regional powers, drawn up in consultation with the sector concerned, which lays down rules which are generally applicable to undertakings and associations of the sector in the exercise of their usual activities. The protocols can only give substance to the measures provided for in the Royal Decree, but they cannot be of a regulatory nature themselves. In this context, Article 27 of the Royal Decree expressly states that provisions of a guide or a protocol which are less strict than the rules of the Decree should not apply. Only the more detailed or further provisions will therefore be applicable in agreement with the sector. At the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 26 November, it was decided that private meetings should only be organized outside, with a few specific exceptions, as confirmed at the most recent meeting of the Consultative Committee on 3 December. Where such meetings take place at home or in a small accommodation, an exception shall apply and may also take place indoors. It was not the intention of the Consultation Committee to prevent a large group of friends or family members from renting a holiday home or to limit the size of such a group. In the light of the unfavourable epidemiological conditions, it was decided to be able to meet each other without restrictions to small tourist accommodations, in particular those with a capacity of up to 15 people. In concrete terms, this means that if you stay with more than 15 people in a tourist accommodation, you are not allowed to receive in addition guests to those staying in the accommodation, except for a wedding or a funeral. I would also like to refer to the provisions relating to events, which require publicly accessible events to use the CST when they are organised for an audience of more than 50 people inside or more than 100 people outside. In this case, they are covered by the regime and definition that applies today to mass events. For smaller events falling within the minimum limits, the use of the CST is today not required by the Royal Decree of 28 October. In accordance with the cooperation agreement of 14 June, mandatory application of the CST may be extended to smaller events by the governor, the mayors or the Länder. In addition, any organiser of a small event may choose to use the CST, even if it is not mandatory on the basis of the Royal Decree, Order, Police Regulation or Decision, but only if the organiser has informed the visitors beforehand and the other modalities applicable to mass events are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is certainly not a reproach to you, but when common sense needs to be supplemented by rules, people find themselves very quickly in Kafkaian situations. One must then take into account all eventualities, knowing well that this is not possible and that there is a gap here and there. As a result, I think many citizens are a bit out of control. You say it goes beyond a foot and a half. Large groups, close contacts, limited space, these are all relative concepts. About a foot and a half, that's obvious. 5'4" still invading, The other provisions, of course, are rather suggestions. Anyway, you expounded. As far as the protocols are concerned, I would nevertheless like to point out that I agree with them to the extent that they only apply to the sectors concerned and can therefore have direct communication. However, the ordinary citizen cannot take note of this and is sometimes caught by the content of such protocols, especially when it says 'without prejudice to the applicable protocol'. When a citizen reads that in a KB, of course he asks himself what those other things are. This must therefore be taken into account in communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u4	Mr President, I am surprised that no item on the order of business for this afternoon has been included. You know that together with my colleagues Philippe Pivin and Denis Ducrame, we sent two requests to the secretariat of the committee, the first concerning the follow-up of the recommendations of the Attentats Committee and the second concerning our proposal to hear the Police Trade Union Front in the negotiations on the sectoral agreement. I am therefore quite surprised that nothing has been planned on the agenda on this subject. Indeed, the expectations of the federal police and local police are high. We do not ask to hear them today, but the social movement has been going on for more than a month, while the meetings follow without agreement. We therefore believe that it is essential to hear them in the coming days. What is the status of these long-term discussions? In our view, it is the role of our parliamentary committee to hear them, given the situation. Moreover, I had already proposed – of course, more informally – to include them in the discussion of the general policy note, fifteen days ago. If we cannot put it in this order of business, when can we do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u5	Mrs. Taquin, you mention a number of things. I know of one request from the MR Group, but that is the follow-up to the Terro recommendations. That's what I got. As far as your second request is concerned, in connection with the negotiations between the Liberty Cabinet and the police unions, I have no idea of that. I have to tell you that we can never organise an arrangement of work for oral questions. You don't have to worry. I will ask the secretariat to convene another committee for internal affairs to deal with the various requests. In addition to MR, other groups have also submitted requests, following yesterday's hearing. It concerns the groups of N-VA, PS, Ecolo-Green and Flemish Interest. So we're going to have a very busy week after Christmas. Of course, we can't do that right now. That is not the case with oral questions. This is not a regular committee meeting to which all Members are invited, but a committee where only the questioners are invited. I asked the committee secretariat to set a date for next week, with the only item on the agenda, so that your requests and those of the other groups could also be dealt with. I hope it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u6	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I will also be brief. We all know what this is about, namely the designation of Mr al-Raisi, who was not elected as the new President of Interpol by just under 70% of the votes. Belgium was one of the 195 countries that could vote. My question is very simple. How did Belgium vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Interpol Executive Committee elections took place at Interpol's annual General Assembly. Each of the 195 Member States may vote equally in one vote. The validity of the applications shall be verified by a selection committee prior to the vote. However, the vote for the election of the members of the Executive Committee shall be secret. The election of the Chairman of the Executive Committee shall require a two-thirds majority of the members present, provided that, after two ballots, there is no two-thirds majority, a simple majority will suffice. The latter scenario took place at the General Assembly in Istanbul in November 2021. I can confirm that the Belgian delegation at least took into account the integrity of the two candidates between whom a choice had to be made when voting. I would also like to stress that political neutrality is a fundamental value for Interpol as an international police organization. Respect for Article 3 of the Statute – which states that any activity or intervention in matters or cases of a political, military, religious or racial nature is strictly prohibited within the organisation – is therefore of paramount importance in order to continue to function optimally as a world-wide police organization. It should be noted that the members of the Executive Committee have no operational competence. Interpol has taken additional initiatives to adjust and adapt the rules on the election and functioning of its governance bodies. New ethical standards for Executive Committee members were approved at the last General Assembly and new members of the Executive Committee will be required to sign a code of conduct. This should enhance the transparency, clarity and integrity of the functioning of the Executive Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, although it was not an answer. I have to say that we cannot know how Belgium voted. The least we can say is that there is a symbolic problem with the appointment of the man, because a number of countries have complained against him. Then I find it strange for an organization like Interpol that he is president. It is said to be a symbolic function, but that does not alter the fact that it is a strange course of action. I am surprised that we should not even know how Belgium voted, of which we are aware.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u11	Minister,
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u12	Following the unexpected and sudden departure of the President of the Council of State on 1 October 2021, announced shortly before, the first President of the Council of State took the necessary emergency measures as soon as possible. The mandate concerned was therefore declared vacant by an appeal to the candidates. It is the vacancy of the term of office of President of the Council of State of 17 September 2021. The French-speaking magistrates concerned were invited to apply, and it was therefore right that the first President of the Council of State immediately declared the term of office of French-speaking president to be vacant, applying the provisions of the co-ordinated laws actually applicable in this case. Similarly, every legal effort was made to restore, as soon as possible, by an effective appointment of a French-speaking corps chief, the linguistic parity disturbed in a totally unexpected and unforeseen manner between the four heads of bodies of the Conseil d'État. I note that the honourable Member wrongly refers to Article 74/3, § 5 of the coordinated laws on the Council of State. This provision explicitly refers to the situation which prevails when the term of office is to be filled in the year preceding the time referred to in Article 74/3, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 of the same laws, i.e. the opening of the term of office in the year preceding the expiry of each ten-year period. This refers to the ten-year period during which the four terms of office of heads of corps of the Council of State, having regard to the linguistic balance between the four heads of corps, are assigned to a specific linguistic role. This applies in particular to the ten-year period after the first appointment to the office of Chief of Staff of the current mandate holder, and this period in practice expires on 11 September 2027. The provision which the honourable member avails himself of does not therefore apply to the present situation. In the meantime, no one has applied for the office of Speaker to complete the vacant term. Similarly, given the current overload of the chambers, no President of the Chamber has wished to act as acting President until the five-year term to be opened next September will be occupied. In addition, the first President informed me by mail on 7 October of this year, in accordance with article 73/1, paragraph 3, of the coordinated laws on the Council of State, that in the circumstances mentioned above, he will assume, until further notice, the powers of Chief of Staff of the Section of Legislation. It goes without saying that this is an interim measure that will apply at the latest until the appointment of a new French-speaking president, who is expected to take place in September 2022. The first president also informed me that, in the circumstances mentioned above, his Francophone colleagues have recently agreed to this arrangement, and that he will perform the duties concerned in close consultation with his colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u13	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her full response. We'll take the time to analyze it. I take note of his desire, shared by many, to have a new Francophone president as soon as possible so that linguistic parity can be restored as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u14	Minister, according to the latest figures available from the OCAM and the Common Data Bank (CDB), 712 people have been identified as extremists, including 651 jihadists, 12 left-wing extremists, 49 right-wing extremists. Of these 49, 24 are considered "potential violent extremists". OCAM also identifies "hate propagandaists". Right-wing extremism is on the rise in Belgium. The number of people taken back into the BDC for their adherence to extreme right-wing ideology has increased from about 20 to about 50 in the last three years. These figures are very intriguing and also concern the Belgian military. The Islamist threat remains, of course, the most important. Minister, at what point do people appear in the database? By what activities are they distinguished from people with only radical thoughts? Are the persons identified in the BDC actively monitored by the responsible authorities? Are Belgian BDC data shared with neighbouring authorities, such as Germany or France and vice versa? Do you know how many Belgians are currently abroad in jihadist camps? What measures are currently in place to prevent radicalisation of the Belgian population and especially of young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u15	Madam Jadin, thank you. OCAM takes individuals from the database under one of the five statutes provided for by the Royal Decree, i.e. foreign terror fighters, homegrown terrorist fighters, potentially violent extremists, persons convicted of terrorism and propagandists of hatred, as soon as the validation criteria are met. These validation criteria are closely linked to the description of the five statutes, as explained in the royal decree and the declaration to the King. Each status has its own validation criteria. OCAM only includes individuals for whom there is sufficient information and information that they meet these criteria. As a general rule, they are distinguished by their actions and/or their harmful intentions. For people under FTF status, for example, they have joined or are in the process of joining a terrorist group or they have failed to join that terrorist group or they are back after staying with such a group. All these statutes are the result of an individual's act. For a homegrown terrorist fighter, there is information, information that he or she has taken steps to commit a violent act. For a potentially violent extremist who has not yet undertaken these specific acts, there are serious indications that he or she intends to do so. For a propagandist of hatred, the act is found in the observation that the individual wants to radicalize others for an extremist ideology. All individuals included under this status in the database are monitored as part of the TER strategy (Extremism and Terrorism Strategy) in order to reduce the risk from these individuals. This strategy, adopted in September 2021, deals with the fight against terrorism, extremism, including the radicalisation process, and aims to tackle all forms of extremism, also online. This implies that there is a multidisciplinary follow-up by all the services involved in this plan. This follow-up is always tailor-made and it reconciles the approach of the security services with that of the socio-preventive world. The idea is that on the basis of the assessment that is done, they work together and that appropriate action is taken on a case-by-case basis to reduce risks. Of course, this strategy can only work if all levels of power within their competence are involved in its implementation. As part of the TER strategy that follows the R plan, the CSILR are platforms that, at the local level, allow attention to worrying cases of radicalisation at an early stage. When a service, association or other organization is concerned about the evolution of a person, he or she can use that network and see what is the appropriate measure to frame it. Primary prevention certainly has a role to play, particularly through education. But you must ask my colleagues in the Communities about this. For the time being, 35 FTFs linked to Belgium are in jail or camps in Syria and Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u16	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for answering almost all of my questions. I also wondered how the information was exchanged. My colleagues in the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels federation will obviously also be asking about the prevention aspect. I'll still have the opportunity to reread all your answers with rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u17	Madam Secretary, the police are using more drones these days, because they would work safer, faster and more efficiently, which I understand. I only have questions about the use of Chinese drones, not only in terms of quality but also in terms of reliability and the risks to information security. In an earlier question, I have already expressed that concern. The answer has led to a few follow-up questions. Apparently, of the 114 registered state drones, there are 85 Chinese-made aircraft, which is 75%. The fleet of drones used by the federal police has no less than 19 Chinese-made aircraft. At present, you believe that the risks associated with this are being assessed within the federal police and there is no need to completely decommission the devices. You do confirm that certain sensitive orders may no longer be carried out with Chinese drones. This indicates that you yourself have doubts about the use of these Chinese devices. What specific technical measures will be taken in the very short term to reduce these risks? What do you mean by very short term? Why is five extra drones provided with Chinese make despite the risks involved? Are the Chinese drones that are no longer allowed to perform certain sensitive commands automatically replaced by other drones? If so, within what time limit? When will the evaluation end to see if it is possible to replace the Chinese drones with equivalent drones of, for example, European make? When do you expect the results? When will drone usage policy be completed? When would this be applied in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u18	Mr Metsu, I will answer you on the basis of the information I have at my disposal today. I can indeed confirm that measures have been taken. These measures prevent both the drones and their remote control from transmitting data via a mobile Internet connection. In addition, the measures taken protect the networks with which the same devices are connected. These measures have been adopted on the basis of the recommendations of several intelligence services. Given its sensitivity, I do not think it is appropriate to go into further technical detail. There are also operational procedures that ensure additional security, such as the prohibition to use the cloud services provided by the manufacturer. It is therefore not surprising that they are still being used for some activities and not for others, because of course we want to avoid as many security risks as possible. The above mentioned orders of photogrammetry have no geopolitical sensitivity or collection of personal data. The purchase of the devices on the basis of the available information is justified by their excellent quality in flight stability, accuracy in positioning and recording. The use of the devices is justified on the basis of the information for the purposes of the assignment of photogrammetry of road accidents for which they are intended. The European drone market is, of course, constantly being monitored in order to know solutions other than those offered by the Chinese drone systems. That makes sense, too. It is important to clarify that the choice of a device is the result of a multi-criteria analysis, where data security is of course also an important factor. Other parameters are also taken into account, such as the low level of physical risks for people on the ground, air traffic, contract conditions and operational needs. The evaluation to which you refer, which related to the photogrammetry drones, addressed in your second question, is now complete. On the basis of that evaluation, the federal police did not find a European alternative with the same centimetric positioning capacity. That precision capacity is fundamental to the orders of photogrammetry in which the drones will be deployed. As I said, we will continue to monitor the European market to see if we can find equivalent or better models. The police use policy of drones will be finalized in 2022. In any case, it will take the form of a dynamic document, which will be regularly reviewed in the light of technological developments as well as the tasks for which drones are deployed. The practical application of this guidance will follow the publication immediately, with a possible transitional period for some principles if circumstances so require.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u19	Madam Secretary, I have received an effective answer to all the questions. I have two comments to make. Firstly, you repeat that certain sensitive orders may no longer be carried out with Chinese drones. You are now completing in your reply that this has been determined to avoid safety risks. That is, of course, crazy, as we invest in such expensive and necessary devices. After all, they are just there to ensure our safety. That's contradictory. So you're questioning the calibration or use of those drones. However, we are still putting them into our safety spectrum. Secondly, I also note that the federal police have done their homework and have not yet found a similar or equivalent European alternative. I will do further research on this. Thank you, however, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u20	Madam Minister, for several weeks now, people who want to apply for asylum have been standing on the Klein Kastiltje. Because the reception network is saturated, they not only have to sit in long rows on the street, but also often spend the night there. On 2 December there was an incident in which the police acted against people who there with sails and cardboard sheltered themselves from rain and wind. They've been taken away from them. Madam Secretary, how could this happen? Why was the police there? Why did they decide to take the shelter from those people? Those people have nowhere to go, we leave them out on the street. I assume that you, along with me, find it very regrettable that this has happened. Even today, there are still people who cannot be taken care of. I saw the police there again today. What is the purpose of the presence of the police? Who gives those orders? Why was it decided to take the shelter?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u21	Mrs Platteau, this is primarily a question for the mayor of the capital, but I will answer you on the basis of the information I have at my disposal. It is true that in the Brussels-Capital-Elsene police area, it was noted that asylum seekers started to draw up a camp. It goes without saying that this leads to appalling conditions which, despite the distressing situation of such a meeting, could attract even more asylum seekers. As a result, the already precarious sanitary conditions, including the absence of sanitary facilities, would deteriorate. In addition, such an improvised camp would compromise the sanitary safety of the neighborhood residents. That is why it was decided to break down the camp before enlargement could take place. The intervention took place in peace and could even count on the understanding of some asylum seekers. The administrative authority under whose responsibility the local police is acting was informed of this intervention in accordance with Article 5, 2 of the WPA. There is, of course, a constant reminder of the existing reception facilities. I can assure you that Mr Mahdi will do everything in his power to provide additional places as soon as possible, in cooperation with all partners and stakeholders. Fedasil also works closely with all partners. Staff reinforcement at Fedasil is also being used in order to properly frame the new reception sites. For example, additional reception centres will be opened in the coming period and existing reception centres will also examine the possibility of increasing current capacity, including in Evere.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I hope, together with you, that the shelters can be found as soon as possible. In the meantime, emergency care has been provided. I hope that's enough so that people there don't start making camps to protect themselves. It is cynical to say that there is a desire to prevent the creation of camps when there is no provision for shelter. We must then provide shelter, otherwise we cannot blame those people for trying to protect themselves if they have to spend the night there. I thank you for the answer, but I hope that all the authorities will give it the necessary urgency to ensure that such situations do not occur anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u23	I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u24	Mr Houtmeyers, the three main principles of the reform are well known: firstly, intervention on the basis of the principles of the fastest, adequate aid, secondly, equal protection for an equivalent contribution, third, scaling up. The aid areas have been given a great deal of autonomy and the federal government has just outlined the framework within which they have to work. For example, a multi-annual policy plan and an operational organisational plan should be drawn up on the basis of a qualitative risk analysis. It is up to the zoning council to establish an appropriate level of service and protection on the basis of risk analysis. Then the necessary actions and measures must be taken in order to guarantee the level set. Where there is a discrepancy between the desired level of service and actual staffing, the relief zones should provide additional people and/or resources to provide an operational response to the risks present in the territory. The translation takes place in principle on the basis of the staff plan. Since the personnel plan of the Flemish-Brabant-East zone was still updated in 2018, it can be assumed that the zonal management and the zonal manager have also integrated the conclusions of the 2017 risk analysis into the staff plan adjustment. The next inspection by my services, which is expected to take place at the beginning of 2022, will also be checked. I have made a great effort to structurally broaden the budgets of the aid areas by increasing the federal amounts. They will also continue to grow in the years to come. Of course, it is up to the aid areas themselves to decide on the use of the budgets.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the answer. Anyway, the problem is not solved at the moment. In the meantime, time is lost. They'll only have a fire and have to wait another 10 to 15 minutes. It's causing human dramas. We can only hope that there will be a solution and work on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u26	Mr Boukili does not seem to be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u27	Madam Minister, after the negotiating committee on 7 December, the members of the Common Trade Union Front decided that you should return to the core. The trade unions did not yet agree with the new proposal and made a lot of comments. Among other things, the amounts proposed were too low, certain betting scales were unfairly treated more favourably than others and certain levels of CALog staff were not sufficiently included or not included in these negotiations. Finally, there is no proposal for a protocol agreement on the famous NAVAP scheme. A new meeting took place yesterday. Did you give budgetary guarantees at yesterday's meeting, Tuesday 14 December 2021? If so, which one? If there is budgetary margin now, why have you waited so long? Is this enough for the trade unions? How will you try to build guarantees on the proposed budgetary phasing-out? Following the launch of negotiations at the beginning of December, the trade unions were considering taking action again. Have you been informed of this and how do you try to calm down if there are any further actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u28	My question is entirely in line with what Mrs Goethals has just outlined. Negotiations with the police unions have been going on for a very long time now, over a year. They are now accelerating, but actually this started a year ago with a number of promises from this government that came back. The police unions consider this to be a broken word. It was clear it wouldn't end well. I am pleased that new negotiations are apparently being launched with small points of light. The demands of the police unions, also listed by Mrs Goethals, are clear and clear. Hard guarantees should be provided for the protocol on the NAVAP regime. As far as wage demands are concerned, the police unions consider that current wages are too low to be able to continue working. Moreover, there is also the question of the attractiveness of the policeman's or woman's status, and this includes violence against the police. Our group is very much in favour of tightening up the penalties for violence against police officers. Under four months of incapacity for work, very little is prosecuted. I know you've made a promise to be a bourgeois party, and you're gonna keep that promise. You cannot, of course, require this in all police areas, but it is necessary. A structural solution must be found for this. Minister Van Quickenborne's circular to dismiss under four months could be modified. One should prosecute from day one if a police officer becomes the victim of violence with disability as a result. I would like to hear a clear answer on all these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u29	Indeed, a few months ago, in February, we started negotiations with the trade unions. They are entirely in line with the government's ambition to increase the attractiveness of the police force and the decision of this government to invest in our security professions. Mr Depoorter, you say that these negotiations have been going on for a long time, but the police people tell me that there has been no structural increase in the last 20 years. I am the prime minister negotiating with them on this substantial wage increase. It is not obvious, of course, to make up for what predecessors have not done in the short term. Nor will it surprise you that negotiations are sometimes difficult. However, I am confident that we can move forward. We have had a number of discussions in which I myself have also participated. Of course, wage increases must also be part of the available budgets. As you know, they are not rich, given the general budgetary situation, not only of the federal government but also of the decentralised authorities, including the local authorities, which are also an important actor. Of course, the order of magnitude of the envelope to make progress remains a discussion point. I think we had a very frank but constructive discussion yesterday. We're going one step at a time, hopefully, in the right direction. It goes without saying that this dossier will also be discussed within the government, with all its partners, and will be discussed in the coming weeks. I have informed the police unions of my conviction that we should speak in particular at the table and that the conduct of actions in the street is not compatible with the conduct of constructive talks. So we have to negotiate at the table, which will help us the most. Mr Depoostere, you also referred to the penalties in the event of violence against policemen and to the letter of conversion. These matters are primarily of interest to the Minister of Justice. I suggest you put those questions to him as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u30	Madam Secretary, you have not answered my questions. You did not answer the question of whether or not a new budgetary guarantee was given yesterday, and if not, what you are going to do to get it all right. As you yourself pointed out, one of the key points of your policy paper is to strive to make police work an attractive profession. There is an employment branding package, the roll-out of recruitment campaigns, the removal of the necessary IT resources. In itself beautiful, but we all know that the negotiations with the trade unions have not always been as they should have been and that the results have been partly unfulfilled to date. Their demands concern not only an increase in capacity, but, above all, a correct wage increase for everyone. The NAVAP scheme is also a difficult issue. Cases are being rolled out today, but we know that a nice new website or a nice campaign is not going to help the police on the ground. They want butter with the fish. I think it will be extremely difficult to do new recruitments without a wage increase. They must feel respected, even in the difficult circumstances in which they work today. They're not gonna do that for a hunger wage, and I understand them. My question is, what do you expect from the police? I have the feeling that we expect a great deal from them, but they only get a few crumbs instead. In your National Security Plan, as we were allowed to read in the press, you no longer want to include tax control as a core task. For this, you have been flagged back by your own government partners. Under the heading 'combating this tax fraud', the budget is worth 1 billion in additional revenue. I think that police checks will have to be partly responsible for this, so I wonder if you had misjudged that somewhat. We are told that one of the police actions, if any, would mean that tonight's football match in Liège could not continue. How will you deal with that? I think there is still a great deal of work to be done for you, and I fear you have realised the seriousness of the matter far too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u31	Madam Minister, after 20 years of standstill, as you rightly say, in the salary demands of police officers, it seems to me that sooner or later they are on the streets. I do not think it will help to put pressure on trade unions not to go on the streets unless they are presented with concrete proposals. You have indeed made a proposal at the beginning of this year, which was quite inadequate, and you are now trying to remove the negotiations. I sincerely wish you every success in that. I have been informed that negotiations are again taking place with the police unions on Monday. I hope that they will indeed get butter on the fish. No matter how you turn it, the NAVAP scheme is an important element for the police. They demand firm guarantees that this arrangement will not disappear. That is why I have not heard any specific statements or commitments from you today. As far as the violence against police officers are concerned, I will, of course, have your colleague Vincent Van Quickenborne ask the same questions, but I would have hoped that it would have ended by opening up umbrellas and shifting responsibility to others. The government is one and indivisible, I have always been told, and I hope that this is also the case here. Finally, the demands for wages must not be dismissed, as Mrs Goethal has quite rightly outlined. We were to expect that these demands, after 20 years without progress, would now be taken seriously. I hope, above all, that the CALog staff will also be involved and that no category will be forgotten, because I understand that the salami technique is being applied: some categories of policemen give something, others do not. I wish you every success in the forthcoming negotiations so that we can have a quiet Christmas period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u32	Madam Minister, my question concerns the new strategy of the OCAD against terrorism and extremism, the Strategy TER, which replaces the Radicalism Action Plan. I read that the aim of this new strategy is to reduce terrorism and extremism as much as possible. The positive thing about the new strategy is that it has evolved from a mainly repressive to a more multidisciplinary approach. Madam Secretary, extremism is a major problem in our society. All forms of extremism inciting violence are a threat to our democratic rule of law, whether religious or right-wing extremist. The new strategy rightly focuses on the process of radicalisation and prevention. The preventive approach includes a wide range of measures aimed at society as a whole, certain target groups and the individual. As far as the latter is concerned, the OCAD note refers to social reintegration through disengagement of radicalised individuals. I have a number of questions about that. Can you explain exactly what we should mean by "disengagement"? To what extent does this differ from other or previous deradicalisation programmes? Do you have a view on whether we can already learn lessons from the previous Plan R regarding the effective approach to deradicalisation of radicalised individuals? Are there interesting examples from abroad of disengagement programmes where good results have been achieved? Can you also tell us what the disengagement programmes will look like in concrete terms? Which actors will you involve? Will you cooperate with certain non-profit organisations that have expertise in this area? How will the results of disengagement programmes be monitored? Have there already been disengagement programs launched in Belgium? How many individuals were involved? Do you have any results?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u33	Disengagement concerns the numerical component and concerns the withdrawal or reduction and neutralization of a particular undesirable act. It is mainly about the use of force. Deradicalisation refers to the psychological disengagement, which involves a change in the person's frame of mind in relation to his ideological and personal beliefs. In principle, this involves a fundamental change in the individual's thinking. Deradicalisation is a term that in principle should not be used in general, because it makes it appear that there is a one-size-fits-all approach, where an extremist or terrorist can step in and get out normalized. That is certainly not the case in a generic way. The Strategic Note Extremism and Terrorism build on the existing structure of the Plan R. As regards disengagement, it is crucial that, within the structure of the LIVC-R, where deemed necessary by the partners around the table, a tailor-made guidance pathway is set up, with the aim of re-integration and re-connection of the person concerned with society. This can only be done by sharing and exchanging information about the person in the first place between all the different partners of the LIVC-R, social and welfare organisations, local police and local government. Afterwards, they, each from their own expertise and competence, build a tailor-made multidisciplinary trajectory. There are many local initiatives that work specifically on disengagement today, but more often they are already existing organisations that were started in principle from a different angle but have been focusing on this phenomenon for years. On the Flemish side, a number of consultants were radicalised to the Centre for General Welfare for the follow-up during the detention. In our view, such initiatives can only succeed if they are coordinated with other services and organisations within the LIVC-R. This alignment needs to be improved and not one specific disengagement program will be able to be developed one-size-fits-all. The basis for a good disengagement process lies with the LIVC-R. From there, a multidisciplinary guidance course can be developed tailor-made by the various participants. Countries such as Germany, Norway and Denmark have already had many positive experiences with such disengagement programmes. The potential participants in the LIVC-R are the mayor or his representative, the information officer of the local police, psychosocial services, school communities, OCMW's, CAW's, justice houses, associations, the VDAB, the youth sector, social consultants of the youth court and counsellors radicalising the prisons. At the level of the LIVC-R, there is also continuous cooperation with local non-profit organisations. The Regions and Communities have an important sensitising role here. Given the large number of organisations and local initiatives involved, it is not possible to put a concrete figure on it. All persons in the GGB are followed up by the Local Task Forces and part of them by the LIVC-Rs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is very interesting to get that explanation and to hear exactly what is the difference between disengagement, which is more behavior-oriented, and radicalisation, which is more focused on the psychological-cognitive aspect. It is indeed a complex issue in which many actors need to be involved. In any case, this preventive approach is useful and valuable and has an eye for reintegration. I hope that a lot of expertise can be developed in the field and that the knowledge can be shared as much as possible between the LIVC-Rs. I also hope that we can find out what good practices exist abroad. So I will certainly follow this up and ask questions about it in the future. Good luck with the approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u35	Madam Minister, on 21 November and 5 December there were protests against the corona measures in Brussels. They started under the guise of protesting for freedom and ended up with violence, including against the police. The organisers claimed that the protest was apolitical, but we can see that there are links between the organisation and the people of the far right. Also striking was the presence of firefighters in uniform at the demonstration on 5 December. How many protesters were arrested in response to those protests? What are the profiles of the protesters who were arrested? The police had distributed photos to track them down, which led to identification. Why did firefighters take part in the demonstration? Do you find their presence disturbing? Are there any links with right-wing extremist groups? Is that what an analysis was made of? If so, what are the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u36	Madam Minister, two protests have already taken place in the streets of Brussels to charge the corona measures, and two demonstrations have led to riots and destruction. In a recent report, the OCAD warns that resistance to the corona measures has increased polarisation in certain groups, leading to more hate speech and threats. That's disturbing, isn't it? The OCAD report also states that a number of right-wing extremist groups have tried to channel and instrumentalise the demonstration of 21 November. So we can speak of a worrying evolution. The OCAD states that the displeasure of the demonstrators is largely fed by disinformation, fake news and conspiracy theories circulating on social media. Hate messages and threats to policy-makers, media and virologists are increasing as a result of growing polarisation, and it is even pointed out that the risk of a violent incident is increasing. Furthermore, the OCAD warns that in the run-up to a new corona wave, resistance could be re-emerging. Judging by what's coming towards us, among other things through the variants, we have to take that message very seriously. Does the report of the OCAD give rise to additional security measures, in particular in the context of any subsequent protest marches? Does the problem give rise to succession in the light of the Strategic Note Extremism and Terrorism? If so, which indicators of the Strategy TER are involved? Can you explain what initiatives you have already taken and will take to prevent the spread of disinformation, fake news and conspiracy theories? How does the government prepare for any new reaction of resistance that might arise in a subsequent corona wave?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u37	Mr Vandenput is sorry. He's stuck on another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u38	The OCAD calls the demonstration against the corona measures in Brussels a few weeks ago striking. I quote: "Organisations of various signatures brought together the forces in their criticism of corona policy and constitute a counter-movement that succeeds in forcing an increasingly prominent place within public space." According to the OCAD, the protest leads to threats and hate messages, which creates a heated and polarized climate. Hate speech towards policy-makers, media and virologists seems to be becoming more and more socially accepted. A possible mandatory vaccination, like the corona pass in the past, could further fuel the protests," the report says. When were you in possession of the report and the information contained in it? In what way and by whom have you been informed? Were the federal and/or Brussels police informed in advance and, if so, when? In the annual report 2020 of State Security, the Service warns about left-wing extremism. By joining protest marches, they want to reach the critical mass needed to unleash street riots. By infiltrating legitimate demonstrations, they often discredit organisers and participants through the use of force. This is how they de facto often run out legitimate protests." Have police forces during the anticorona measure demonstration been able to identify persons as left-wing extremists, acting with modus operandi as described? Did the OCAD in their report also warn about activities of left-wing extremists? The OCAD also states: "Thus many think that the measures would purposely move us towards an authoritarian state. It goes without saying that such ideas can become problematic, as they undermine public confidence." What exactly is described as problematic? Is it problematic, for example, to refuse vaccination? Is it problematic to act in a democratic, legitimate way against a coronapas?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u39	For the demonstrations of 21 November and 5 December, the procedure laid down was followed by the local authorities. For each order department there is an operational risk analysis. On the basis of the essential elements of information, the police dispositive is composed. At the demonstration on 21 November, 45 people were arrested. On December 5, 23 people were arrested. They're between 16 and 52 years old, mostly men, from all over the country. On 21 November, 6 policemen were unable to work and on 5 December, there were 5. In both demonstrations, several police officers suffered minor injuries which did not result in incapacity for work. A dozen vehicles were damaged, mainly with glass damage. The firefighters present argued in their own name and did not represent their corps. At the demonstration on 21 November several associations were involved in the organisation of the event. Some actors in these associations are indeed considered to be members of the right-wing extremist sphere of influence. However, many of the organisations that joined together for Freedom have nothing to do with right-wing extremistism or the extreme right. My services have not been specifically aware of the structured and organised participation of left extremists in the demonstration. Of course, that does not alter the fact that there may have been left-wing extremist individuals present on those protests. Both left and right extremist groups participated in the manifestation on 5 December. There is currently no indication of links between the organisation and right-wing extremist groups. I have, of course, taken note of the OCAD report on the threats in the corona pandemic. The note of the OCAD was sent to the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security on 3 December in the late afternoon. The note was also sent to all partners of the Strategy Extremism and Terrorism at the same time. The report was not intended for public access. In the meantime, the OCAD published an article on its website based on the note and containing the main elements. For the Brussels Police Zone Capital city of Ixelles, the report contains no new information that could be useful for the management of the demonstrations I have just spoken about. Left and right extremes are followed in the framework of the Strategic Note Extremism and Terrorism. Both the federal and regional and local levels are involved in the follow-up to the problem. In addition, under the Strategy TER, there is also a working group on strategic communication, which advises against social radicalisation and polarisation. In October 2019, under the mandate of the CCIV, a national platform focused on hybrid threats was established. The aim of this platform is to work together in a multidisciplinary and inter-departmental way to combat hybrid threats. Disinformation is an important focus, with the ADIV taking the lead. For more information on the task force, please refer to the Minister of Defence. Specifically in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, the National Crisis Centre, in cooperation with the various Belgian intelligence and security services, organised a monitoring of the information in support of the Federal Infocel communication strategy. The infocel is responsible for coordination and communication to the public and to the press during the federal phase. A communication consultation with all partners involved in the communication on vaccination shall take place on a weekly basis under the guidance of the Coronac Commissioner. The various Länder, the FPS Public Health, the Coronac Commissariat, and the National Crisis Centre take part in these consultations. During this consultation, attention will also be paid to the disinformation aspect. At regular intervals there is input from academic experts for this subject. It is important to be able to build on work already done. The experiences of this intensive interdepartmental cooperation in this specific context will be reflected both in the Task Force Information Operations and in the StratCom Working Group on the Strategy TER, in order to work on the topic in a structural way with the various partners. Mr Depoostere, the expression of verbal, written and peaceful criticism by demonstrators is absolutely no reason for individual succession by the security services. Individual succession occurs only in cases where there are indications of a problematic radicalisation process and/or extremism, which is also very well defined in the Strategy TER and which is subject to strict legal criteria. Hate speech is generally a message that triggers hatred, violence, or discrimination, in the concrete context mostly towards politicians, scientists, and/or the media. The fact is that the large amount of such hate messages, like threats of violence, contribute to a heated and polarized climate. As a result, hate speech towards policy-makers, the media and the virologists seems increasingly socially accepted. Hate speech becomes problematic in cases where it involves physically or psychologically intimidating and threatening those involved or inciting violence against those involved to achieve ideological objectives, whether online or not. If such behaviour occurs structurally, it may be that specific follow-up in the structures of the Strategy TER is necessary. For this purpose, the common databases include the status of hate propaganda and possibly that of potentially violent extremist, if hate speech is linked to a clear intention to commit ideologically inspired violence. Freedom of expression in our country is one of the most fundamental values of our democracy. Repressive or restrictive measures are only possible in the case of crimes which are the most relevant are the so-called 19 grounds of discrimination or protected criteria listed in the anti-racism legislation and anti-discrimination legislation, or in the case of hate speech involving a threat of violence or falling under a form of ringing. However, the focus in the OCAD memo is not so much on the criminal nature of hate speech, but on the toxic, toxic climate that it can create.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u40	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your answer clearly shows that you are taking the matter very seriously. It is good that the OCAD continues to closely monitor the phenomenon. I also share your analysis of the polarisation in society and the threat it may pose. You also refer to the problem of fake news and disinformation, which can reduce public confidence. That is why we must remain vigilant. I am pleased that you take hate speech seriously as a threat to public space security. There is physical safety, but also psychological safety, space for people. I'm thinking about the threats from experts. We as a society must put a stop to this and make it clear that there are limits to how we deal with each other. I am confident that the OCAD and other security services will monitor the issue closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u41	Thank you for your reply, Minister, which was enlightening to me. I'll give you a wake-up call anyway. After all, I still see things go wrong on New Year's Eve when the catering industry has to close at 11 p.m. It is important that we take decisions to protect everyone's health and that we all support it. But we must also assess and prepare ourselves for the possible consequences. I'm worried about that. Maybe on New Year's Eve or later in smaller locations there are also protests, possibly excited by extremes and stimulated by social media. There is a need for some vigilance, but I have faith in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u42	I should like to comment on Mr Demon's last words. Firstly, the riots on New Year's Eve in Brussels, of which I saw images on television, were mostly about immigrant rioters. Secondly, the demonstrations against the corona measures, where more than 30,000 were present the first time, consisted of immigrants, natives, Walen and Flemings, and, if I may say so, Madam Minister, from both left and right-wing participants. So, Mrs Platteau, I hope that the fake news, which you always like to talk about, will stop now and that it will not be attempted to portray people who disagree with government decisions as right-wing extremists. That is absolutely not the case. Thirdly, the fundamental question is perhaps what polarisation is. Does that mean that, if one does not agree with a government decision, one cannot say that anymore because otherwise one polarizes? This is all very worrying, as is the fact that a State Security Service, such as the OCAD, is required to write reports on this matter, which do not even have the intention, as the Minister says, of condemning anything criminal. No, we simply want to point out in a very subjective terminology a toxic and toxic environment. Those are very punitive words. It simply indicates that the government, here in the ivory towers of Brussels, is losing touch with what lives among the population. Madam Secretary, my party is more on the side of freedom of expression. I am indeed making one big exception. Of course, we cannot call for violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u43	Question No 55023181C by Mr Ducrame is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u44	Colleagues, I'm surprised no one picked up this story. In the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws of 7 December the following newspaper title can be found: "Policy goes far to reclaim striking hospital staff: 'Colleague called fifteen times at night, just like the Gestapo'." In French-speaking Belgium there was a strike in the healthcare sector on Monday 7 December. Some executives therefore requested their staff as a precaution. Apparently, that's why the police are being called in. Madam Secretary, I understand that, especially in times of a pandemic crisis, a minimum number of people in hospitals is required. I'm sure everyone will agree on that. But the fact that executives are trying to get staff into the workplace through the police raises serious questions. Did you know that police have been called in to a nurse at the CHC in Liège and that civil agents were waiting for her at home? Does the Minister recognise that this form of redress is intimidating to those involved? Do you consider this to be an appropriate method and is this a central task for the police? Do you think it's the police's job to make claims? On what legal basis does this claim take place? Isn't it more human to let a bailiff make claims? How often and at the request of which administrative authorities have these claims taken place since the start of this crisis? In which provinces has care staff already been recruited by the governor and how many employees have been recruited?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u45	Mr Depoostere, at least your questions relate to a specific one-off case. We've contacted the police area of Liège, where no incident would have been registered. The instructions and appeals sent by the provincial governor to certain staff of private care establishments in the context of a strike in the care sector in the Liège region, supported, according to our information, the law of 19 August 1948 on the performance of general interest in peacetime, and at the Royal Decree of 10 September 2010, declaring the decision to be generally binding on 12 July 2010 in the Joint Committee for Health Establishments and Services, in implementation of the Law of 19 August 1948. The instructions and calls that a mayor sent to certain staff of public care establishments in the context of a strike in the care sector mentioned Articles 133 and 135 of the new municipal law as a legal basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u46	Madam Secretary, I am surprised that laws of 1948, from previous centuries, have to be used to employ care workers. I don't think this is going to happen anymore. The former governor, Mr Jan Briers, has just confirmed to me that this is still being applied a great deal. All the more reason, Madam Minister, to remedy this in Parliament. After all, that is our job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u47	Madam Secretary, we are now five months after the facts. The subject is close to many people, including myself. I think that we are not speaking enough about this in this House. We still have a federal support cell on the ground, so the federal government still has something to say about that. I have a number of questions about the current situation in that region. What are the major problems that still exist there? Which major organisations are still on the ground? We know the D.O.D. pulled out, but who's still out there? You rightly extended the mandate of the federal support cell until mid-February, but what specific tasks is it still carrying out, what are the main priorities? We sometimes read something in the press about the precarious situation of a lot of people. However, I still find it unbelievable that we cannot find a solution to this problem. I know that the local authorities and the province are working on it, but it remains unacceptable that we leave people literally in the cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u48	During the presentation of your policy paper, you spoke again about the learning committee, which you had announced quite soon after the facts, at the end of July or early August. You said that the tender was published on 12 November. In the meantime, we're a month late. How's the tender coming? Is that a market? When will the work really start, how will it go, when will you expect results and who will be involved? So much for my questions on this, in my view, still very urgent and problematic issue in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Ingels, the Walloon Region can undoubtedly give a more complete picture of the current situation in the disaster area. I do not want to get rid of the issue, but they are, of course, closer to the areas of competence where there are still a lot of outstanding questions. It seems obvious to me that the disaster area still faces problems. Its size was so large that it will take a long time to recover everything. Reconstruction will take many months to complete. However, we must do everything in our power to do so, and we must do everything in our power to provide as much support as possible from the federal level in recent months. As you said, the federal support cell tracks the progress of the works. In particular, it shall provide support for basic safety and work tasks that may include civil protection. As far as utilities are concerned, I have been informed that electricity and water are everywhere. The gas network is almost completely restored. About 400 families are still experiencing problems. For other families, the counters have not yet been reactivated for a variety of reasons. The gas connections have been built up to the houses, but the final connection in the house still has to be done. Several municipalities have concluded public contracts with certification companies to facilitate and accelerate the entry into service of these gas meters. In many cases, however, the installation or commissioning depends on the progress of the other work in the home, which often results in a considerable delay. This installation must also be carried out correctly in the sequence of operations. Great efforts have been made on housing. Housing is a competence of the Walloon Region. We do not know exactly how many citizens live in precarious conditions today. We do know that housing consultants and social workers help people who ask for it. The federal support cell (CAF) will work with the municipalities to better know which people should live in precarious conditions in this winter and to help them better. Because of the still great needs on the ground, we decided to extend that support cell until mid-February. We have also understood, and we have had extensive consultations on this with all the regional and local actors involved, that the support offered is appreciated. Depending on the needs identified, different services can provide assistance. Those services are there, there is coordination and contact can be done very efficiently due to the unique character of the CAF. As a result, rapid follow-up is possible, especially in order to anticipate any new risks. Let us hope that we will be spared from that. However, new emergencies could occur and then the federal support cell is quickly engaged to coordinate. In any case, during the winter, particular attention will be paid to the weakened banks of the watercourses, any mobility problems arising from the restoration of road infrastructure, damaged buildings or, in general, the acute vulnerability of flood situations. In addition, the CAF has helped its partners to implement the action plans which often relate to regional competences: housing, waterways, mental health, social assistance. Wherever possible, the CAF has helped to provide assistance to regional partners with its resources, people and opportunities. As regards communication with local authorities, regular meetings are held with the mayors of category 1 municipalities. According to the Walloon Region, these are the most affected municipalities. In addition, specific meetings are organised to address specific risks. This is happening mainly with the mayors of the municipalities along the Vesder and Hoegne. The services of the governors and the emergency services are the main relays of information between the local authorities and the federal support cell. Finally, it has also been asked to reflect on and start developing possibilities for managing the so-called post-crisis period, with particular attention to the relations between the Regions and the federal government. The recent experience of the federal support cell as a link can be very useful here. That is also the feedback we heard from a number of partners in the field. Of course, we will have to carry out a more in-depth analysis in order to choose the most appropriate approach. As far as the Committee on Lectures is concerned, I can refer mainly to the reply I gave during the discussions on the policy paper. We are still evaluating the offers, which we will draw up as soon as possible, so that we can start work as soon as possible. As has already been said, we will also keep Parliament informed of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u50	Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I'll be on the scene next week. The people I met there are grateful for the smallest of things. They also understand that the situation cannot be resolved in the short term. Sometimes that surprises me. I'd get angry faster. However, they have understanding and respect for the slowness of certain things. However, it remains poignant to see people sitting with three gloves and six scarves, among the fungi on the walls. I continue to find it bewildering that such a thing happens in our society, with which I certainly do not cast a stone to anyone who does his utmost on the ground. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u51	Mr Vandenput is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u52	Madam President, Minister, on January 1st, firefighters, professionals, volunteers or trainees will be suspended from their duties if they are not vaccinated. Unless they have a test or recovery certificate, they will no longer have the right to practise their profession, whereas their work is so essential and they are already too few. In the circular you send to the presidents of the emergency zones, you still expect the emergency zone to look for a suitable post for the officer who does not meet the conditions of vaccination or certificate. Minister, what is the legal basis for this circular that you sent to the emergency areas? Where did it come from? What is the law of the XX to which you refer? I don't know this law. I wonder what procedure you put in place in this case. If there is no suitable work place, you indicate that the ambulanceman will then be suspended and will receive only 65% of his salary. Minister, is that how you thank the essential workers? By excluding them and sabrating their income? I would like to have some concrete answers. When talking about suitable work, what are the suitable work stations you're talking about? How do you position yourself against the fact that you reduce the salaries of firefighters and rescue workers? I would remind you that the vaccination obligation divides more than it convinces. You are aware that several thousand caregivers and paramedics have recently protested against this measure. How many suitable posts do emergency areas count? How many firefighters are at risk of being suspended by this measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u53	Mr. Boukili, as you know, the federal government approved a bill on mandatory vaccination for health care professionals against coronavirus at first reading. The bill provides that a health care professional who has not been vaccinated against coronavirus cannot continue to practise his profession. The draft is currently under consideration by the Council of State. I do not know the number of ambulances in emergency areas that are not vaccinated, but I can tell you that the rate of vaccination of staff is between 78 and 90 % in Walloon areas, about 90 % in Flemish areas and about 82 % in SIAMU. In any case, paramedics in emergency areas, whether firefighters or not, fall within the scope of this Act. It is my responsibility to implement this law that will be passed. The consequences of the suspension of the registration of the ambulance badge must be laid down in the statutes. For this purpose, a draft royal decree amending the royal decree on the administrative status of ambulance firefighters is being prepared, as well as a draft circular for emergency areas. I have not yet sent a circular to the emergency areas. The adaptation project is under negotiation with the trade unions and has yet to be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The government's intention in this regard is that the employer should first look for suitable work. It is up to the rescue areas that are the employers to execute this. For an ambulance attendant who is a firefighter, it will be easier than for an ambulance attendant who is not a firefighter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u54	Minister, I am quite familiar with the vaccination rate of paramedics and firefighters in the three regions. My question was more about the number of suitable positions. There are enough suitable positions for all unvaccinated people. That was the purpose of my question and I did not receive a clear answer on this. So we don't know how many ambulances will be suspended. I would point out that the suspension goes hand in hand with a 35% reduction in wages, which is enormous especially in a context where purchasing power is in great difficulty. How will the consequences of this vaccination obligation be managed? The fact that a vaccine obligation is reached is already a problem in itself. This means that people do not trust and that with this measure, the gap between the political world and the population is only widened. This adds an extra step to the level of mistrust of the population and I find this counterproductive approach. Beyond that, in relation to the consequences, I still have no answer about the number of posts adapted to meet this directive. What of those who will not benefit from it? Will they live with 65% of their salary? How are you going to deal with this situation? It was the questions that were asked to me by the field, by the firefighters who contacted me, asking me what the solution was. Will people be dragged by their feet to be vaccinated? If not, what do we do? Minister, to these questions, I still do not have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 22 November 112 emergency power stations in Antwerp and East Flanders spontaneously laid down their work. The reason was the increased workload, substantial staff shortages and obsolete equipment. Emergency power stations receive remarkably more calls than usual, and have to deal with them with fewer staff. There is also a lack of technology that they need to use. These findings do not only apply to emergency power stations. Probably there's still trouble. I certainly do not need to explain to you what a crucial task our emergency power stations are carrying out. As an ex-Governor of East Flanders, I worked closely with the people of the emergency power station and I can only confirm the importance of their work. They are the first point of contact for every citizen in need. Among other things, they send the ambulances and the fire department, but they also explain about CPR and immediate emergency assistance. So in many cases, they make the difference between life and death. At present there is a staff shortage of 20% in the emergency power station of East Flanders. Since emergency power stations will soon also have to deal with the calls of 1733, the number for non-urgent medical assistance, we must ensure that there will not be any more staff under the workload that is increasing again. We cannot accept that there are long queues for those calling 911. Now that's the case sometimes. We hear that sometimes seven people are on hold. That way precious time is lost. There is a clear signal for additional staff and investment in modern technology that meets the needs of the staff. What efforts have already been made and what will be made in the future to meet the needs of the staff? The 911 emergency power station in East Flanders is currently housed in a federal police building. It is a very old building that no longer meets the modern needs to work efficiently. What is the status of the site Groendreef in Ghent, where the power station is now located? This question is now for sure, because yesterday the punctuality actions came in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u56	I will not repeat the context because my colleague has already done so. As far as I'm concerned, the 112 should be at the top of the list of key government tasks. If this service does not work, life-threatening situations can arise. However, it is not obvious to find staff for that service, which has been the case for a long time. A great deal of efforts have also been made to strengthen this service. I don't expect miracles from you. Additional funds have already been allocated, specific recruitment campaigns have been carried out and so on. The television programme The emergency power station had the most positive effect on the attractiveness of the job. One of the pain points is that it's jobs that generate a lot of outflow, not because people don't like doing the job but because it's very incriminating. We lost those people, when they might as well have temporarily performed another function within the Home Office. However, that kind of career guidance too is an old one. The more people fall out, the more work ends up on the shoulders of those who remain. So that's a vicious circle. Another problem is that you, as Minister of the Interior, are responsible not only for the 112 but also for the 101 and 1733, and that it is sometimes difficult to recruit people into other services. The procedures for the police, the 112 and the 1733 are also different, because they are different jobs. So it's definitely not evident. How did the consultation with the trade union organizations go? Do you have plans to increase the attractiveness of the function, knowing that this is not evident? You wanted to shorten the duration of the training by carrying out digitalisation. What is the state of play in this respect? Did you consult with the Minister of Health about the calls to 1733? Are there any plans to introduce career guidance to limit outflow? The upper provincial architecture would certainly not be a miracle solution, but may be part of the solution. It's just a pity that everything always takes so long, which is no reproach to you. The decision was made in 2017 and it took a lot of effort to get the budgets for that. Centrales may be able to be manned more efficiently by solving matters in a pool across the provinces. I know that steps have already been taken, that tests have been carried out and that some emergency power stations have switched to the new system. When will all the plants operate under the new system? The 101 never wanted to participate in that system. Has that service changed its mind in the meantime? Finally, there is the 1722, which they wanted to turn into a digital window. Has that happened, and if so, has the window been evaluated yet? How many staff are employed and how many calls are treated on average?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u57	Firstly, I would like to say that the annual outflow of operators from the services 112 and 101 is approximately between 8% and 10%. That's actually a pretty normal percentage. The problem, therefore, is not so much the issue of exit but rather the need to fill in job vacancies more quickly. Proactive recruitment could be a solution to this. Each year new operators and calltakers are recruited from the services 112 and 101. This was also the case in 2021. In total, in 2021 and 2022, for all emergency power stations 112 and 101 will join 64 new candidates. In 2021, only four additional operators were recruited for the 112 emergency power station of East Flanders. This is due to the fact that in East Flanders there have once again been few candidates for the position of operator. That is why a new call was made for East Flanders on 30 November via Selor. There is also maximum publicity for this vacancy, and we hope that more candidates will apply for this selection round. It is true that East Flanders' emergency power station 112 is housed in a relatively old building, along with the 101-central federal police. Adapting work has been done in recent years, but in view of structural changes, the emergency power station 112 needs programme has been drawn up and the Buildings Control is concerned to achieve a more substantial improvement. At the moment I have no idea of the time frame within which one could realize the master plan Greendreef of the integrated police in Ghent. In any case, this global infrastructure file will be further discussed on Friday 17 December 2021 between the Government of the Buildings and the Federal Police. Mr Ingels, the talks with the trade unions took place on 25 November and took place constructively. Among other things, it was agreed to launch two new selection procedures in the very short term, in particular for emergency power stations 112 of East Flanders and Flemish Brabant. As mentioned above, this selection procedure was published on 30 November 2021. In addition, a new recruitment round will be carried out at the beginning of 2022 for all emergency power stations 112 and 101. It was also discussed that my administration will carry out a new capacity calculation for all emergency power plants 112 by 15 December 2021. This calculation should allow to verify that the established staff frameworks are still adequate. Finally, it was decided to temporarily put the further roll-out of the project 1733 on hold until the capacity calculation took place. My administration is also in consultation with the FPS Public Health. In the short term, a new consultation with the trade unions will take place. The appeal of calltaker and operator is highlighted positively in the episodes of The Emergency Centre on One. This year a number of episodes will be recorded again. We will also focus more on publicity for the vacancies. That is what is needed. This is done by working with the trade unions, but also with the operators who could be the main advocates of their own function. The duration of the training is certainly also a factor in the attractiveness of the profession. A working group is currently drawing up a canvas of the new training. The content of the training is also reviewed. Digitisation also requires that an attractive content is made available to the calltakers. As regards migration from emergency power stations to the upper provincial architecture, the aim is still to be able to migrate all emergency power stations 112 by 2022. For the time being, it is not envisaged to implement this architecture in emergency power stations 101. These power stations are still very provincial-oriented. One final question related to the digital window 1722. It is a little early to be able to fully evaluate the system, but we can see that a lot of citizens have already found their way to the digital window. Of course, we also continue to publish the number at the activation of 1722 and the window is of course permanently available via the website. The aim is to further optimise the Digital Window in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clarity. In the meantime, we have heard today that the renovation of the Green Reef and the necessary new construction will not be for the coming years. The Ghent police must also go there. This means that we will immediately have to meet the needs of the 112 emergency power station, without waiting for the renovations. What Mrs Ingels says is true. A good communication campaign can certainly help to find the necessary people. You're gonna be the hottest week in town. There you will undoubtedly get a stage, so you can use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u59	I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive answer and wish her every success because it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u60	Mr President, Minister, in June 2021 you sent the letter 'Overload in recreational areas and recreational zones' to the provincial governors, mayors and managers of recreational areas and zones, such as the provinces. The reason for this was a number of incidents in the recreational areas. Several recommendations and guidelines have been included in the letter. There is also a new evaluation within a certain period of time by the project team of the FPS Home Affairs, AD Security and Prevention. In the meantime, we're a few months away. In the meantime, what reactions have you received to this letter from the provincial governors, mayors or administrators of the domains? What further initiatives have you taken since then to further reduce the nuisance in recreational areas and areas? When, in view of the following summer season, when the nuisance is usually at its peak, is the letter reviewed and, where appropriate, re-sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u61	Mr President, Mr Briers, the circular published on 23 June 2021 stipulates that the Home Office will review that letter within 12 months of its publication. The evaluation of the letter and the consequences will therefore be more concrete in the coming months. In particular, this evaluation will be directed to the provincial governors, mayors and managers of recreational areas and zones. They will be given time to complete a survey in January and will be able to pass on suggestions or comments. Afterwards, these answers will be collected and analysed, but also evaluated. It will be examined how, on the basis of these suggestions or comments, the letter and the toolbox should be updated if necessary. The aim is to complete this whole exercise before the start of the new tourist or recreation season, so that we may be able to make adjustments before the summer of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u62	Madam Secretary, you reassure me that you will take action before this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u63	At the initiative of the FPS Home Affairs and the FPS Justice, a webinar was organised at the end of last month about the phenomenon of increasing urban violence. Many interesting speakers were invited and shared their insights and experiences about the problem. As far as your policy area and that of your fellow Minister of Justice are concerned, many interesting theories and good practices have been reviewed. It is important to examine the practices we found in France and the Netherlands and to see if they can be applied to us. It may go beyond mere reflection. I would have liked to have heard from you which ideas, proposals or practices you wish to take with you or explore further within your policy area. What ideas or practices do you consider interesting in shaping your policy? What specific issues deserve further investigation? The New Way of Protestant Working Group started work at the GPI in 2021. Can you update his work and possibly his planning for the coming months? Which actors participate in the working group? When will they come forward with their vision and approach? Finally, you indicated that the working group would also examine the possibility of setting up a centre of expertise. Could you give me a little more explanation about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u64	Indeed, we note that our neighbouring countries are often faced with the same problems of urban protests and, in terms of their approach, often also impose the same constraints. As you have asked, we are only taking the most interesting examples from abroad. Of course there is a lot more to be said about it. However, this does not necessarily mean that we are not in the process of adopting a similar approach or examining it in our country, for the sake of clarity. As far as our neighbouring countries are concerned, for France, we can refer to the operational solution in the Essonne department. The alert groups there are partner networks that are part of a closed group on a social network. Any partner can thus disseminate information he or she has observed. In this way, as we were told, fighting was avoided in certain cases. So there are, as it were, a number of patrols or contact names taking place in those social media network groups. Another interesting solution developed by the same department is the creation of local committees for individual follow-up. These are interdisciplinary youth consultation groups for the coordination of educational measures. In the longer term, the departmental authorities also seek preventive solutions by breaking the territorial logic at the origin of the conflicts between neighbourhoods. In this context, they work with very young adolescents from 9 to 13 years of age, who mix together during prevention actions. In the Netherlands, for example, the Rotterdam Police have set out four principles underlying its policy on law enforcement. Firstly, we are talking about information, which, moreover, begins before the events take place. Secondly, it is about providing assistance to individuals, or facilitating the legitimate right to speak, which we also know of, of course. A third principle is to differentiate between peaceful demonstrations and rioters, and of course also to approach them differently. Finally, it focuses on communication, which starts before the manifestation and where the police and the mayor clearly determine what can and cannot be done. All these principles can also be found in the concept of 'gone management of public space', which is used by our police. The lessons to be learned in our future policy are, in my view, to necessarily give preference to multidisciplinary, integrated, integrated approaches by the police and all the other actors involved. In addition, attention should be paid to the importance of the development of a large neighbourhood network, where a great deal of information can be gathered. Finally, the relationship between the police and young people must also be addressed, as we are already doing through the Mutual Respect campaign, which we have already discussed in detail at other times. Like us, the Rotterdam police have found it more difficult to establish contacts with the organisation before and during the demonstrations. More and more these are spontaneous demonstrations, without an actual organizer who is contactable and contactable. Therefore, maintaining the New way of protesting working group is very important. The working group brings together different specialists in nine sub-groups. With a view to tackling urban violence, the activities relating to risk analysis and training are particularly important in the context of "gendered management of public space," led by the National Police College. Since the creation of a centre of expertise or a special task force is still under investigation, it is too early today to make any statements on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I am extremely pleased that you are looking at the tips and tricks of our neighbouring countries. Everyone is faced with similar problems and it cannot be the intention to invent the hot water every time. We'd better copy-paste our neighbors.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u66	Madam Minister, at the beginning of October, the Brussels Government asked the federal government by letter to strengthen the staff of the federal police in and around the stations where there are many transmigrants gathering in the context of the asylum crisis. Transmigrants have been camping for some time at the North Station and the Channel Zone in Brussels. There's a lot of waste, people do their needs and there's a smell of urine. Violence is also increasing as a result of drug trafficking, prostitution and theft. All this creates an increasing feeling of insecurity among commuters and neighborhood residents. In its reply, the federal government acknowledges that the situation around the North Station is effectively worrying and you yourself argue that the federal police are present on the premises every day and support the local police in controlling the problem. However, in the reply to the letter Prime Minister De Croo noted that insecurity also originated in the prostitution neighborhood that is located at the back of the station and attracts crime. He stressed that, although this problem exceeded the municipal boundaries, the adverse effects were manifested within the Brussels agglomeration. In the plenary session of 2 December, you rightly indicated that this requires a global coordinated approach with all relevant levels of policy. In view of the willingness of all actors to work together to find structural solutions, this could be launched entirely on a voluntary basis. A binding framework is also being developed to give the Prime Minister of the Brussels-Capital Region the necessary powers to implement this coordination. Apparently, this coordinated approach has not yet been achieved, because in a letter to the federal government, three mayors of the PolBruNo police zone, Schaerbeek, Sint-Joost-ten-Node and Evere are threatening to close down a number of entrances to the North Station and to raise the federal police for enforcement in the problem area if the federal government does not come up with more resources. The mayors say that you, as the Minister of the Interior, can act on the problems of public order which extend to the territory of different municipalities. What specific commitments does the federal government put first to contribute to a sustainable solution for this neighbourhood, hopefully? To what extent do we wish to proceed with the implementation of these targeted police actions? What kind of action has proved effective in the past? Will the Minister for Grand Cities Policy and the Minister for Combating Poverty also participate in this global approach on the Medusa Platform? I think that might be useful. We know that it is up to the Prime Minister of Brussels to coordinate, although the Brussels-Capital Region does not seem to be fully aware of its new security powers since the recent state reform. You indicated that you would sit with him for an overall plan of action and the way in which he could best be supported. Hence my questions. What specific powers do you think should be placed in the legal framework in order to strengthen the coordination role of the Brussels Prime Minister? Can you tell us when we can expect this legal framework? Have you already planned or held consultations on this security issue with the Prime Minister of Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u67	At present, almost daily actions are being undertaken under the leadership of the local police zone Brussels-North, with the reinforcement of the CIK of the federal police and the participation of the railway police as far as the station itself is concerned. The assistance of the CIK of the federal police was increased from 208 hours in October 2021 to 1,766 hours in November 2021. The parquet is also committed to applying the law as quickly as possible. Fedasil has increased the application of Reach Out in the neighbourhood and the DVZ remains willing to cooperate structuralally with the Brussels-North zone to keep closed places free or assist in the pre-identification of illegal residents. These actions and their frequency are regularly evaluated at the DirCo Brussels Medusa Platform, where several local, regional and federal operational partners are together, and recently the federal policy cells of Justice, Home Affairs and Asylum and Migration are also connected. In addition, we also highlight the importance of the zonal security council that brings together local authorities, the local and federal police and the public prosecutors, possibly supplemented by experts. The past has shown that by carrying out regular large-scale actions, the situation can be controlled throughout the district. However, we must be realistic and not think that this will eliminate the general insecurity problem. This problem is not only caused by migrants, but also by the presence of the local prostitution district and an illegal economic circuit attracts crime. Of course, the federal level has a supporting role to play, but the first party is the local government that can direct the approach locally. Given the metropolitan context, I think it is appropriate for the Brussels Government to take on the coordination, as it can bring together all the relevant partners for an integrated chain approach. In my opinion, other ministers, such as those in the fight against poverty and the big city policy, are also necessary for such an integrated approach. On the Medusa platform, which focuses on an operational approach, these ministers are not yet represented. At present, the Brussels Prime Minister can act through Article 11 of the WPA, which empowers him to deal with security problems that cross the municipal borders. The coalition agreement provides for these powers to be strengthened, because for exceptional, acute or unexpected security problems crossing the borders of the local police area, the police zones are under the coordination and authority of the Prime Minister in order to ensure a necessary unity of command. This whole issue is also included in the work on institutional reform. As already explained in the Constitutional Commission on 1 December 2021, the Prime Minister has committed himself to establishing a method for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u68	Thank you for your answers. I'm glad we're working on this. Of course, it's not an easy task. What surprises me is that the government is hiding behind the problem of prostitution that would be part of it. As far as I know, prostitution has been there for about 50 to 60 years. The neighborhood has never been safe, but I think we should dare say that this is only a very small part of the problem. At the heart of the problems lies the transmigrants. It is important that we dare to say that and understand it, only then can a solution be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Platteau, six different models of shoes are currently being offered for basic equipment. Quality requirements are indeed included in the specifications for the purchase of those shoes, including leather and comfort. To check whether the required quality is achieved, international standards are used, on the one hand, provided by the manufacturer and, on the other hand, by tests carried out by an accredited laboratory. Some police areas, which, as you know, are autonomous, choose to draw up their own framework contracts in certain cases and for certain parts. Different elements can play a role in this choice. This in no way means that the federal offer would be of poor quality. Before a new federal purchase contract was drawn up, a survey was first sent to the logistics manager of the integrated police zones and services, requesting that they be distributed on the widest possible scale. The points addressed in that survey were the comfort and quality of the shoes, as well as various points of improvement. These points have been taken into account. It is therefore not true that only the price would have been charged. In addition to the price, we also look at the operational comfort, ease of use, the range of sizes and the aesthetics. Of course, attention is also paid to international labour conventions and the use of harmful substances. In contracts related to textiles, bio- or recycled materials are often taken into account, or sustainability is widely respected through certain certificates for materials and/or for clothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u70	Madam Minister, I understand that more than one type of shoe can be chosen. It is strange that certain zones find that these shoes are not quality or comfortable. It is important to find out why. I am pleased that not only prices are being taken into account, but also quality, comfort and sustainability criteria, the importance of which is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u71	Mrs. Kattrin Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u72	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you many times about cross-border cooperation with our neighbouring countries. Recently, the Benelux Parliament, of which I am a member, presented many recommendations encouraging governments to increase cross-border cooperation, including police cooperation. While our country holds the rotating chairmanship of the Benelux Committee of Ministers, this illustrates a common desire for better coordination of our services in the fight against cross-border crime in particular. More broadly, when you presented your policy note, you indicated a willingness to make positive progress on the issue of cross-border collaboration in 2022. Increased Franco-Belgian police cooperation is also a real challenge. Madam Minister, could you take stock of the initiatives you took during the Belgian Benelux Presidency and the initiatives you intend to take with your Benelux colleagues in the coming months? With regard to Franco-Belgian police cooperation, what can we learn from this meeting of 22 November 2021 with the French authorities? You indicated in committee on 24 November that it was agreed, among other things, to study the modalities for implementing pragmatic solutions within the framework of the Tournai II Agreement and to optimise the functioning of the existing agreements. Would you be able to give me more details?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u73	Mr Senesael, cross-border police cooperation with our neighbouring countries covers many areas and takes various forms. For reasons of proximity, this cooperation is more extensive with our direct neighbours than it is with other European countries or third States. To answer your question in a nutshell, cooperation with our neighbouring countries essentially takes the form of international exchanges of police information or cross-border interventions in the territories of the countries concerned, which in turn can take the form of planned interventions. These include, for example, joint actions (mixed patrols, joint control patrols or unqualified interventions, such as cross-border prosecution). With regard to police cooperation between the Benelux countries, I would like, first of all, to stress that the new Benelux Police Cooperation Treaty of 23 July 2018 will be an important instrument, inter alia, in the fight against cross-border crime. Belgium is the first of the three Benelux countries to have ratified this Treaty. It seems that the ratification process will come to an end in the coming days in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and that it is also developing favourably in the Netherlands, which, as you know, have a new government. We can therefore hope that the procedure will be finalised in the first half of 2022. Under the direct impetus of the Belgian Presidency, this year's work focused on a number of implementing agreements and arrangements which should enter into force at the same time as the Treaty. This includes the exchange of reference data in the context of the automatic recognition of mineralogic plates, the cross-border transport of persons under the Aliens Act and the common use of liaison officers in third countries. Work still to be done in this area will continue in the coming months. On 8 December, the European Commission published three legislative proposals aimed at strengthening police cooperation at European level. The European Commission has opted for a recommendation on the intensification of operational cross-border cooperation, a directive on the possibilities for the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and a regulation to strengthen the current 'Prüm' cooperation. These proposals will be discussed in the working groups. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that Belgium has obtained a very good report following the visit of the Schengen Evaluation Commission last June for the police cooperation component and that several procedures have been described as good practices in this visit.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u74	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. I will bring the following, in two steps. As far as Benelux is concerned, it is to be welcomed that Belgium has been a pilot in this direction, since it is the first country to have ratified this new cooperation. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg will do so shortly and the new government of the Netherlands, which has just been installed, will be able to do so too. Thus, the implementation of these various procedures can take place at the beginning of 2022. This is a positive point that can be considered almost as acquired. As you are quite right to say, this makes it possible to strengthen this cooperation, to carry out joint actions and to exchange information which may be of interest to all of our three countries. As far as Franco-Belgian cooperation is concerned, you are talking about exchanges, common police interventions, planning of these police interventions between the two countries. We can rejoice at this little step that will be taken. I would remind you that our motion for a resolution, which was approved in Parliament in July as part of this significant breakthrough Tournai III, dealt with three essential elements: better coordination of communication between our countries; better Franco-Belgian training for police officers on both sides of our borders and the prosecution of criminals on both sides of our borders. I hope that we can make significant progress on these three proposals, and that this police cooperation will be further strengthened in the coming weeks and months. Thank you for your cooperation, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I have been contacted about a specific case of people working in the Defence Department. The real soldiers among them have received a medal, but the civilian personnel must turn to you for that medal, as the Minister of Defence cannot give it to civilian personnel himself. It submitted that question to you in a letter dated 31 May 2021. When I submitted my question, there had not yet been an answer to her question. I understand that you have replied to that question in a letter of 1 December. There are a number of arguments. We have already talked about outdated legislation; here you refer to regulations You say in your letter that the deadline has expired, which will certainly be procedurally so. But the letter also says that these people, with all due respect for their intervention, have not put their lives in real danger with their actions. That seems to me very hard to hear for both gentlemen in question. That is why I would like to broaden my question a little, because I see that Mr Verhaert is also referring to it. What exactly is the procedure for medals and honor signs? Shouldn't we review it? Aren't we all too complicated? Perhaps we should take a full look at this legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed answered a letter from Mr Dedonder, who has been delivered to her through the mediation of the services. First of all, allow me to admit that the 2016 attacks and terrorist incidents of course remain in everyone's memory, because the impact on society was so great. Mrs Ingels, as you rightly point out, the impact on the lives of the people who have helped there and have delivered special achievements was particularly great. My services informed me about the formalities we are talking about here that in 2016 the government and local authorities wanted to underline the merit of the various interveners by organising the national tribute on 22 May 2016 and the tribute on 21 June 2016 for the security and emergency services at Melsbroek military airport. In order to honour that agreement and to treat the various aid and intervention services on an equal footing, no citizen was decorated in accordance with the agreement following the attacks of 22 March 2016. This in no way minimizes the tragic nature of the situation and the courage shown by all those involved. But that was the deal at the time. Mrs Verhaert, honorable awards are a means for governments to pay tribute to our policemen and firefighters for the work they have done. Like you and Mrs Ingels, I attach great importance to the evidence of recognition given to those women and men who guarantee the safety of our fellow citizens on a daily basis, especially at special times. As regards the alleged delay in the award of honorable awards to the fire brigade, I can only say that the examination of the files is carried out in accordance with the legislation in force, which lays down two promotions per year, namely on 8 April and 15 November. The files will be linked to one of the two promotions as a function of their date of receipt. A total of about 250 to 300 files are dealt with for each promotion. It is true that my administration cannot award honorable awards on its own initiative. If a zone does not submit a proposal to award an honorable award, a firefighter will in theory never be decorated, even if he meets the conditions. All files were initiated by the integrated police until the promotion of 8 April 2022. It covers 93 961 files in total, 61,000 of which have been handled and 25 912 files still have to be handled by the integrated police HR services. 7,000 files remain to be sent to the entities. All files and their status are available on the intranet. Any member of staff and any department or management may follow the evolution of their files. At the Chancellery level, therefore, the integrated police are no longer lagging behind. The delay may still be at the level of the HR service or management of the different police forces. In any case, the Chancery urges them to deal with the outstanding cases as soon as possible. It is assumed that a further 15,000 files could be dealt with within a period of one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u77	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. For some people this recognition is very important. I can only regret that while people, both civil and non-civil, have worked together, medals have only been awarded to the military. I can understand why that is not acceptable to those concerned. I fully understand that. We need to find another system for these awards. I am looking at France, where such things happen much more quickly. Often those involved are already received and decorated the following week. France even has a system whereby, if a policeman or a policewoman loses her life in working conditions, even the children are taken into account. France goes very far in that. There is a sort of automation there, in which the distinction can be refused if one does not wish it. After all, some people are not sensitive to distinctions. I have the impression that things have been dragging on for a very long time. That can't be the intention. Perhaps we should take a parliamentary initiative in this area and review that regulation almost two centuries ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I got the data on the police. But I haven't heard the details of the fire department. I also have to say that many people are disappointed that this recognition is taking so long. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to consider whether the procedures can be simplified so that those concerned can obtain the recognition to which they are entitled more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u79	Madam Secretary, the OCAD determines an increased level of terror 3 for specific sites in our country. These sites are still exposed today to serious risks where the possibility of an attack or an incident is likely. It concerns, for example, the American embassy but also Jewish institutions in Antwerp and Brussels. Currently, the DAB is responsible for protecting the embassies and local police for those of the Jewish sites. In your policy paper for next year, I read that you are investigating whether you can also hire local police security officers, the so-called BAGPs, and whether they can be used for security missions. The costs for this are basically lower for the police and, in addition, they are people trained specifically for that task. For my group, it is essential to ensure that sites with an increased level of terrorism are adequately protected. That is why we are asking for a modest amount to be entered in the budget, EUR 1 million, which is a relatively small amount in relation to the budget as a whole. Can you tell us whether you will effectively create a legal framework so that local police can recruit BAGPs to deploy for such surveillance orders? Will the Minister also use financial resources for the local police areas that could use them? Would you like to respond to our request for additional funds to be entered in the budget? Do you want to respond to the questions of the local police when she would subsequently recruit BAGPs herself for the monitoring of such sites?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u80	We have asked the police to analyse whether the local police can employ security officers and identify any changes to the legislation that may be necessary. This analysis is now under way and I cannot, therefore, comment on it today. Since the recruitment of these security agents is still being investigated by the local areas, it is too early for me to comment on this and on its funding. We are currently reviewing the funding model of the police and certainly of the local areas, as well as the optimal scale. Adopting an ad hoc budget for certain tasks would create a precedent that would make it difficult for the committee to review and draw up the funding in full. Given the analytical assignment we're conducting, security orders will be included in the work of that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u82	As you know and as we have discussed in detail in connection with the policy paper, we are committed to an innovative police organisation. In the coming months, we also want to provide the necessary work and resources for this. The digital transformation we initiated with i-Police is an important pillar of it. In addition, we must constantly monitor technological developments in a broad domain and develop a common vision of innovation. This vision refers first and foremost to police efforts to stimulate innovation, including through i-Police and other activities. In addition, the police wants to better coordinate concrete initiatives, test them against the operational strategy and support them through appropriate governance. The hackathon we've been through before is an example of that. Within the hackathon one goes with external partners, people who do so voluntarily, and with a fresh look to find solutions to very concrete challenges or concrete phenomena that the police organisation is facing. A lot of new, fresh and innovative ideas are being discussed. At the moment there is no intention to organise a similar general hackathon in 2022 as this year, but of course we are working on the ideas that have reached us this year. With regard to the brand new Innovation service, I can tell you that it started in August of this year. A knowledge-based database of innovation was launched, which provides an overview of existing initiatives and knowledge-sharing. In parallel, this service is working on a proposal for innovation governance within the integrated police. The aim is to clarify the process of innovation and its decision-making. For example, it will be necessary to consider how innovators within the organisation will be supported and how the responsibilities of all stakeholders involved in this process will be determined, including coordination. In addition, this service will also work on an innovation strategy for federal police in 2022, making optimal use of national but also international networks. Particular attention will also be paid to raising awareness of innovation through communication and training at different levels. The Innovation Service had a budget of EUR 700,000 in 2021, which was fully used for the activities. For next year, a budget will be allocated taking into account police decisions on the 2022 budget. Many of the innovative ideas may lack a legislative framework to effectively test them. Similarly, public procurement legislation does not make it easy to respond quickly to novelties. Within the framework of the review of the Privacy Act, consideration is given to how to establish a regulatory framework for the testing of operational data. With regard to the ethical questions raised, I should like to refer to my answer to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55023389C on my initiative to set up an ethics committee on safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u83	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u84	Madam Minister, sport should be a celebration, but unfortunately that is not always the case. The football world has recently been alarmed again by several serious incidents involving Bengali fire in football stadiums. You have publicly expressed your disgust at this, and I can only endorse those feelings. If the safety of supporters and players is compromised, we need to intervene and take action. You are right to make a point of the fight against pyrotechnics. In your policy paper, you announced that you are working with the football players on an action plan against pyrotechnic objects at football matches. You will focus, among other things, on sensitisation. In August, you had already announced that the Council of Ministers had agreed to a preliminary draft law to amend the football law. The aim is a more stringent and comprehensive approach to such resources. In a press release, you asked the Pro League and the Football League for a clear signal after the recent events in various stadiums. For the time being, they have decided not to allow visiting supporters until the end of the year. You can imagine that with a derby between Cercle Bruges and Club Bruges on Christmas Day it's not as pleasant, but well, we'll take that as well. You also announced that they will have another conversation with the Home Office about measures to be taken to stop such dangerous situations. Consultations would be organised with the Chiefs of Police and the local police areas which have a 1A or 1B team on the territory of their zone. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play of the bill amending the football law? When do you expect to be able to submit this draft in Parliament? Have you had any recent consultations with representatives of the football clubs and the supporters' associations about your action plan against pyrotechnics in football stadiums? What were the results of that meeting? Could you clarify your action plan? When do you hope that this action plan will be fully implemented? What were the results of the consultations between the FPS Interior, the Pro League and the KBVB? What were the results of the meeting with the police chiefs? What additional measures and actions will you take in the short term? The stewards play an important role in controlling the introduction of pyrotechnics into football stadiums, making them vulnerable to violence. Do you think it would be appropriate to provide for a similar level of criminal protection for stewards as for emergency workers? I realize that these are a lot of questions, but it is a pressing theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u85	I agree with Mr Demon that football should be a sporting event for young and old, but unfortunately football matches often go hand in hand with violence and hooliganism. On December 5, the match between Antwerp and Beerschot came to an agreement between police and supporters. In the second half there was an incident in which a Beerschot fan threw a flare in the field of Antwerp. The man was overwhelmed by the police and the public prosecutor has imposed a three-month ban on him. The parquet called throwing a flare at people in a gallery not only unacceptable, but also outright criminal behavior. The fact is also further prosecuted. Football club Beerschot spoke after the facts about disproportionate violence by the police and reports on his website, accompanied by footage, that the police did succeed at a time when certain persons did not yet pose a direct or indirect threat. According to the club, many young people and children also witnessed the violence between supporters and police. The club has even filed a complaint with the P Committee. How many people were arrested on the weekend of 5 December for football violence? In other competitions, too, there was malpractice on the part of supporters. How do you evaluate the current sanctions policy vis-à-vis supporters of football violence? Is the policy with, for example, a stadium ban strict enough? What initiatives will you take to ensure security in the stadiums? Which actors will you involve? Will you permanently prohibit pyrotechnics? After all, I do not think that these resources have any place at a football stage. Do you think the police did indeed commit disproportionate violence during the match between Antwerp and Beerschot? How can violence be prevented from escalating in such a way?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u86	Mr President, I refer to my question, because tonight the best club in the country will visit Leuven. I'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u87	The possession and use of pyrotechnics must be restricted, as this leads to major risks. Today, however, the possession and use of pyrotechnology is already prohibited. The use of pyrotechnics in and around the stadiums worries many, who were also brought to my attention by the bus drivers of the players' buses. It is therefore not surprising that a stricter punishment for the possession and use of pyrotechnics was put on the agenda by various actors. The preliminary draft law provides for stricter penalties for 'pyroabuse'. It has now been adapted to the comments of the Council of State and could be submitted early next year, beginning of 2022. Both the Pro League, the football association, the clubs and the representatives of the supporters' clubs with whom I have sat at the table over the past few weeks showed their willingness to stop the dangerous behavior of some or a certain number of supporters. Unfortunately, their words weren't cold yet or on the weekend of December 3, things got completely out of hand in different stadiums. The misconduct of a number of supporters is a stain on the reputation of Belgian football and endangers the safety of many people. With regard to the incidents, six arrests were made for football-related facts: three following the Standard-Charleroi match and three, including a judicial arrest, following the Beerschot-Antwerp match. Of course, a number of procedures will also be possible on the basis of the processing of the footage and the ongoing identifications of supporters who have committed offences but have not yet been detained. As a result of the Beerschot-Antwerp competition, the Antwerp police did indeed use force. Whether this violence was also disproportionate is still to be seen from the investigation carried out by the Department of Internal Control of the local police of Antwerp. Everyone agrees that the behaviour of certain supporters is unacceptable. In a meeting with the Pro League and the Football League, it was made clear that a clear signal, a harmonised approach and clear measures are needed so that the events of recent months cannot repeat themselves. A number of actors stressed the importance of ensuring that all clubs act consistently and align, as they are primarily responsible for what is happening inside the stadiums. The Pro League has now proposed a concrete action plan. Its design is now being studied by all actors. Following this, consultations also took place with the police chiefs of all police areas which have a stadium of a 1A or 1B team on their territory. Everyone has to pull the same strings to stop pyrotechnics and unacceptable behaviour in and around football stadiums. As far as the protection of stewards is concerned, it should be pointed out that we are doing everything we can to ensure their safety as much as possible, but that, of course, a certain safety risk is inherent in any safety function. There is currently no specific federal legislative initiative on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u88	Thank you for the clear answers. I hear there's no legislative work on the flight attendants yet. I will try to take some action on this point as well. I see it myself here in Bruges: aggression towards the stewards is increasing and we must address this issue from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u89	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. You can count on me for your firm approach and the legislative proposals on pyrotechnology that you will submit. It is good that you also refer to the responsibility of the clubs themselves and those of the supporters' associations. They too must guarantee safety in and around the stadium. The police are present, but their role is more repressive. Preventively, the clubs have to take their responsibilities. I also want to express my appreciation and respect for the policemen who have to be there every weekend to ensure security. Moreover, I have tabled a written question on the means that we, as a society, are freeing up for the use of the police to ensure the safety of football events. In any case, I wish you every success in dealing with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. As for the agenda, tonight Club Bruges is playing on the move in Leuven. We are particularly looking forward to your draft law at the beginning of next year. As with demonstrations, it is always just a small group that makes it too fuzzy, 5 % in this case even 2 % of visitors. So we have to take out the rotten apples and impose a stadium ban and other penalties. That's the only way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u91	Mr President, Minister, I would like to outline the issue of the Kids ID. On a Kids ID are the names of both parents of the child. In the event of the death of one of the parents, the death certificate of that parent shall, in principle, be automatically taken into account when the application is renewed. However, in the period between death and the new Kids ID, the next of kin are often confronted with problems. When the child travels with one parent, it is sufficient in principle to put a written agreement of the other parent on paper, to have the signature declared by the municipality for real and to take the written consent with him on a journey. In practice, consent is often requested, not only when travelling. A proof of that parent's death is often requested, which is particularly painful for the next of kin. On the other hand, checking the effective death of one of the parents seems important. The Kids ID is also used to deal with parental abductions. Are you aware of these problems? What steps do you intend to take to resolve this problem? Should a new card always be requested or can the Kids ID also be automatically modified in case of death? Finally, who keeps track of the Kids ID data? Is there a database and is this data included in the central file of the identity cards? Can data not be crossed so that when a parent dies, the government can invite the next of kin to modify the Kids ID?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u92	Mr President, Minister, my question is entirely in line with that, but it is not about passing away, but about parents being temporarily or permanently released from parental authority. So it's about a court order about an appalled parent, but of course both parents are still on the Kids ID. This can cause problems with, among other things, enrolments in schools and travel. In principle, the person deprived of parental authority could travel throughout Europe without having any problems. So the question is, how can we fix that? The fact that it is sometimes a temporary measure makes it even more difficult. Can the intersection of databases provide a solution, so that that person does not have to carry the court order with him each time? What can we do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Verhaert, Mrs Ingels, the problem outlined is not entirely caused by the Kids ID. This reflects the administrative situation of the child concerned, as laid down in the Royal Decree of 10 December 1996. Article 16 describes the data contained in the Kids ID, such as the identity of the parents or, in other words, the pedigree. The legislator has made no distinction with regard to an dismay of a parent from parental authority, the death of a parent or the appointment of foster parents. This means that the parents must be mentioned in accordance with the extract of the birth certificate. When the Kids ID is used to travel, your question actually relates to the recognition of Belgian documents by another State or of requirements that may or may not be justified by a travel agency or a data subject. For an answer to that question, please address Minister for Foreign Affairs Wilmès. When the child's data changes, a new ID must be requested. This also applies if the parents' data changes, because the parents are listed on the card and not just on the chip, as is the case with the address. Under current legislation, however, the death of a parent is not considered to be a change, because that does not affect the descent in itself and it is precisely the lineage that is mentioned. That is why both parents are mentioned, even if they had died. I understand the problem to which Mrs Verhaert refers, and I have instructed my administration to examine whether it is more desirable that the person or persons with parental authority should be represented instead of the parents. Mrs Ingels, the rights of a parent, whether or not dismayed by parental authority, are not reflected in the Kids ID, but in the relevant articles of the Civil Code, which also regulates the cases in which a parent can act alone. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. It is the responsibility of the authority to which a Kids ID is submitted to investigate the rights, by consulting the information in the National Register. A marginal remark is that the decision on parental authority is recorded only in the child's file. Only if there is a judgment or judgment will the person's name be registered. Clearly, the parent who submits a Kids ID must not have to prove that he or she does exercise parental authority. This would also be impossible because it would require negative evidence such as the non-existence of a judgment that would alter parental authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u94	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that you acknowledge this painful situation and have asked your administration to review it. A widower told me the story that he experienced when he was traveling with his daughter. It is particularly painful that a death certificate is requested. I hope that the necessary changes will be made to avoid such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u95	Madam Minister, given your reference to what should be on a Kids ID, I have to conclude that certain authorities do not use it correctly. However, when enrolling in a school, the consent of both parents is requested from whom one of the parents has been dismayed, then the other person must be able to prove it. I am talking about a concrete fact. The problem is therefore due to the possibilities of application. I don't know how we can fix that and what I can answer to the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u96	Mr Metsu, the services are currently working on a starting note on this ethics advisory committee. The aim is to create a broad reference framework for the deployment of new technologies in and to guarantee the safety of our society. It will examine how this advisory commission will relate to the States General of the Police, where the issue will also be considered in the area of Police and Innovation. The starting note will also be discussed within the academic board under the chairmanship of my General Directorate for Security and Prevention, and then the composition and functioning of the committee will be decided. With regard to the ethical use of technology, I believe that this cannot be a binary yes-no story, but that an important reference point will be the principles of the General Data Protection Regulation, where necessity and proportionality are determined by the finality of its use. With regard to the identified innovative techniques and technologies, I refer to my policy paper. It lists a number of innovative ICT yards, such as i-Police, FOCUS, ANPR national camera shield, drones and bodycams. In addition, within the existing legal framework, the police are investigating further possible options for innovation, including in the domains of virtual reality and artificial intelligence. In 2021, five Directives implementing Articles 44/4 and 44/11/9 of the WPA were published, namely the Information Security Directive, the Access Rules Directive, the system for linking police databases, the Directive measures relating to interconnection of technical databases and the Communication Directive. In 2022, the WPA will be adapted as necessary to facilitate the implementation of the application of i-Police. The necessary ministerial decisions and adjustments to the WPA will also consolidate the communication of information collected or processed by the police to public authorities, public bodies or institutions. In order to develop and test innovative adaptations, a legal basis is needed to clarify which technical systems and safety conditions should be respected. This legal framework is currently under review. Where appropriate, adjustments to the existing framework will be examined. As already stated in its vision text on European funding, the federal police aim to make the best use of European funds for all aspects of its operation. In the European Multiannual Budget 2014-2020, the Federal Police applied for several project grants and was a partner in European projects where innovation and the use of technology were central. We are thinking primarily of the projects under the Horizon 2020 programme, which has a specific focus on innovation. The federal police became a partner in several Horizon 2020 projects for a total grant of 1.95 million euros. In addition, some 18 such projects were submitted within European financial instruments, including the Internal Security Fund-Police and the Internal Security Fund-Borders and visas, for a total project budget of €16 million and €13.4 million in grants. This includes projects such as Automated Border Control, e-gates, a project in which an intervention vehicle was developed for the special units and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u97	I can get on with this. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u98	Madam Minister, over the last few months, police and police have been particularly concerned in Antwerp about the rivalry between so-called drill rap groups, with often underage boys fighting each other with knives, machetes and other weapons. This is a hybrid cocktail of street culture and social media, which is being translated into action worryingly enough. The phenomenon has been known for a long time by our northern neighbours, where several deadly confrontations have been recorded. I also refer to my written question No. 916 from a while ago about a number of stabbing incidents. Especially in Antwerp and in Brussels-Capital, there is a significant increase. In 2020, 149 stabbing incidents took place in the province of Antwerp. This is an increase of more than 15% compared to 2019. Are you familiar with the phenomenon? Which police areas and agencies have you consulted on this? What will you do in the area of prevention to nip a further expansion of this phenomenon in the bud? Are there other signs that this problem is spreading through social media, for example? How will you make the problem better known to other zones? I would also have liked to have heard your general view of the apparent increase in walking around with or using knives and other cold weapons in public space. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u99	For the so-called drill rap groups there is no official definition yet. Drillrap is a subgenre of rap music in which not always but often violence is glorified and even encouraged. Drill is a word from English street language and means as much as fighting or revenge, as we understand it. The lyrics of drill rap are often about negative experiences in life. The phenomenon has blown over from the United States to the United Kingdom and the Netherlands and is now also emerging in Belgium. Especially youth gangs associate themselves with it. The possible first signals that can lead to concern are showing intimidating claim behavior in group, the in group noisy rapping on enhanced music, watching and sharing clips on social media, showing off on social media with weapons, money notes, drugs and ski masks, being in possession of weapons on the street, using inciting language, recruiting new members and all that kind of activity. Among other things, the youth crime department of the Antwerp police area follows the drill rap problem aimed at since October 2020. The phenomenon has an evolutionary course and the detected gangs often change their name and composition. In spring 2021, the first two drill rap groups were dismantled, but two new groups have manifested, one of which has since been dismantled. The remaining drill rap group is currently active. The members of that group are underage boys between 14 and 17 years old. In view of the minority, the youth parish of Antwerp works closely with the police area of Antwerp for this phenomenon, in particular with the youth crime department. Most of the facts committed by drill rap youngsters are to be reduced to deliberate beatings and injuries, threats, thefts and forbidden weapons. The police area of Antwerp is monitoring this phenomenon intensively. The existing imaging is closely monitored and adjusted. The Youth Crime Service ensures an active follow-up of the young people who are familiar with this problem, in consultation with the public prosecutor. It is also important to inform first-class workers widely, on the one hand about drill rap as a music genre but on the other hand about the gangs and the criminal behaviour associated with it. I will examine with the integrated police to what extent a more coordinated approach is required, for example as part of the succession of youth gangs and the problem of urban riots.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u100	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I am glad to hear that the police and the courts in Antwerp are working well together to map the problem. You're talking about young people aged 14 to 17. If knives and violence are used there, they take it with them at an adult age. This is a real breeding ground for future crime. This really needs to be mapped out properly. I hear that there is a good deal of work going on in Antwerp and that you will also discuss this with the federal police. I think this is a good way of working, to see what they're doing and to see how we can contain it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u101	Mr President, I had already tabled this question, but I did not receive an answer. That's why I retabled them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u102	Mr Vandenput, as regards your first question, I can tell you that the backend part of the new wage engine has been operational since the October 2021 betting cycle. The implementation of the front end is behind schedule. It was originally foreseen for entry into service on 1 January 2022, but will not be operational until 2023. The SSGPI contacted all police areas in preparation for the GO LIVE and the contact details of the software providers of their accounting packages were provided. Based on the data they received, they were able to deliver the first test files to their suppliers in 2020. The SSGPI has been able to take maximum account of the comments received. It is true that the demand for a link between Class 4 ledger accounts and the budget article was not taken into account. That was not stopped because this connection is not there now and is not provided for by law. It is also true that no test files were provided in Themis' old layout, as they were not ready in time. In the meantime, most of these documents are ready and are made available at every betting run. The SSGPI has confirmed to me that one file is still under development. It is a file containing only budgetary data. The SSGPI hopes to have this ready as soon as possible in order to make it available to each betting run afterwards. The files currently provided already contain all the information that is legally necessary in order to make a correct booking, both in the budgetary and in the general accounts. The GO LIVE of the backend indeed happened from the betting cycle of October 2021. After all, the supplier began to recharge the historical data of the old wage engine, which was necessary to obtain the necessary information for any recalculations. Then the old frontend was linked to the new backend, and so the bet for the month of October was calculated for the first time by means of the new wage engine. In parallel, the old backend was still used for additional validation. As far as continuity is concerned, I can tell you that the new backend has been put into operation at the moment. Although many improvements are still needed, the vast majority of bets are already paid correctly. The supplier and the SSGPI continue to make maximum efforts to correct any remaining errors as soon as possible. Given the size of this project, we can still conclude that the results are not bad. Nevertheless, and I would like to underline this, it is about the betting of police officers, and from a human point of view, of course, every mistake is too much. The SSGPI and the supplier therefore try to minimise and keep the burden of errors as low as possible. As far as your question on the procurement procedure is concerned, I would ask you to submit a written question so that I can explain the amounts correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u103	Madam Secretary, I will put that written question to you, thank you for the suggestion. I am glad to hear that most of the wages are paid correctly. That continuity is important. I come from the world of IT and telecom, it seems like a piece of music to link something like that, with backend and frontend. I hope it's gonna be okay. I'm counting on it. The important thing is that our policemen are paid right and in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u104	I can only comment on the National Security Plan. The National Security Strategy falls within the competence of the Prime Minister and the Internal Security Framework Paper is mainly the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. The NVP is never linked to its own budget or budget plan. The implementation of the NVP is entirely based on existing mechanisms to finance the operation of the integrated police. Of course, the budget is not unlimited. This is why, within the integrated police, there is a mechanism of policy choices where the needs and planned projects are discussed and validated according to pre-defined criteria within the strategic coordination bodies, in particular the Federal Police Management Committee and the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. Article 114 of the Integrated Police Act provides that the basic allocation for federal judicial police is to be brought together in a separate organisational department within the general expenditure budget. The specific appropriations for the federal judicial police will be re-used separately in the implementation of this article of law and will cover both staff and investment and operational budgets. In addition, certain needs of the federal judicial police (FGP) common to the federal police and, by extension, the integrated police are met through other credits. In terms of capacity, at the end of last month there was a deficit in the FGP of 461 full-time equivalents or 9.5%. This deficit has decreased since 2020. As regards the budgetary deficit, an important effort has already been made for the refinancing of the FGP through, inter alia, European relay policy. A loan of EUR 9.33 million was granted for cybersecurity, as well as a loan of EUR 10.03 million for the digitisation of operational processes under the DGJ 3.0 strategic plan. On top of this, the Minister of Justice provides a structural loan of EUR 12 million annually to the NTSU, the National Technical and Tactical Support Unit, as well as a loan of EUR 22 million from the relay policy. The government, as you know, provided for a necessary additional investment in the entire federal police force of 50 million this year, 70 million next year and 90 and 100 million in the following years. The Management Committee of the Federal Police is currently working out the plan for the distribution of these budgets according to the needs of the various components of the federal police, including the Federal Police, and not least the FGP. As far as the fleet is concerned, in the context of the additional investments in the traditional budgets during the years 2021 and 2022, about a quarter of the service vehicles will be replaced. Over the same period, an amount of €6 million of ICT material will also be replaced. As far as DGJ 3.0 is concerned, I support this strategy of the Director-General of the FGP and have regular contacts with him, as with other directors, together with the Justice Commissioner, to find solutions, obviously within the limits of available budgets or budgets and global needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u105	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will address your two colleagues on the other two points.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u106	Colleague, the assessment of the selection process to move to the rank of Divisional Commissioner is still ongoing. The candidates from the current and previous promotions, as well as the actors involved in this process, were consulted on this subject. This evaluation is the subject of a broader project mandate to improve the entire management patent process. The findings of this evaluation will be communicated to you in 2022. The possible advancement of senior commissioners for more than three years will be integrated into the analysis of the selection process.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u107	Thank you, Minister. I feared that the in-depth analysis of the selection process would not be completed at the time of our exchange. I assume that you do not have a partial conclusion or element that can guide us and that you will only give us an analysis when everything is complete. I hope this will be completed in 2022! At the beginning or end of the year? Twelve months is a long time to receive this analysis, which I think is important! There is a shortage of candidates for these functions. Could you be more specific? Is it about the first half, the second half, or even the end of the year 2022? Could you please specify the timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u108	Send me the question in writing so I can answer it in detail!
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u109	Thank you. Finally, given the lack of candidates, individuals who have been performing this function for three or more years in a satisfactory manner could be potential candidates thanks to their field expertise. I hope you will take this into account in the final evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u110	Questions Nos 55023406C and 55023407C by Mr Thiébaut were postponed. Questions 55023409C and 55023412C by Mr Piedboeuf are converted into written questions. Madam Minister, I am pleased to inform you that we have worked well, because the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-12-15-definitief-55-commissie-ic642x.u111	Thank you, Mr President.
