ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, human trafficking, bribery, criminal organisation. That was the clear verdict of the correct court of Antwerp. And this not just by a random citizen, but by someone who held a public office. I quote the court: "just because of his designation by the former State Secretary, not private but public bribery." After all, it is not just an accidental 13-year-old confidant, but an organic extension of the cabinet. The correctional court actually said as much as: the delegation of public power here was so total that Kucam was part of the Belgian state, of the cabinet. Smuggling people in our own institutions. By giving up every control, every check and balance, it wasn't the Secretary of State, it was a human smuggler who controlled the operation. Instead of exercising his own discretion, a smuggler was allowed to do so and the outsourcing was indeed so total that not Theo Francken, but Melikan Kucam was the Secretary of State for Humanitarian Visas. While the former Secretary of State said to us before that there was a thorough screening in advance, we now know with 100 percent certainty that this was not the case. I quote a detective: "Kucam thus decided almost autonomously who came to Belgium and who did not." Mr Francken replied: 'Yes, it is.' Mr Secretary of State, I have a lot of questions that you probably cannot answer. It concerns, among other things, the consequences that the former Secretary of State gave to the various reports. You probably know more about this. It is about the succession once arrived in Belgium. A devastating fragment has been picked from the Kucam judgment, and I quote: 'There was no clear follow-up by the cabinet of the beneficiaries of the visas as to whether they had offered themselves for the asylum procedure'. The result of all this is the known abuse, but also 100 Syrians who have disappeared from the radar. We know almost nothing about them, even because there was no prior thorough screening, which Theo Francken also claimed in the hearings in this committee. That was a lie. I have the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. In the meantime, what do we know about those 100 people? In the meantime, how many applied for asylum? How many have been detected in other countries via Eurodac, or have they still completely disappeared from the radar? Do you have any new information on their whereabouts? What do we really know about them right now? In the meantime, have you been able to find anything that looks like a file? I don't think so. Can you demonstrate here in writing that no proper substantive screening has been carried out beforehand? During the hearings, DVZ made it very clear that he relied on what the cabinet was doing. At that time, the cabinet also replied that no application was refused and this is also apparent from the judgment. Did you find anything that looks like a file? As regards transparency, as a result of the Kucam affair, the residence law was amended to allow DVZ's activity report to contain certain statistical data on visas. In the meantime, it came into force about two years ago. When can we expect the report with the modified data? What qualitative and quantitative statistical data will this report contain on humanitarian visas? How will we find out from that report whether or not there is abuse? Will the report also include information on who will be responsible for the follow-up so that it can be checked that asylum is also applied for and that integration can be monitored? Finally, I would like to ask you if you could give me a little more information on the so-called leak.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, a few days ago, the Antwerp Court ruled in the case of humanitarian visas and the sentences handed down are at the height of the scandal that this case represents: 8 years in prison for Mr Kucam, with a fine of 690,000 euros, 4 years for his son and other penalties for their accomplices in what must clearly be called a real network of human trafficking. However, this condemnation must not make us forget that this activity has been successful because, in the exercise of discretion, the use of intermediaries and procedures for controlling their activity has clearly not been put in place. At the very least, it is "regrettable" because humanitarian visas, Mr. Secretary of State, are a tool that needs the flexibility provided by discretionaryity, but they are literally a passport for safe life for people in inextricable situations. And because what separates discretion from the prince is the establishment of procedures that ensure the transparency, fairness and reliability of its use. These procedures guarantee the responsibility of the person who is the custodian of this power. I do not go back to the press reports this weekend or to the statements of your predecessor, who, however, last Thursday in an interview on La Première, recognized political responsibility. This condemnation is the demonstration of a sloppy policy, a blind trust that has no place in politics. Secretary of State, these are the questions I want to ask you today. Beyond the annual report on the use of your discretion, what measures are in place to ensure the honesty of potential intermediaries when selecting them? What control instruments are developed with respect to their subsequent activity so that such facts can no longer be repeated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u3	I understand that Mr De Vriendt will intervene instead of Mr Moutquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the verdict against Melikan Kucam and some family members was heavy, but quite rightly so. On the hood of refugees, who should actually be able to rely on our government, there has been heavy cheating and fraud with humanitarian visas. They were sold for big money, we know by now. We also know that Melikan Kucam is responsible for this, but in fact Theo Francken, who gave him carte blanche in his cabinet as a colleague-N-VA'er. There was blind faith and no control. It was actually top-notch boyfriend politics, totally irresponsible administration with very serious consequences. Visas normally serve, as we know, to provide the most vulnerable refugees in acute emergency care, but never asked Theo Francken questions, never were those lists checked for effective vulnerability. It's obvious from the police interviews. It is bitter to see that today we do not really know whether those visas really went to refugees in need, or just to people who could afford it. That's how bad it is. All too crazy for words is that the previous Secretary of State picked up rumors about possible abuse, but did nothing. He was notified at least three times: on 6 August 2018, in October and early December. An investigation was never initiated. Those people were told to go to the police themselves. Francken therefore continued to protect Melikan Kucam and his political responsibility is therefore also flagrant. I have a number of questions about how to proceed with the humanitarian visa system. You have shown your indignation quite clearly in advance. In the coalition agreement, we have made it clear that the humanitarian visa system needs to be revised. For our group, the following issues are important: to provide transparency to Parliament and to ensure that visas reach the most vulnerable as the most important criterion. If there is still work with intermediaries, then only with the UN or recognised NGOs. Also a certain follow-up of the people who are admitted here with a humanitarian visa, because that clearly did not happen either. Do you agree to these principles? How do you intend to work this out? How many humanitarian visas have you issued since you exercised your authority? What methods have you worked with?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been outlined in detail by my colleagues. For our party, humanitarian visas have always been an exceptional tool and not a separate migration channel for those who know the right people and can afford it. It must remain so for our party: a valuable but exceptional instrument. Since last week, but actually much longer, we know that Kucam was part of the cabinet, because he was there every week on coffee. Trafficking in human beings was actually organised from the Secretary of State's cabinet. The discretionary power was not exercised by Theo Francken, but by Kucam. We know that for sure now. I think we need to look ahead now. During the discussion of your policy statement, you have already indicated that you will pursue a more transparent policy on the issue of humanitarian visas, Mr Secretary of State. You remain competent to grant humanitarian visas in a discretionary manner, but the policy will be discussed annually in Parliament. Can you confirm that humanitarian visas will always be granted exceptionally in your policy? Can you confirm that there will be no list of criteria for the award? You have already announced that you will ensure greater transparency, including through annual reporting. When will this first report be done? What information can be included in that report? What information could be of interest to Parliament? You indicated last week in plenary that you would cooperate with recognised organisations in the framework of rescue operations. These are exceptions, with sufficient guarantees to be included. How will you ensure that there are sufficient guarantees as to who we allow into our territory? How will you incorporate sufficient guarantees into that system of granting humanitarian visas, working with organisations other than the UN?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u6	Mr President, Secretary of State, since the January 2019 Panoreportage, we have been aware of the abuse of humanitarian visas: human trafficking, corruption, bribery and criminal organisations. Migration policy should fight all this. Now, however, former Secretary of State Francken himself was involved, albeit indirectly, in the case. This is in stark contrast to his statements in and outside Parliament, often evading a so-called weak policy in the field of smugglers and transmigrants. He even claimed that NGOs were guilty of human trafficking. Nevertheless, the former State Secretary continues to defend his policy in this context. Now that Kucam was convicted and the contents of Francken's police hearing appeared under oath partly in some newspapers, we also know that he lied about his policy at the hearing in Parliament when he was questioned about the issue. Since then, we have heard the Secretary of State himself defend things much less firmly in public space. Mr Francken himself claims to have been the victim of Kucam's malicious practices, but it seems that he himself has failed. Finally, I would like to mention an infamous statement, which also speaks volumes. Mr Francken said: "I'm not going to tell you how, because then I'll get into trouble, but I'll write a book about it someday, when the facts are out of date." Thus, he stated at an internal party meeting that he was creative at the time in returning migrants who came into contact with the court. Mr Secretary of State, your predecessor himself does not want to follow up on these serious facts. Will you now take the initiative to set up a committee of inquiry in order to be able to draw lessons from the aforementioned and possibly other omissions or offences of your predecessor? Finally, you stated earlier that you did not want to work with strict, objective criteria for humanitarian visas. Do you, however, see the possibility of establishing minimum procedural conditions for issuing such visas? After all, Mr Secretary of State, as has now become painfully clear, discretion in issuing humanitarian visas can lead to arbitrary and even corruption. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. There is occasionally talk of the new normal in times of covid. If I may say one more thing before answering your questions, it is that I hope that answering questions about human trafficking facilitated by the Secretary of State is not part of the new normal and that we continue to find it hallucinating that this practice has ever been made possible and widely filled by one of my predecessors. It is not for me to replace the criminal court. I can't deal with statements on the file. Nor have we asked for access to the file from the cabinet. For us, it is important for the court to be able to do its job and for the court and justice to have the confidence to clarify the matter. I think that's wise. When we talk about the investigation, we can see from what I read in the newspapers, because from that I have learned that others have made the investigation somewhat difficult at the time when telephones were exchanged about an ongoing investigation. Nor is it for me to set up a committee of inquiry into what happened under the cabinet of my predecessor Francken. It is my job and my responsibility to do it better than my predecessor and to ensure that policy does not give freedom to criminal traffickers. That too is a sentence that I did not think I should express and emphasise. Unfortunately, that is the reality. I am currently examining with all the competent administrations what lessons we can draw from what has happened and how we can build even more guarantees into the humanitarian rescue process. One lesson is very clear: we will not work with rogue intermediaries or intermediaries that we know via-via, but with well-known organisations, as I have already answered a question from Mr Segers in plenary last week. With regard to the persons who came to Belgium with humanitarian visas for payment, I have only limited information at my disposal. The visa file of the persons concerned contains only the list provided to the Foreign Affairs Office by the cabinet of the former Secretary of State Francken. The data and documents submitted in the selection of the files were not delivered to the Foreign Office. The administration was only instructed to consult the security services before giving admission to the diplomatic post to deliver the visa. The Aliens Office's database doesn't allow us to reconstruct family ties. That is certainly a lesson for the future and it is up to the Foreign Office, and no one else, to deal with such visa applications individually. Questions have also been asked about the criteria. Humanitarian visas are, by definition, exceptionally granted. Mr Vandenput has also rightly referred to this. There is therefore no list of criteria for their award, nor is there any link to strict criteria which may exclude the applicant. The discretionary power to assess an application for a humanitarian visa allows for compliance with all the elements in the file. If criteria are applied only, it will make it more difficult to provide the sensitive and vulnerable files outside the scope of the protection that they should be able to use. Subsequent monitoring by Parliament and respect for, among other things, the principle of motivation of the competent services will make the practice of humanitarian visas much more transparent and provide sufficient guarantees for the legal persons. The lack of legal conditions allows us to be flexible and, where necessary, to move quickly. A mandatory procedure with legal criteria, as suggested by some, could hinder this. Similarly, the issue of humanitarian visas in the context of resettlement is different from that of an individual file or a humanitarian rescue operation. I will make every effort to always involve the administration in rescue operations, to seek advice on the fulfilment of certain conditions and to ensure follow-up in Belgium. As I have already stated in plenary, humanitarian visas can be granted in a number of cases. First, most visas are granted for the resettlement of refugees from third countries. This is done in cooperation with reliable agencies such as UNHCR. Secondly, humanitarian visas can also be granted in individual citations. For example, for a vulnerable family member who has stayed in war zones, it is the Aliens Office, not my office, that evaluates these cases individually. An individual's religion can play a role in assessing the individual situation, but it is certainly not decisive in all situations. The case of the most vulnerable and fragile must be considered first and foremost. Thirdly, humanitarian visas are granted for rescue operations. These are quite exceptional. A rescue operation allows a group of refugees, in precarious and dangerous situations, to come to Belgium. In this case, there may be cooperation with civil society organisations. However, I will ensure that I work only with reliable organizations. I will never trust a single intermediary, even if I know him personally. If an unknown organization presents itself, I will have it examined and have its reputation checked both nationally and internationally. In any case, a guarantee is never requested from persons who receive a humanitarian visa. Additional guarantees were also requested. As far as the rescue operations are concerned, you are asking for sufficient guarantees as to who we are admitting to our territory. That seems to me to be a fair question, and indeed Mr Segers has already referred to it, because there are about a hundred people from whom we simply do not know where they are at the moment, who are people who have arrived in Belgium with a humanitarian visa, and we all assumed that they would apply for asylum here, because asylum offers better protection than a humanitarian visa. However, that did not happen, so I certainly understand the demand for additional guarantees. Without undermining the concept of the rescue operation, I will involve the competent administrations as much as possible in order to carry out the necessary checks. As far as organisations other than those of the United Nations are concerned, I will only work with organisations that are recognised on the ground. If an unknown organisation offers itself, I will have it screened to assess its reliability, as I have just explained. My preference is for resettlement rather than ad hoc rescue operations. In this programme, a pre-screening is carried out by UNHCR. CGRA reviews each case individually, in addition to or in place of UNHCR. This year, about 1445 people will come to Belgium via the resettlement programme. Belgium thus complies with its previous commitments. Several questions have already been asked on this subject before. I know that my predecessors mentioned, in any case in words, their desire to respect the agreement that had been reached at the international level. Personally, my aim is not only to respect this verbal agreement, but also to make it a reality. Hence the fulfilment of our commitments. Then comes the reporting element. As I have already indicated in my political note, there will be an annual report to Parliament. This will also be the case for the year 2021. At present the system and the ICT forms are still being adapted in order to be able to obtain correct data. That is necessary, as there is no possibility of splitting up the data that we now have. Reporting will split up the framework under which the humanitarian visa was issued, for example in the context of resettlement, rescue operation or individual file. Age, gender and family situation will also be included. I cannot yet tell you the exact content of the report. Once the new data are available, it will be examined how we can clearly report on this. It is frustrating for me that in recent years there has been insufficient investment in digitalisation and the ICT system from a political point of view. That makes it impossible to accelerate reporting today. I wouldn't rather do that than do it already. There is a reason why digitisation is a priority for this legislature. It is a frustration that the gaps in this area at the moment make a number of policy measures impossible. The follow-up of persons arriving with humanitarian visas will not be mentioned in the report. This depends on what framework the person comes to Belgium. If you have any questions about this, I will of course answer them in Parliament. All questions about figures can be submitted in writing so that our administration can answer them in as detailed a way as possible. The cooperation with well-known organisation rather than dubious intermediaries, the confidence in my own services and the proposed transparency towards Parliament must ensure that there is no room for clientelism and it is a pity that I have to stress this criminal human trafficking organisation. That must not be allowed in any way in the future. You can count on me for that, and I'm counting on you for that. The transparency given to Parliament every year will enable Parliament to do its job.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply. Do I really understand that the N-VA Group is not speaking on this issue? That's really hallucinating. That's how we know her priorities. Smuggling into the Belgian State is apparently not important enough for the N-VA to deal with. How much more serious does it have to be? Campaigning together and not giving at home now, we know that again. Mr Secretary of State, your answers have made it clear that there are no files and therefore no substantive screening, that DVZ has been excluded and that there was zero control by the cabinet. The former Secretary of State has therefore drawn up a fog curtain here, which is now completely blown away by the correctional court and by your answers. In this way, an open gateway was created for those who had the right connections or the biggest banknotes. Let us be honest, we have no idea who the missing persons are or what their motive for disappearance was. By the way, let the former Secretary of State guarantee that. Fair migration without loopholes is not what one says, but what one does. On the contrary, the cabinet policy of laissez faire, laissez passer encouraged the free enterprise of a smuggler. Mr Secretary of State, I am also very pleased with your commitment to greater transparency. I have already argued in plenary for a pre-resettlement plan for each humanitarian visa issued. With such a plan, we will identify who will succeed in Belgium and who will guarantee it, so that we can be sure that someone will apply for asylum right away and that integration will be carried out immediately. This will avoid the disappearance of persons with a humanitarian visa from the radar, as was the case with Kucam. Then we know for sure that asylum is being applied for and we also ensure that newcomers quickly learn the language and find a job. I will certainly give you further ideas here so that we can work on this together. That's fair migration without loopholes, that's controlled and human, that's just good governance with head and heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as you said, it is quite amazing that this white-seing was given by a Secretary of State, your predecessor, to an intermediary acting on behalf of the State, and in the best interests of men and women in danger. Intermediate control is required. You make an important commitment to have a screening before. It is essential to work with accredited bodies, to have control and follow-up on the process from the time of selection of humanitarian visas to the time of arrival in our territory and the follow-up of the procedure for applying for international protection. Transparency is fundamental and does not preclude your discretion. It's obvious: to delegate is to control. That is what you must do. The lessons of the past lead us to this conclusion. Delegating without control is a renunciation that we cannot have today. You must give confidence to the citizens and also to the international organizations that work with us while guaranteeing the protection of all those who will resort to our international assistance. Of course, behind all this, there is still – we cannot deny – an earlier political responsibility. I was also hallucinated to read that your predecessor was commenting on the condemnation and all the underlying phenomenon, saying that he remained behind his policy. I very much hope that you will give another line to migration policy. You have already highlighted this in your policy note. I am confident that you will do so in the coming months. Thank you for this necessary change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to reply briefly, because I assume that we will continue this debate with a new approach to humanitarian visas. For our group, it is very important that discretionary power is not arbitrary. In other words, certainly with regard to Parliament, but also with regard to your functioning on this issue, it will be important to adopt a number of guidelines when considering which dossiers are subject to a humanitarian visa and for which they are not. Take, for example, the vulnerability criterion: will that really be decisive or will you, like one of your predecessors, also take into account the religion of the person concerned? A clear yes or no to that question will help you and us to weigh up certain dossiers. You also spoke in your reply about which NGOs and intermediaries can still work with and with which no longer. The same applies to rescue operations, a special ad hoc detail which is therefore not bad, because sometimes it is also necessary: is there still work with NGOs on the ground in rescue operations? There, of course, the control of these NGOs will be extremely important. In other words, we are asking for a clear policy, without arbitrariness. This policy can be accompanied by your discretionary powers, but a clear framework will still be needed. We would, of course, like to have an insight into the framework that you will use when considering each dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, like Mr Segers, I noticed that no one from the N-VA Group was present during this debate. Mr Buysrogge joined us four minutes ago via Zoom. Welcome, Mr Buysrogge. Perhaps you could convey our concerns? I think it is a great punishment for the N-VA to remain completely detached from this debate. The problem does not exist for them, never existed and will never exist. Yes, colleagues of the N-VA, sometimes looking away is easier than confronting. We know Mr Francken as a committed man. He is also very well aware of the issue of asylum and migration. If he comes to this committee again to honk about asylum and migration, I will certainly not believe him anymore, and I think that is true for most of us. I also note that this was one of the reasons why the N-VA left the Michael administration in a cowardly way in December 2018. They did their math: they knew this was going to come out and they really didn't want that before the elections. The truth has its merits, too. Mr Secretary of State, back to your policy. I am pleased that you will work towards greater transparency, that you will report to Parliament and that you will work with recognised organisations, not with friends you will receive on coffee. We look forward to your new policy. You have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u12	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. It is absolutely good that you will only work with recognised and trusted humanitarian visa issuing organisations. I am pleased with your answer. However, with a few other answers, you have not been able to convince me. You say you shouldn't set up a committee of inquiry. I regret that you do not think that is a valid option. The contradictions mentioned above and the suspicious statements made by the former Secretary of State, but above all the appalling facts, do justify our question. On top of that, it shows at least that he had something to hide and that he may still have things to hide. We cannot allow political responsibility to be largely avoided here. We will then use the PVDA to see which steps we can take. In relation to the issue of humanitarian visas, we are in favour of structural solutions. In order to avoid arbitrariness and corruption, objective criteria must be applied. We remain in favour of working on this. There must also be a way of meeting the exceptions to the criteria, to the sensitive and vulnerable dossiers that you mentioned. If you do not see this as a valid option, at least minimum procedural conditions should be laid down. The drafting of this is not a feat and it would have made Kucam's crimes virtually impossible. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that you do not consider this. The reporting to Parliament on which you continue to call is certainly necessary, but not sufficient to rule out abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u13	Many colleagues have been prevented because they are working in another committee, such as Mrs Van Camp. We shall postpone her questions until she can be here. The combined questions of Mrs Daems, Mr Rigot and Mr Moutquin will be dealt with when Mr Rigot returns. Mr Rigot's other questions are also postponed until he returns. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 55012049C was postponed. Mr Francken is absent. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55012067C and No. 55012073C shall lapse. Mr De Vriendt is gone for a moment, and his question is also postponed until he returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, at the end of last year, a migrant camp housing several thousand refugees was set on fire – probably by the latter – some time after the International Organization for Migration (IOM) left the area, as conditions were not in place to welcome them as winter approached. Moreover, the European Union has also recently judged the living conditions on the ground totally unacceptable and has announced its intention to increase its humanitarian assistance budget for refugees in Bosnia by €3.5 million. Since the fire, a thousand migrants have been homeless in a very cold and rainy weather. In addition, the resistance of the population and the very reserved behaviour of the Bosnian authorities are added. The situation is, therefore, rightly described not only as unacceptable, but above all as very difficult. Mr Secretary of State, has Belgium considered the incidents in this refugee camp? What will be the fate of the migrants concerned? What protection will be granted to them? What lessons can be learned from this event in order to prevent others of the same order?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u15	Mrs Jadin, in view of the absence of several members of the committee, I have time to answer all the questions in detail. It must therefore also be seen as an advantage! As I mentioned at the committee meeting on 6 January, Belgium has always shared the European Union's criticism of Bosnia's asylum and migration policy. The Belgian representative on the spot closely follows the events and has repeatedly insisted with the Bosnian authorities on their obligation to welcome migrants, but also to improve their asylum procedure. The SPF Foreign Affairs informed me that an interview with the Bosnian Ambassador in Brussels was planned. For further details, I suggest that you question the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sophie Wilmès. Moreover, if I am not mistaken, she will address this issue in the Committee on External Relations this afternoon. Meanwhile, there seems to be a slight improvement in Lipa camp with the installation of heated tents. Nevertheless, nearly 300 people have still not been able to rehouse. The European Union continues to call for the reopening of Bira but, in order to deal with the urgency, is considering financing the improvement of the Lipa camp. Moreover, the behaviour of all authorities remains problematic. As I said in the last committee, the problem does not seem to be financing but rather Bosnian policy. The only long-term solution would be the commitment of central and local authorities to take responsibility for the situation and to improve the situation of refugees and migrants on their territory. I hope that the European Union and Belgium will continue to put pressure on the negotiations on Bosnia's accession to the European Union. Yes, we certainly have a role to play as a Belgian state. When such a problem arises in a certain country, we must do our utmost with regard to our humanitarian commitment. Our main role is to increase pressure on those States that do not respect international law or the basic humanitarian conditions that should prevail in each camp. That's not the case here. I hope that the last element I mentioned in the current negotiations between Bosnia and the European Union will be used to increase this pressure. Indeed, the daily images that come to us hurt my heart and have no place in the European Union, Europe or anywhere else in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these detailed and very detailed answers. I agree with your analysis, of course, both as regards the need to be able to use our diplomatic weight – I also take note of the responsibility of foreign affairs in this area, and I will come back to it in an ad hoc committee – but also in relation to the negotiations on possible agreements between the European Union and Bosnia. This also applies to Member States of the European Union and certainly to other countries in Europe, as regards the protection of human rights and respect for international law in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u17	Mr. Secretary of State, the Flemish government agreement announced in 2019 a change in the Flemish integration and integration policy. Last summer, a first note was adopted in the Flemish Government, indicating how this will be achieved. An important preliminary draft decree is currently on the table. This preliminary draft decree would have an impact on the reception of asylum seekers, including at the federal level. In future, asylum seekers will be excluded from the right of integration. However, asylum seekers have always been part of the target group. Applicants for international protection would still be eligible for a course NT2. I have a number of questions about this. How do you look at the strategy of early intervention to activate asylum seekers as quickly as possible through a course of Social Orientation and Language Acquisition? To what extent were you involved or informed about the reforms at the Flemish level? How do you view the Flemish Government's choice to exclude asylum seekers from integration in the future? Will you contact your colleagues in the Flemish government about this? After all, if I compare this with your policy plans, I can see that you are following a different path. You are actually saying that integration paths can already be started so that those involved are well prepared for the life that will follow after the recognition decision. At that stage, integration has real value. The policy is also strongly committed to voluntary return. That seems very counter-intuitive, but there is research that shows that people who are well received and given opportunities to learn are also easier to convince to return. From that point of view, how do you look at the changes announced by the Flemish level? Fedasil also has the task of directing asylum seekers to training and education. How do we guarantee with this Flemish policy that an accessible offer is still being organised? Finally, your policy is also aimed at reducing the asylum procedure. Were any steps taken in the past few weeks? What's on the line? What is the current average duration of the asylum procedure? What was the evolution of this in the last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u18	Mr De Vriendt, the relevant preliminary draft decree was first approved by the Flemish Government before the ceremony. It concerns a matter entirely within the competence of the Länder. Of course, I wasn't involved. You are right to say that there are similarities with my powers. For me, the existence of such interfaces was the main reason for my proposal to set up this Inter-Ministerial Conference on Migration and Integration. That's what my policy statement said. The necessary steps have already been taken. As you know, this proposal has now been accepted by the Council of Ministers, so that it can soon be placed on the agenda of the Consultative Committee. The IMC will create a consultation platform where, if desired, such dossiers can be discussed in the future, given the link between the themes of asylum, integration and integration, of course always with respect for everyone's competences. I think it is important that we get to work quickly with all the newcomers. This can be through an integration process, but that is only one way to work quickly on integration. A good and rapid access to the labour market is at least as important, if not even more important. Of course, there must be good guidance for all newcomers. This guidance obviously depends on the migration channel and the corresponding status of the newcomer. In my view everything stands or falls with competence acquisition. That comes in handy for everyone. It is useful for an asylum seeker who stays here because his application for asylum is being treated positively. If he is not, he can use the skills that have been learned to work in the country of origin. For asylum seekers in particular, I do not believe that the decision of the Flemish Government makes it impossible to obtain good skills. I have already said it in the defence of my policy statement in Parliament, for example, that after four months they may begin to work if their procedure has not yet been completed. We have already discussed the seasonal work which was partly made possible last year thanks to asylum seekers. In addition, they can already be transferred to the labour market in advance. There are also exceptions to the rule. For example, unaccompanied minors are not excluded, which is a particularly good thing, given the vulnerability of this group. By the way, all minors have the right to education from day one. For them, integration is mainly through this way. The Agency for Integration and Integration has the task of leading these minors to education. For the sake of clarity, this assignment is not changed. Finally, it is also important to bear in mind that most asylum seekers are not recognised as refugees or otherwise protected and will therefore have to return to their country of origin. The recognition rates for the last three months clearly show this. The figures for September, October and November were 33.7 %, 31.9 % and 29.1 % respectively. This means that the budgetary impact is great for a group whose majority will never stay in our country. Nor do I believe that this proposal jeopardises voluntary return. In presenting my policy paper, I have addressed in detail the issue of voluntary return and the importance I attach to it. It's gonna stay that way. A policy of support, including good information, must ensure that the whole return policy is strengthened, both voluntarily and forced. A fast, high-quality asylum procedure is indeed one of my priorities. Faster decision-making also gives all concerned quicker clarity. Previously employed staff are now well trained, which can increase the number of decisions. As far as the duration of treatment is concerned, it is not surprising that it has increased in 2020. This is, of course, due to the covid crisis and the temporary cessation of asylum interviews at the Foreign Affairs Office. The average duration of treatment of the decisions in 2019 was 281 days from the registration of the application for asylum at DVZ and 164 days from the delivery of the file to the Commissioner General for Refugees and the Stateless. In the first nine months of 2020, the deadline was 429 days from the date of registration and 201 days from the delivery to the Commissioner-General.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u19	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the comprehensive answer. As you yourself say, there are certainly similarities with what is in the pipeline at the Flemish level. I think that consultation would have been appropriate, also because you yourself announced the Inter-Ministerial Conference at the federal level. In other words, you showed the will to discuss when there are interfaces, when both levels of policy touch each other. I think this would have been nice here. In any case, agreement will have to be sought. You will not be surprised that I have more affinity with your perspective and with the federal government's perspective on working well with newcomers than with policy decisions that are now on the agenda at the Flemish level. I agree that we need to work with newcomers as soon as possible, including asylum seekers. Integration pathways are an important opportunity for this. Maybe that's not the only thing, we'll have to see to what extent that philosophy can still take place from your jurisdiction at federal level. We are counting on you to convey that vision to your colleagues at Flemish level. The Inter-Ministerial Conference will be extremely important in this regard. We welcome the fact that it is coming, and this can only improve the coherence and coherence of our country's policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u20	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a question about the budget. During the discussion of the budget and the policy paper, we had an exchange of views on this subject. Has the allocation of the EUR 50 million envelope already been decided, which you received extra for 2021? That was not decided by the end of December 2020. In the meantime, has that been decided? What exactly does the distribution look like? This is important for Parliament to know in order to be able to follow up on the progress of the year ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u21	Mr President, Mr Francken, it is indeed an important question because it deals with an unprecedented investment in Asylum and Migration. We are talking about EUR 50 million in 2021, but we are going structuralally to EUR 100 million by 2024. That is a good achievement, and we must use the resources in the right way. However, I would always like to stress that the current government has made the conscious choice of not always setting certain priorities in budgetary terms. One of these priorities was and still is that we need to invest in Asylum and Migration so that the procedures can be further strengthened. As already mentioned in December 2020, the precise allocation of resources is the subject of a decision of the Council of Ministers. So I can't make a preliminary deduction on that. However, I can tell you that we are currently finalising the proposal for distribution. Of course, my more general explanation of the objective remains unabated behind the additional resources. I made it clear in December 2020 when I would like to be able to land. That means that you will be able to ask me that question again very soon and I will be able to give you a more comprehensive answer very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, thank you and follow up on the dossier. I understood that your proposal would go to the Council of Ministers at the end of January 2021. I will read this in any case in the decision-making of the Council of Ministers and then question you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, I asked you how many extremists last year or the last two years have been released from the closed centres. You then decided to give me the figures for the last five years. Not for me, it could have been the figures for the last 20 years. It was said that the Foreign Affairs Office does not know how many extremists are released, but how many are sent back. To be honest, I find that very strange, because extremists or radicalised people form a separate category. After all, we know who is to be sent back, who is to be released, after a procedure, because they are to be given asylum or for other reasons. The Radicalism cell follows this category and in Vottem there is a separate wing for radicalized people, where there are also extremists. One must know which one of them is sent back and who one should finally release. So it seems strange to me that you say that you do not have those figures. One must, of course, have it. There is also a standard protocol requiring the local police, the OCAD and the security of the State to be informed when releasing extremists on Belgian territory. For that reason, too, I found your answer strange. They also mentioned radical extremists who were sent back to Algeria and Morocco. How do you do this with respect for Article 3 of the ECHR, the non-refoulement principle? I have tried to do so myself, and that has always proved to be very fragile and difficult in legal terms. You have given figures and mentioned countries of destination. How did you assess this in relation to Article 3? How did that pass the courts without a problem? Everyone remembers the Sudan issue, where it was a very big problem to send Sudanese back to Sudan. It was not about sending Muslim extremists back to Morocco or Algeria, which is even more difficult. After all, Morocco and Algeria have rather strict legislation that determines what they do to Muslim extremists. How'd that go right? I'd like a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u24	Mr Francken, I understand your question because there are a number of things that are really weird. It is particularly strange that we have not invested enough in digitalisation in recent years, as I mentioned at the beginning of the committee. This means that numbers have to be taken manually from old files from the past few years and that numbers have to be counted on how many people they are talking about. In the meantime, the services have done the same, at our request. On 30 October, you asked a number of questions about which no answer could be given because we do not know or can find out with a mouse click. The data is not digitized and a manual pluralization is therefore necessary. That's weird. Both during the policy statement and today in the committee and during a number of other committee sessions, it has been mentioned that we want to continue to focus on digitalisation in the coming years, so that such data should not be extracted from under the dust, but be readily available. 11 persons were exempted from the list held by Radicalism cell since 2016. In 2018 that was 8 people and in 2019 19. In 2020, 7 persons were exempted. By comparison, in 2017, 17 persons on this list were removed from the closed centres. In 2018 20 people were removed and in 2019 14. By 2020, that was 7 people. In 2019 and 2020, 5 people were removed from prison. The exemptions were the result of a judge's decision requiring the services to do so, because the retention period had expired, because identification was not possible or because the foreign authorities did not want to deliver travel documents. In some cases it was an exemption for medical reasons or because the Commissioner-General had included in his decision an recognition or non-refusal clause. Of course, it is not the case that when a radicalised person is exempted, it is not followed up further. In the event of an exemption, the partner services will be immediately informed and both the security and police services will continue to ensure the follow-up of the person. As always, these files will be discussed at regular intervals at the partner consultation and the Foreign Affairs Office will take further steps if possible or necessary. What can be improved in these cases is cooperation with, and above all, the countries of origin. It is important that the services in question cooperate shoulder to shoulder with the countries of origin in order to facilitate more return. We will ensure that this will be a priority on the agenda in the coming months and years. I have also spoken on this issue many times in committee. With certain countries of origin, it is difficult to establish cooperation, as is the case for each country, but I have to say that some European countries have better cooperation agreements than others and that some countries have better cooperation agreements than our country. In the coming years, therefore, we will have to invest in it in full, because it will be necessary to improve the figures. Article 3 of the ECHR is, as you know, an absolute right. In other words, there can never be any deviation from it. The assessment of a possible violation of Article 3 is no different for foreigners who are succeeded by the Radicalism cell of the Foreign Affairs Department. This will always be assessed on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the elements of each individual file and taking into account the right of hearing. I would also like to draw your attention to what is contained in my policy paper on the specific cell that DVZ set up in mid 2020 and which deals with the application of Article 3 in the context of return. This cell follows the case law surrounding this issue and supports the services involved in the return of their tasks and in the decision-making process. That cell will therefore continue to be supported and strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. You say that this has still to be done manually, but it is not about many cases, so I assume that this could be done on 30 October. It can't be that much work. It's not about thousands of cases, it's not even about a hundred people. It is undoubtedly true that more needs and can be digitised. We'll see if we can do that in the years to come. You say that more cooperation will be needed. No one will contradict you in that. The results will have to wait. With regard to the review of Article 3, you say that you set up a cell by mid-2020. The review of Article 3 took place before that, but you say that people were still being removed. In 2020, it seems to be seven people, but I wonder how many people we have been talking about since mid-2020. After all, if your cell follows all the case law surrounding Article 3, and if I see which way that goes, then I do not think you will get any more Muslim radicals deported, surely not to a non-European country. Your figures are not quite clear. You're talking about removals. This could include expulsions to another European Member State under the Dublin Regulation or extradition. You say that in 2019 and 2020 five people were removed from prison, and they must be counted. Are we talking about five in 2019 and five in 2020, so ten in total? Or is it five in total? That's not clear to me. There are also a lot of exemptions. That's still a tricky point. I wish you every success with your article 3 cell. It will only ensure that you de facto get almost no one removed, if you can get one country to take over from it. It will only be more difficult and difficult, because of all kinds of European case law and legal rules, which you and your government support as great defenders. I have nothing against the basic principles of the democratic rule of law, but I do dispute, on the substance, the way in which foreign law and the sovereignty of Member States are undermined. We're barely getting people deported anymore. The expansion of difficult profiles becomes almost impossible. They'll all stay in Europe. Those are not nationals of our country, they are not Belgians. Often their long stay has also been withdrawn by legislation that I have made possible in the previous government. This means that people are always stuck more and more. The Belgian Government is now proposing three judges of a fairly left-wing signature to the European Court of Human Rights. They will, of course, make it even more difficult. It is already difficult to follow all the case law of the Court of Justice, especially those of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. It will only become more difficult in the future. Anyway, that's the direction you want to go. That is certainly not the direction that I think we should take. I take note of that and will ask for the figures annually. Then one might be able to keep them well in a separate board table, instead of having to search them under a dusty closet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u26	Mr President, Secretary of State, the European Digital Rights Association has published a report on the use of new technologies in migration policies. This in a context of increasing in Europe – by the states or Frontex and Europol – the use of Big Data to predict migration movements, decide automatically the fate of migrants, establish a scale of risk, or even a detector of lies via artificial intelligence. Recently, the European Commission has proposed to develop facial recognition programmes and other biometric and health data to "screen" migrants. However, the EDRi report shows that the use of these technologies is often incompatible with the fundamental rights of migrants. Moreover, behind an apparent neutrality, they can be used in the context of determined policies and often based, voluntarily or not, through discriminatory biases, on xenophobic prejudices. Moreover, the risks to human rights and the rule of law – inherent in the use of artificial intelligence – have also been at the heart of the recent work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For example, resource or time constraints, lack of understanding and deference to the recommendations of an AI system, or reluctance to depart from them, may place public servants in a situation of extreme dependence on these systems, leading them to abdicate their professional responsibilities. Such considerations raise the issue of responsibility for decision-making. This is all the more true in the area of migration, where there is a clear division between those who establish the processes of artificial intelligence and those who undergo them. So let me ask you the following questions: Have you read the report of the EDRi Association and its recommendations and the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on artificial intelligence (October 2020)? Can you list the different uses made by Belgium and by European bodies of artificial intelligence in migration policies, whether at individual or collective level? Is there an assessment of these uses in relation to their human rights risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u27	Mr Lacroix, neither the Office for Foreigners nor the CGRA use the techniques you mentioned: artificial intelligence, detector of lies and others. Therefore, there is no need for an evaluation. Nor do my administrations use an automated facial recognition system. That's the answer I have to give you. Nevertheless, I would like to clarify my personal position on this matter. When it comes to asylum and migration, there is also a question of human assessment. For this reason, it is dangerous to use techniques such as digitization and artificial intelligence, which can be described in brochures or through certain images as part of a system that will solve all our problems. We must also mention all the problems that accompany them. Therefore, care must be taken not to use it in human relations. According to several studies I have read, some algorithms discriminate even more than a human being, due to a lack of information in the system. To believe that digital modernization will help us and that the human must be pushed away from the migration circuit is the last position to support. Anyway, it's not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to thank you sincerely for your clear and firm position. First, I am reassured that your services do not use artificial intelligence processes that are often initiated by state orders, without prior parliamentary debate, and by private organizations for profit. This device operates on the principle of a black box, concealing what is behind algorithms, whose discriminatory effects can prove very serious. When it comes to immigration, we are also talking about the power of detention, of control over the population. The risk is therefore high. Your insistence on the human nature of the decisions to be taken is essential. Indeed, algorithms will be based on statistics as well as factual data, while forgetting the human aspects of the "why" and "how" of migration. These people arrive at our home, driven by war, climate change, violence and human rights abuses in their own country. They come to get something from us that would allow them to live more decently. I think you have to be careful, but you are. I am going to leave this committee a little bit lighter; indeed, when I read the EDRi report and the use that European countries, particularly Greece, can make of it, or what Frontex would like to do with it, I still shuddered a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u29	Mrs Daems, Mr Rigot is not yet here, but we are not going to wait. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u30	Mr President, Secretary of State, on 3 January, Flemish Minister Beke stated that anyone who is legally resident in Belgium will be able to receive a vaccine free of charge. This raises a number of questions, because a large part of our inhabitants are not legally resident. These people are therefore also in a very vulnerable situation, even more so in this corona pandemic. A policy in the context of COVID-19 must be as far-reaching as possible if we are to tackle this health crisis vigorously. That is why it is necessary to involve all the inhabitants of our country in drawing up a vaccination strategy and then actually reach them in implementing it. Have you discussed this issue with Minister Vandenbroucke or are you planning to do so? What is your opinion on the fact that we risk not being able to address some of the inhabitants of this country in this way, thereby increasing the risk that the target 70% vaccination rate will not be achieved? For people without legal residence there is a medical emergency card. Will this card also allow access to the free vaccine? What will happen to people who don't have this card? The procedure for obtaining such a card often takes a very long time and is also very complex. Will you call on the Minister responsible to adapt this system for them, so that they too can be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u31	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will be able to answer part of Mrs Daems's questions since I have asked the Minister of Health who said that it is in the context of emergency medical aid that people without a residence permit, who are called "undocumented", can have access to the vaccine. However, I am concerned about Mr Vandenbroucke's answer, as the figures show that only 8% of undocumented people are aware of this system. Knowing that 8 to 10% of undocumented people are in Brussels, it is important for this city that our vaccination strategy includes them, just as it should be for testing and tracing. Mr Secretary of State, is the government considering taking an initiative to let the undocumented public know that vaccination is available to them and free of charge? Do you intend to cooperate with the Minister of Health to strengthen this accessibility by reducing bureaucratic requirements? In addition, there is the question of vaccination of persons in the process of applying for international protection. What is the vaccination plan for residents of Fedasil centres who also represent a public at risk because of the promiscuity in which they live? When can the first doses be given to both residents and workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problems outlined and the questions that follow are right and require due attention. I am glad that you are asking the questions, because politics as a whole has been answering questions about COVID-19 for a number of weeks and months, but until recently I have had few questions about this, while it seems to me that many people are also affected by the virus in the Department of Asylum and Migration. The people you are talking about are often in a vulnerable situation. Their vaccination situation needs to be clarified in the next few weeks. As you know, this clarification will have to be made through the task force vaccination. The task force is currently discussing what the vaccination strategy will look like. I am convinced that if we want to achieve group immunity as quickly as possible, we must take account of all those who reside on our territory. My services therefore provide their expertise with the task force vaccination, so that the vaccination campaign in Belgium will be a success, and that is good for everyone. My cabinet is currently sitting with the cabinet of the corona commissioner for consultation. I am convinced that this should be done with the expertise that exists within the task force. I know everyone wants to be the first, but we need to vaccinate as wisely as possible to get rid of COOVID-19 as soon as possible. So let the strategy be determined by experts in Belgium and in the rest of the world who know how to get rid of COOVID-19 as soon as possible. Meanwhile, my department offers the expertise to know what the potential problems and challenges we may face. Going to group immunity as soon as possible and taking care of everyone, seems to me to be the basic premise that needs to be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u33	Mr Secretary of State, health is a human right and as long as people without legal residence are not aware that they can be vaccinated, or as long as people do not have access to a vaccine without a medical emergency card, they will continue to walk around with the risk of infecting others and becoming ill themselves. This can have a major impact on public health. I have not heard in your reply whether you will be talking to Minister Vandenbroucke about this, but I urge him to do so, so that this population is really involved in the vaccination strategy, because health is also a human right for people without legal residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, I find it interesting that you want to take the whole population into account. You're right, the virus doesn't require papers from citizens who live in this country. When it touches an individual, it does so randomly. It is known that the undocumented population is particularly vulnerable. Why? Because the lack of access to health care for some people in this audience means that they already have pathologies, respiratory problems, diabetes problems, etc. who couldn't be treated. They are therefore all the more vulnerable to covid. It should also be noted that most of these people have lost, as a result of the covid crisis, the jobs they had in the black and that they no longer have income - for some of them for eight or nine months. The debate on the administrative compliance of these people may need to be heard in Parliament, but I think that we really need to focus on this public. I can only encourage you to take into consideration the work of the people on the ground. I'm thinking about the Citizen Platform for Refugees. This platform has been developing incredible expertise for six years. She's making herself available to doctors. She worked with Médecins du Monde and other associations and NGOs. It is necessary to be able to rely on his expertise, his framework and his space to be able, why not, to start a vaccination campaign via this platform or via other actors. Whether we agree or disagree, it is a reality: hundreds of people in Belgium are hosting people who are passing through. They may also, in one way or another, be part of this vaccination campaign. About the Fedasil centers, I also think it's an emergency. I recall that during the crisis, mayors arrogate the right to quarantine centres, thus putting children in dangerous and incredible situations – without access to school or leisure. Sometimes, burgers, whether on the French or Flemish side, played cowboys. I think that shows that Fedasil must have a coherent and organised management of this covid crisis. I am also thinking of all the staff of Fedasil, of course, who are looking forward to this vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u35	Mr President, according to estimates from a European Parliament report dating back to 2018, 90% of those granted refugee status in the European Union have arrived irregularly. This figure is particularly challenging. It illustrates the fact that the European Union and our country do not provide enough safe and legal migration routes for people at risk to reach Europe safely. By leaving these refugee candidates without a migration solution, the traffickers of human beings are left with a boulevard allowing them to thrive on human suffering. We must do more and better to prevent refugee candidates from travelling dangerously and expensively, but also to break the commercial bounty of the lack of safe and legal routes for human traffickers. Mr Secretary of State, are there any figures in Belgium for the percentage of people arriving in our country irregularly among the population of those obtaining refugee status? What actions do you intend to put in place to develop the possibilities of safe and legal routes for people at risk? The government agreement refers to resettlement, relocation and humanitarian visas. Do you intend to advocate at European level for more ambitious and binding targets for the issuance of humanitarian visas? At Belgian level, are you considering improving and increasing the issuance of humanitarian visas and short-stay visas for refugee candidates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u36	Mr Moutquin, my previous answer was only in Dutch. My apologies for that. With regard to your first question on the figures, I do not have any statistical data on the number of applicants for international protection who have arrived in Belgium illegally. Secondly, the European Commission has asked for additional legal channels for persons with protection needs. At this time, project proposals for an AMIF call (Asile, Migration and Integration Funds) are being evaluated and developed. These projects aim to bring people in need of protection to Belgium. These are pilot projects and therefore a very limited number of people. I am in favour of such projects. However, it is important to keep control over the reasons and modalities for coming to Belgium for those coming to Belgium. You should also be aware that the development of legal channels of migration will not necessarily lead to a reduction in illegal migration. Thirdly, the question of additional legal remedies is part of the European Pact, which we have already discussed at length and which we will discuss at length in the weeks, months and years to come. But the discussion is therefore to be considered in this context. It is difficult to make progress in any area without agreement on the European Pact as a whole. Currently, long-term humanitarian visas are not governed by European law but by national law. This was also confirmed in the judgment of the Court of Justice against Belgium. I will not advocate the inclusion of these visas in European law, because in this way we can get people out of precarious situations more quickly. I think we discussed this during the last session of this committee. Sometimes we have shared our frustrations with the European procedures that are dragging on. Somewhere, the fact that we can deal with this in a national way helps us to move forward, especially with regard to humanitarian visas. These are often very precarious situations in which rapid action is needed. Fourthly, within the framework of AMIF projects, legal possibilities are examined via student stay, single permit or a humanitarian visa. In any event, according to the case-law of the Court of Justice, a short-stay visa cannot be issued when a person intends to stay in Belgium for more than three months. It is therefore always a question of long-term residence visas when it comes to refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I agree with you. However, we do not really have a study that shows that some freedom of movement influences illegal routes. This does not mean opening borders, but, on the contrary, an opportunity to control people who are more easily accepted for short stays. On the other hand, if legal channels do not necessarily have results on illegal routes of migration, it is known that they have a result on the number of deaths, especially in the Mediterranean, on the number of people trafficked, on the number of slaves in Libya. I could really make a pretty important list. The point of my question was, therefore, also to be able to reflect on these clichés that we sometimes hear of the so-called opening of borders, whereas in fact, what we would like, in a more humane migration policy, is that people do not have to risk their lives when they can get a status here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I know that personal cases cannot be mentioned here, but, to illustrate my question, I would like to say that I have recently been put in contact with a Beninese family comprising, in addition to the parents, two children aged six and nine. The family arrived in Belgium in April 2018 and the two children were very quickly recognised as carriers of a serious hereditary genetic disease, sickle cell disease, which includes a very high risk of premature death. Currently, the nine-year-old girl is hospitalized and no longer able to walk. As a result of this hospitalization, the family applied for a stay on the basis of Article 9ter. His application was refused by the Aliens Office. As you know, this section 9ter of the Aliens Residence Act allows sick persons to apply for a residence permit because of the lack of appropriate care in their country of origin. It would appear that the Aliens Office is particularly strict on the application of this article, even to persons affected by serious diseases such as sickle cell disease. The Aliens Office generally states that all medical treatment and required follow-up is available and accessible in the applicant's country of origin. However, while there are treatments for sickle cell disease or other diseases, this assessment does not seem to take into account the health realities of the countries concerned, including the cost of care, infrastructure and human resources. Mr Secretary of State, how many residence rights on the basis of Article 9ter were granted in 2019? Are the figures broken down according to the different pathologies? The opinions of the doctors of the Office for Foreigners refer mainly to an examination of the availability of care in the country of origin. What about the actual accessibility of such care? On what information do the doctors of the Office for Foreigners base their opinions? The International Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges States to give priority to the best interests of the child in each decision. Should we not therefore guarantee the application of Article 9ter to all families whose children are suffering from a serious illness?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u39	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, as you know, I am not commenting on individual files. As a fairly active member of the commission, you probably receive individual reactions, emails and case letters. I don't think I have to tell you how much I get too. It is always complicated, but I am glad that the Belgian State has a neutral body, the CGRA, which examines each case and allows us not to be dependent on the Secretary of State, particularly with regard to this assessment of cases. If that were the case, we would not always be happy. With regard to your first question about the figures, I would like to ask you to introduce a written question. Sometimes I try to answer directly when the numbers are available, but it is necessary to give my administration a certain time to answer them – through a written question, in accordance with the Rules of the House. I would also like to refer you to the website of the Aliens Office which contains information on residence permits. For example, by looking at the figures I found on the website of the Aliens Office, a stay was allowed to 289 people in 2019 on the basis of Article 9ter. With regard to your second question, the doctors of the Aliens Office check both the availability and accessibility of medical care in the country of origin. To do so, they have access to current and high-quality information on countries of origin, including those collected by MedCOI and EASO? In answer to your third question, the doctor of the Aliens Office is applying Article 9ter correctly, both for adults and for children, by deciding on all these risks in his opinion. To grant a right of residence to all families whose children are suffering from a serious illness, without checking the treatment possibilities and accessibility in the countries of origin, or the treatment deemed necessary, does not seem appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u40	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I fully agree with you with your preliminary remark. Our role is not to comment on individual cases. But it is true that when individual cases come to us and the same questions are repeated, it can allow us to ask structural questions. I hear your answers, but in the case of such a serious illness, we're not going to talk about the family, we're going to talk about the disease. I checked: for this disease, access to care is extremely complicated in Benin, even for a family with average incomes. I'm not talking about the more precarious people. That must still be a question for us. If such a serious illness affecting two children hospitalized in Belgium does not allow for a right of residence, what makes it possible under Article 9ter? That was the purpose of my question. It is worth clarifying this article 9ter and working somewhat on the definition of serious illness and the availability of care, not on their accessibility – a very broad concept.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u41	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Safai's 55012716C and 55012717C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u42	Mr Secretary of State, I have already asked you to shorten the procedures during the discussion of your policy paper and you have confirmed that you are working on this. With shorter procedures there is a humane asylum policy and the costs are lower, because people need to be provided with less time. An external audit of the asylum and migration services would be carried out in order to optimise its functioning and improve cooperation and thus the functioning of the entire asylum, migration and reception chain. The purpose of these audits is to address the possible pain points and thus to speed up procedures. Mr Secretary of State, how long is the asylum procedure at the CGVS at the moment? How much behind is it? I am aware that migratory flows are difficult to predict, but when do you expect the CGIS to reach the target of a maximum asylum procedure of 6 months? When will the external audits start exactly? What other measures have already been taken to speed up procedures and to speed up file handling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u43	Mr Vandenput, with faster procedures, we can partly overcome many problems. After all, it is difficult to work on return if the procedures run long, it is difficult to pursue a strong integration policy if the procedures run long, and it is difficult to strengthen our services and reduce their workload if there are delays and too few staff to deal with such dossiers. Faster procedures will therefore have a very large impact on the entire asylum chain. The average lead time of files in 2020 was 213 calendar days from the submission of the file by the Foreign Affairs Office and 369 calendar days from the date of registration of the request, including the procedure in the Foreign Affairs Office. So we are still very far from our ambition and from what we can regard as a normal lead time. Hence the importance of investing in staff and my frustration that this has happened too little in recent years and that at certain times even savings have been made. The working stock of the Commissioner-General is currently 12,663 files. In this connection, we consider that 8.463 dossiers are lagging behind. 4,200 files can be considered as normal working stock. In 2019 it was decided to strengthen the Commissioner-General. The selection and formation obviously take some time. Additional staff were recruited in the second half of 2019 and in the first months of 2020. You will not be surprised that the impact of the covid pandemic has delayed the action plan for reducing delays. A two- to two-and-a-half-year timing was set for resolving the backlog, subject, of course, to a further impact of covid and of the future influx. Unfortunately, I have no influence on those two phenomena. The same problem is also being faced in the neighbouring countries. As I have always stressed, I want to ensure not only faster procedures, but also quality procedures. In this sense, it is not possible and not appropriate to speed up the process of catching up. It is necessary that we examine each dossier individually and thoroughly. It is possible to do so individually and thoroughly, on a case-by-case basis, and in the meantime to move forward. The asylum authorities have always been able to deal with delays in a relatively short time, thanks, among other things, to additional recruitment and additional efforts by these bodies. I'll do everything I can to get rid of the backlog. In this respect, I can count on my administration, which has done a very good job in recent months in particularly difficult circumstances. My cabinet is also fully engaged in the start-up of the audit, which was already mentioned in my policy statement. Several discussions have already been held with organisations in order to obtain the best possible picture of the current operation. In the coming week there will be talks with my services themselves. As it is intended to have the audit carried out externally, a call for tenders will be issued for this purpose. My intention is to start the audit this spring. The exact research questions have not yet been identified, but the different work processes of the asylum and migration services will be reviewed. The exchange of information between services will also be examined. Finally, there will also be a more detailed examination of the content of certain services, in accordance with the coalition agreement. In the meantime, additional resources are being provided for the reinforcement that is to come, so that the delay can be resolved in the shortest possible time. In the medium term, it is in any case intended to achieve a serious strengthening. Hence my answer to Mr Francken's question about the additional resources that the government has planned. That's not for nothing. This is primarily intended to substantially strengthen our services so that procedures can proceed much faster. The operation is closely monitored. Additional measures will be taken if necessary. Underneath, you can understand additional reinforcements. We will be able to use them to overcome the backlog, which I find difficult, particularly politically speaking, because the administration is working very hard. That's one of my first ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u44	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the clear answer. I am also a little puzzled by the delays in the files. Given the situation with the pandemic, that's understandable. I understand that there was also a delay in 2017 and 2018. There were savings at the time. So you have a lot to do with your administration, but you're a man with a plan. I am truly convinced that you will be able to do so with your services. We need to look not only at the procedure at the CGVS, but at the whole chain. As soon as people have to leave the territory, we need to get there faster. We must ensure that they return to their country of origin more quickly. We must also ensure that the aviation police can follow, while the lead times in the closed centres are reduced. We will optimize the entire chain with lots of oil and lubricant and shorter procedures. I am truly convinced that if we shorten those procedures, we can pursue a more humane asylum and migration policy. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u45	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, in Sint-Niklaas there has been an asylum centre on the Castle Street in the city centre for many years. In a full asylum crisis, a temporary centre was established in 2015 on the former military site Westakkers. The current government has positive plans for it. I also asked Minister Verlinden about these plans here in committee last week, in particular about the future of the military quarter. It appears that a police school will be set up in the military domain. The site can thus get a very good destination. The question is, of course, to what extent these plans are compatible with the temporary asylum centre currently set up on the site. Mr Secretary of State, will the temporary asylum centre disappear? How long can it be retained on the site? My questions are very specific in that sense. How many refugees are currently housed in the Westakkers shelter? What are the plans for the temporary asylum centre on the former site? Basically, the school comes next to it, but actually the police plans are wider and wants to be able to fill out the entire site as a training centre, if I may believe your fellow Minister Verlinden. How will the decision-making process proceed? Has there been any consultation with those responsible for Fedasil and the Red Cross, on the one hand, and Home Affairs, on the other? How will the follow-up process proceed in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u46	Mr President, Mr Buysrogge, at present the Westakkers centre has 440 reception places in a capacity of 450 places. As my colleague Verlinden had indicated, the intention is to have the site put into operation by the integrated police and start exercises there, while the site will be further developed in the coming years. The Red Cross Flanders and the police have already had a first consultation, which clearly indicated that sufficient time will be allocated for a transition. Detailed planning will be defined in more detail in the coming weeks in consultation with all relevant actors. So I cannot give you any further information on the precise planning at this time. I can only inform you that all the actors concerned are now aware and around the table, and that the precise planning will still be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u47	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply, which leads me to conclude that we are in a temporary transitional situation, with the temporary asylum centre in Westakkers disappearing within a short time to be determined. That is healthy, because I do not think it would be desirable to set up a training school right next to an asylum centre, which teaches about molotov cocktails, about maintaining public order and where shooting exercises are organized. I look forward to further discussions between the actors concerned and will not fail to question you again shortly to see how this further transition can be done in a good way for everyone. After all, the asylum centre and its staff have already done an excellent job in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u48	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 5 November last, we were able to read in your general policy note that your government rightly regretted that our country is too often subject to infringement proceedings and commits itself, in particular, to correct this, to transpose the European directives quickly and correctly. I would like to speak with you about one of those directives, the implementation of which, at least in part, is still lacking today, namely Directive 2009/52 of the European Parliament and of the Council, commonly known as the Directive on Sanctions, in particular Article 13.4. On page 15 of the government note, the trainers stated that the fight against social dumping remained one of their priorities. From this point of view, it seems to me rather curious that your general policy note does not mention the full transposition of the Sanctions Directive, which should allow workers in an irregular situation to lodge complaints against an abusive employer and to combat social dumping. Today, those exploited in a situation of irregular residence, engaged in the place of registered workers, do not file a complaint, for fear of suffering the consequences, including detention or expulsion. As a result, legal services find it difficult to bring cases before the Labour Court. It is therefore essential that Article 13.4 of the Sanctions Directive be transposed into our legislation, which allows complaints admissible to the labour auditorate to give rise to a residence permit during the duration of the proceedings. Mr Secretary of State, how do you view the role of Article 13.4 of the Sanctions Directive in the fight against social dumping? Do you consider it to be an effective means of combating it? Why has it not yet been transposed, despite Belgium's legal obligation to transpose European directives within the time limit? In the present case, this Directive was to be fully and fully operational by 20 July 2011. How do you explain – although you only recently took office – the considerable delay in transposing this article?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u49	Mr President, Mr De Smet, the fight against social dumping must indeed be strengthened. For this reason, a new residence status, intended to facilitate the complaint procedure, does not seem to me to be a solution. The Sanctions Directive leaves a margin of appreciation to the national legislator. If necessary, transposition into national law is obviously crucial. However, in this case, it is important to mention the margin of appreciation we still have at the national level. Persons illegally staying in our territory who are exploited as workers may use the residence procedure which has been introduced to protect, for example, victims of economic exploitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u50	Secretary of State, I will reply to you by way of professional testimony, because I was director of Myria before I became a Member of Parliament. For now, it's not working. Myria is one of the organizations that can receive such complaints. At the time, we received an absolutely ridiculous number of them because of a failure to implement the directive. I would like to ask the current management of this body to see how we could nevertheless try to use Belgium's margin of manoeuvre in the implementation of this directive to make it more effective. For the time being, potential beneficiaries simply do not make use of it. This is a pity because it is a matter not only of social dumping but also of fundamental rights and even of combating irregular migration in the best possible way. I will also allow myself to return constructively to you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, I am a bit annoying by asking this question again. Not so long ago, you replied to my similar question that it did not belong to your area of competence. I did not entirely agree with that and found that answer too limited. In any case, I then turned to Minister Verlinden, who gave me an answer, but only as regards the police aspect, namely that there is no immediate need for an additional administrative centre for police tasks. Minister Verlinden has, however, shared my concern. She also does not want to talk about a 'handler' centre and prefers to use another word. I am thinking here of a centre for transit migration, in which we deal with matters in a multidisciplinary way, to ensure that the police can do useful work and roll up the networks. Hence my question to you, only as far as your powers are concerned, about a multidisciplinary approach, for which I also refer to my previous question. I mean a multidisciplinary approach with staff from Bureau C, the MINTEH cell, smuggling magistrates, the Voogdij Department and representatives of the specialised centres. Are you willing to place your services in such a centre in order to be able to move forward in a useful way? What framework do you have in mind? Which of your services would you like to involve? Quid the branches of DVZ and Fedasil among others?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u52	Mr Segers has outlined the situation. I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u53	I appreciate it if Members want things to move forward. Before I start my answer, I would like to add my voice to the comment on the terminology that we should not or should not use. The word 'handling centre' is one of the ugliest words in relation to my powers. I am very pleased that we share that view, together with Mr Verlinden. Words matter, in this too. We're talking about people. Dealing with people doesn't really seem like a way to talk about the issue. Transit migration does, of course, pose challenges on the ground, and both the COTER working group and the consultation with the United Kingdom can bring some progress. Progress is the word. I promise no magical solution. Thinking that we can solve the problem with a few simple tricks is the mistake we made in a not so far past. The problem is, of course, a little more complex. As far as the COTER Working Party on Transit Migration is concerned, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Police usually participate. It is my intention to supplement it with Fedasil, so that the work of the outreach teams can gain awareness and that working arrangements can be made with the police and the DVZ. I also believe that the presence of a magistrate in charge of the investigation of human trafficking and trafficking in human beings is appropriate. Finally, we will seek links with consultative structures at provincial level. The phenomenon of transmigration is very different from region to region. The consultation takes place in a quarterly manner, but it can be done more often if necessary. We need to monitor how the problem evolves and, on that basis, we need to take action. We are not allowed to pin ourselves down at times, although there must be certain fixed moments. Flexibility is therefore possible there. The aim is to ensure that the services coordinate their functioning in this area and facilitate the exchange of relevant information. Whether this leads to a new action plan is not currently being discussed, because of the rather varying nature of the phenomenon, which is difficult to capture in action plans of all kinds, as we have already had. Today, above all, we need action on the ground with all the services that can contribute to it, not only nationally, but also internationally. Consultation with the United Kingdom is also important for tackling transit migration and trafficking in human beings. Belgium is already working with the British government in Zeebrugge. We are therefore grateful to the United Kingdom for the security investments it is already making, such as the supply of drones, manpower and sniffling dogs. The agreement between France and the United Kingdom concerns technical cooperation. In addition to the consultations I had in December with the British Minister for Immigration Enforcement, Mr Philp, my cabinet and the services have regular contacts with the British Embassy and the Migration Service, as well as with the French counterparts. We are examining the extent to which existing agreements, possibly through new political agreements, can be extended, including with other European Member States. That consideration takes place in close cooperation with fellow Minister Verlinden. I have been asked several times about my plans for setting up an administrative centre or a shelter in Zeebrugge. The organisation and construction of an administrative centre is the competence of the police, as stated two weeks ago. If this is being worked on at some point, the Foreign Affairs Office can of course also provide support. Recent history teaches us, with the example of the administrative centre previously established in Steenokkerzeel, that such a centre is not a magical solution. In addition, the opening of an open reception centre for transit migration is not appropriate. This can provide a hotspot for smugglers. We must avoid creating some sort of Calais that doesn't make anyone any better. We need to lead people to the regular circuit. That is why we also want to emphasise the extravagantism that we want to strengthen. This can ensure that people do not follow a dangerous route, but are aware of what protection they can get if they register for it. Such an open reception centre can also be an attraction factor for other migrants. It is important to note that many migrants do not want government support. Many refuse to apply for asylum, even though they are aware that they are receiving shelter from Fedasil in this way. As I said, I am in favour of working with outreach teams. So I will strengthen it in order to tackle transit migration on the ground. They will inform those involved about the possible procedures, the risks of the trip to the United Kingdom and the possibilities of voluntary return, while ensuring that the correct information is provided and that the migrants are reassured in particular. It is also important to work together. In a police operation, both the Foreign Affairs Service and Fedasil should be able to be involved. Collaboration with local initiatives or homeless care is also possible to provide the right information to migrants. That's our job. I have already said that I want to do more than just provide information on websites and in brochures, but from person to person, as we should.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u54	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I very much believe in the approach you have outlined. Words matter, indeed, so also in that regard I am very satisfied. You will no longer use the word 'handling centre' and that will also mean something. I am also very pleased with your commitment to the outreach teams. You were talking about an open center. Just so we're clear, I'm not arguing for that. I call for a centre where the current police duties would be carried out, but supplemented by other services, with an integrated approach. In that sense, I still have a little difference of opinion with you when you leave in the middle or can support DVZ. For me, there is a need for a truly integrated approach with not only DVZ, but also with other services within your competence. By the way, Sp.a doesn't think that's the best way to do it. The Committee agrees with this view and believes that, given that the influx of migrants can be expected to continue for a long time, there is a need for an integrated policy and a uniform approach in the field, which will lead not only to a more humane treatment of the migrants, but also to a more efficient and effective judicial investigation and a better motivation for the integrated police on the phenomenon. We must move away from the policy of pushing forward before, from a purely rotating door policy. We must opt for an approach whereby we deal usefully with the smugglers who, as I said last time, are the evidence. Let's roll up the networks together and get to work with the smugglers who got onto the radar by interception. That's controlled and human, with head and heart. That is the most efficient and that is also good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, I requested the figures on the number of interceptions in Zeebrugge last year from Minister Verlinden. It fluctuates around 200 to 230 interceptions a month. There must therefore be a more integrated approach. I also call for cooperation with the United Kingdom and France. You have also mentioned this and are working hard on it. In this context, I will give you an example, which is also interesting for my fellow Members. My brother-in-law owns a shipping company that transports goods to the United Kingdom. Well, what he was going through when he was driving himself was hallucinating. Just beyond the border in France he had to stop, just like other truck drivers on the bad luck lane, because on top of a bridge over the motorway people threw stones down, after which the police were brought in. My brother-in-law then heard some rumbling in his trailer and when he went to look, it turned out that there were eight transmigrants hiding there. So the stones were thrown with premeditated thought. He was able to throw a person out of his trailer, but because he was afraid of being overpowered, he closed the doors of the trailer again and drove on to Calais. There he asked for help from the French police, but she just let those seven transmigrants go. We do not want such situations, that is really not humane. We are not helping these people, but that is the situation on the ground. So try to work with your colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, because it is not just about Zeebrugge, there are problems in Dunkirk and Calais, among others.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u56	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your flexibility. In the meantime, I also follow the Health Committee, with its own proposal on healthcare professionals. I assume you understand I was expected there, too. My first question is about the DVZ and the restart of special flights for forced return. I read in December that two processed asylum seekers were sent back to Congo with a special flight. It was the first special flight since the outbreak of corona. Are there any special flights scheduled this month? For which persons and to which countries? What initiatives will you take to get the number of cases of forced return in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I am glad that you are also present in this committee. In an ideal world we should not have to use special flights. This is the very last stage we are considering when someone refuses to cooperate. You know the procedure. We'll start with a voluntary return. Then follows the forced return that is also phased out. If all these phases fail, the very last stage we choose is the special flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u58	You also know the cost of forced return compared to voluntary return, a special flight is the most expensive. So I don't like any of them. Unfortunately, we have had to do so in the case of two people who were sent back to Congo. We have communicated on this because it is important to make it clear that when people refuse to cooperate in forced return, there is still a stick behind the door, namely that special flight. The normal forced return is best done by regular scheduled flights. Most cases of forced return take place on regular scheduled flights. It'll cost us less. In almost all cases it works, unfortunately not always. In connection with the resumption of special flights, there is no special flight on the agenda in January from the Belgian side. Belgium will participate wherever possible in flights organised by other states. The important step towards increasing removal in the coming months is to convince certain countries to allow forced return. This is addressed at different levels in the relevant states. I follow this closely myself, in consultation with the Foreign Office. I hope I will have to tell you as few special flights as possible in the coming months. This would mean that we would be able to return as many people as possible who are illegally staying on the territory by means of voluntary return or forced return by regular flights.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u60	Mr Secretary of State, we have discussed before that through the Inter-Ministerial Conference you will raise some issues about parts of your powers which are also at the level of the Länder. When is the first inter-ministerial conference planned in this context? Will you be advocating our proposal to impose integration on family reunification at that inter-ministerial conference? In reply to our question, you said that you would look at our proposal, but that this should be done together with the Länder. Will you order my question there? You also talked about plans to integrate asylum seekers. Will that also be on the agenda for the Inter-Ministerial Conference? What exactly is on the agenda for the Inter-Ministerial Conference? When exactly does it take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u61	Mrs Van Camp, you are asking a question about an important achievement of the first months of this legislature. Although the current government has not been appointed for so long, agreement has already been reached at federal level on the establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. The IMC on migration and integration is important. I assume that all parties, majority and opposition, believe that we should support integration as best we can. Given the shared responsibility at federal and regional level, an IMC can only contribute to better integration of people staying here. As I explained earlier in committee, the Council of Ministers agreed to my proposal, so there is already an agreement at the federal level. The request will be placed on the agenda of the Consultation Committee. The Consultation Committee will set up the IMC officially. Since the Consultation Committee has not yet considered that request, the IMC has not yet been officially established. Obviously, therefore, no date has yet been set for a first meeting. I can only hope that this will happen as soon as possible, because we can make progress as soon as possible. After all, there are no reasons to wait any longer for the creation of the IMC. The current procedure is in accordance with the normal procedure. For the sake of clarity, there is no delay. The reason why I proposed setting up an IMC is because of the fragmentation of powers. Through the IMC, there will be a consultation platform, which will allow different topics to be discussed, so that policy can be coordinated. An efficient, global and coherent policy is in everyone's interest. Each government can participate in the consultation through the IMC, from its own powers and with respect for each other's powers. Different themes can be discussed at the IMC. As an example, I have already mentioned the combined permits and the control of certain conditions of residence. Integration is, of course, also an important issue that can be discussed. Integration is a major policy challenge. If policy can be strengthened in this respect, it is absolutely an added value. I have already been told by the opposition that, as Secretary of State, I am not responsible for integration. That is largely true, although we can also do a number of things at federal level. However, it is only by calling together an IMC that I can ensure that a better policy is developed across the Belgian territory. In one of your previous questions, you referred to my statements on the acquisition of competence in asylum seekers. I am convinced that this acquisition of competence is important, because it can ensure that asylum seekers who are finally allowed to stay here can also get to work immediately. Through work, people are integrated even faster. Also for people who cannot stay here, learning skills is good, because they can use them much faster in their country of origin, especially if we involve them in a story of voluntary return. Learning skills is always useful, either to promote integration or to be able to work faster in the country of origin. I see you shaking no, and I find that amazing, Mrs Van Camp. The buddy project we are now talking about to teach people competences was approved by the previous government during the first four years, with Secretary of State Theo Francken. There may, of course, be differences of opinion within the N-VA Group on the way in which the Department of Asylum and Migration should be managed. In fact, over the last few days and weeks, I can understand that very well. I find it very strange to note that you do not welcome the buddy projects very positively, while this policy was implemented in the previous legislature, fortunately, because I think it is positive by your colleague, Mr Francken. I can only hope that we can convince you in the coming years and that we all believe that skills can be learned, started work and help people who cannot stay here to build a future through voluntary return to the country of origin is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u62	I have given you my honest opinion on this. I don't think it's healthy at all. There is also a difference between buddy projects around asylum centres and real integration. With regard to matters such as learning the language of asylum seekers, the annual figures of your services are just known. The level of protection has fallen, which means that more than 60% of the people who are here as asylum seekers and claim to be refugees are not actually refugees. You yourself admit in articles that you will be returned less than one in five. I have my own opinion and continue to find it problematic. Not you. I also continue to find it problematic that you give such people the signal that there is a future here, by starting to integrate. That is a policy that I absolutely do not support. That's not gonna change at all. Integration, which takes a great deal of effort and time, must be reserved for people who have a right of residence here. If we look at the current migration, it will be a very big challenge. There is enough work to be done without including asylum seekers in this process. In this way, people who do not have a right of residence are given the false hope that they will be able to stay here. That is my opinion on this and it will not change.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, I come back to the budget discussions in plenary, which dealt with the increasing number of asylum applications. Meanwhile, last month's figures are in and they are down by 2020 in globo. However, I find the number of applications still quite high, especially in these corona times and certainly in comparison with other countries. I asked you what your explanation was for that. You said in plenary that you were actually surprised. You then figured out exactly how that happened, and if I understood correctly, you were planning to set up, at the request of the PS campaigns, to attract asylum seekers from abroad. Do you not think it is better to put these campaigns on hold in these corona times? Especially after the recent outbreak in the closed center of Bruges, you still have enough work on the shelf. How do you see that now?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u64	I'm always happy when I get the opportunity to correct some things. The number of asylum applications is not exceptionally high at the moment. If I were a politician who believes he can mislead the population, I could have even shared nice graphs of the historical low of the number of asylum applications in 2020: "State Secretary Mahdi is State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, and we are reaching a historic low." But I think the people are a little more sensible. I believe that the population is also aware that this low point has to do with COOVID-19. I believe that the population is smart enough to realise that it is not illogical that the number of requests from March and April last year, when there were a lot of restrictions to move, was almost zero, and that this then rose to more than zero. People also know that this is happening in all the other Member States and that this may have something to do with covid. I can only hope that people who are politically active, and that is not addressed to you, Mrs Van Camp, but to everyone who is involved in asylum and migration, do not underestimate the population. I can only rely on the reactions I get, and they make it very clear that the population realizes what impact covid has, and that this is an explanation. So I will not say that 2020, thanks to Secretary of State Mahdi, gave the figure X and that 11,550 fewer people have applied for asylum by Mr Mahdi. It has nothing to do with that. I can hope that at the end of the legislature people will say that thanks to Secretary of State Mahdi the files have been dealt with much faster, there is much less delay and asylum seekers get a much faster answer, and when this answer is negative, the return policy has also been strengthened. That's all I can hope for. What I can also hope is that you do not claim that, at the request of the PS, I intend to attract asylum seekers from abroad. That's not correct. Just as you have asked a number of questions about collective regularisation and you have received a clear answer to this, I will give you my answer once again. This isn't right. We do not intend to attract asylum seekers from abroad. There are no campaigns to attract asylum seekers. What I will do is to respect the European commitment to resettle asylum seekers and refugees. In this respect, I can understand that there may be disagreements with your party colleague and former Secretary of State, Theo Franken, who at least confirmed the European ambition in words. So that ambition was there, but it wasn't realized. I therefore believe that this is also a shared ambition of the N-VA Group, but I may be wrong about that. I notice that sometimes there are differences of opinion. I also think that our investment and our commitment to relocation and resettlement was a sensible decision of the previous government and that this is also the decision that we now have to take with this government to give people perspective in Belgium. So it's not about illegal entry. If you wish, you can ask me the question again next time and I will give you the same answer again in the hope that it will become clear at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u65	I think this is a punishment, because I asked the question during the budget debate. You replied in the affirmative that you would indeed do so. You would also organise campaigns abroad to remind asylum seekers of their rights. The intention of the PS was to attract them. You confirmed that, but apparently you're only doing that in front of the PS. When they're gone, you'll change your answer. I will not fail to add that answer, which is also included in the written report, to that answer, because I really do not think this is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u66	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to hear from you what progress has been made on the issue of residence. You have stated that you are busy with a solution and will soon come out with it. You confirmed that in December 2020. What step-by-step plan have you worked out for that? What concrete steps have already been taken? What's your plan of action? Where do you stand with that? When can we expect a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, the government agreement makes it very explicit that the government will take measures to prevent the removal from being made impossible by manifest lack of cooperation. I quote literally the coalition agreement. To this end, I would like to look openly within the government for a supported proposal based on consultation with the various stakeholders and with regard to guaranteeing fundamental rights. This will be a long-term exercise, for which the Council of State gave its opinion in November 2020 on the draft legislation on residential entrances, taking into account the concerns raised therein. Making it possible to implement an expulsion measure also for foreigners without legal residence who clearly refuse to cooperate is, of course, an important element in my return policy, which is also clearly reflected in my policy paper. I am committed once again to making a proposal to the government during the current policy period, which seeks an alternative solution to the problem of aliens refusing to leave their homes without legal residence. On the basis of the questions you have already asked me about this, I can assume that you share that concern and that you also believe that we should find an answer to the problem as soon as possible. I'm glad to see that. We were able to see that during the previous legislature. Even then, several parties made it clear that we need to find an answer. I have to say to my frustration and probably to yours that it was not possible to find a solution at that time. I can only hope that in my own way within the government, with respect for fundamental rights and understanding of all possible stakeholders, I can seek a solution that serves society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u68	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I am curious. After all, I do not hear any concrete steps or concrete progress. We will certainly continue to follow up the dossier and continue to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u69	Mr President, I am sorry to speak late. I had to go to the Health Committee for important votes, so I could not be there to ask my question about vaccination and hear your answers. I shall of course be aware of this in the report of today's debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u70	Mr President, Mr Rigot, with regard to the deaths on migration routes, the question of migration creates extremely complex problems which cannot be solved only by creating additional legal routes of migration. This migration issue requires a comprehensive approach that includes some elements. First, consideration must be given to the development of a policy that has an impact on various areas, including the factors that drive people to leave. That is one of the elements I mention in each of my contacts with the countries of origin. I have already had contacts with Morocco, Algeria, Egypt and Tunisia, where we are talking about the return policy, but the point that I care about is to clarify the reasons why people leave. We need to discuss this and find a solution at both European and Belgian level. We also have the means to ensure that these countries are strengthened, so that people also have a future in their country and do not need to look for a future elsewhere. Secondly, there is the fight against trafficking in human beings, criminal networks and networks. This element is also included in my policy note, as is the case for all the Secretaries of State for Asylum and Migration. This is an extremely important element. Thirdly, important aspects make it possible to pursue a policy in favour of people who are in real need of protection. They must be identified and assisted through the strengthening of the concept of protection in the region and resettlement. Finally, there is the development of additional legal channels but to be placed in a broader and more comprehensive approach. These aspects must be implemented at European Union level. Hence the importance of achieving the European Pact. The Migration Code, whose reform methodology is being finalized, will not create new migration channels. However, asylum bodies participate in European consultations on additional channels, in particular for persons in need of international protection. Here, the new ideas and good practices of the different Member States are exchanged. For example, next Thursday, experts from our administrations will participate in the Contact Group Legal Migration organised by the European Commission. Asylum authorities are also examining calls for projects at European level, either to use existing routes for a wider target group or to create additional routes. I am not informed of the results of judicial investigations into trafficking and/or trafficking in human beings. I am sure that my colleagues from Justice and the Interior are doing a good job. Of course, we will work together on this issue. For example, recently, a consultation has been held between the various competent departments on the subject of Afghan minors who would be referred to the arrival centre in Brussels. With regard to cooperation with the United Kingdom, Belgium will follow the agreed direction within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, your answer is clear, precise and very detailed. Thank you. She's in line with what I was hoping for. As you said, it's the need not to look for a single lead. I fully agree with you. The first element is to ensure that those who choose to leave their country can be safe in their country and that they are provided with all the conditions of democracy and respect that will allow them not to have to make such a renunciation and not to be forced to leave and come to our country in extremely precarious conditions, simply to live.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-01-19-definitief-55-commissie-ic337x.u72	Questions No 55012230C and No 55012560C by Mrs Van Camp and questions No 55012071C and No 55012675C by Mr Rigot were postponed to a future meeting.
