ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u1	Welcome to this exceptionally convened meeting of the Committee on the Interior. I welcome the Secretary of State Mahdi and thank him for his physical presence on this committee. There is an exchange of views on the suspension of the hunger strike by people without papers. The Secretary of State will first make a small presentation and then the questions submitted will be dealt with. Since it is about an exchange of views, any political group can then agree to ask any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you colleagues for being here. Colleagues, on 21 July, one of the biggest hunger strikes in our country ended. Approximately 475 people in irregular residence have taken action to be regularized. For 60 days, they were on hunger strike. During these 60 days, but also before, I remained in dialogue with them, with the undocumented themselves, with the organizations that supported them or that defended their interests. This dialogue has always been respectful and my message has been very clear from day one. No, there will be no collective regulation! And no, the current policy will not be changed! And I have always explained to them why: why I think that the current policy is correct, why I think that the current policy is human; why I am trying to speed up existing procedures or to give certain categories, such as stateless persons, a separate residence procedure; and why also I think it is unfair to treat the demands of hunger strikers differently from the demands of others without papers. This message, I continued to repeat it until the last day of their action. After several conversations that started even before there was ever a hunger strike, I was very relieved that at some point the decision was taken to stop the life-threatening hunger strike on 21 July. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed and also had the courage to make it very clear that there is no point in continuing the action. So I was relieved, because I'm not happy or triumphalistic. There are no winners in this story. After all, there has been a great deal of human suffering. Too much human suffering. In these situations, we must send the right message and, above all, not give false hope. That makes a difference. I am also very pleased that I have taken on the task, which is actually my responsibility in itself, to continue to speak honestly with the hunger strikers and to make clear what the policy stands for. This is not evident when 23,500 orders are given each year to leave the territory. We can simply limit ourselves to that and not try to explain it. Yet that is also my job: to explain why there are rules, why those rules cannot change on the basis of a hunger strike and why the current rules are the right rules. I have been very marked by the escalation of this situation in recent weeks. It is good that we, together with civil society and the representatives of hunger strikers, have been able to convince people that collective regularisation is not a solution and that the existing procedures are correct, humane and, moreover, they will remain so. It is also a good thing that we are here together today so that I can answer the questions of Members of Parliament. I've been reading a lot these past few days. I really like reading books, but also what's on social media. I also like to read what's in the papers. I have read insinuations about decisive meetings, about crucial actors, about concessions, about agreements above and below the table, about secret deals. It was a political thriller I read, perhaps very interesting to read, but unfortunately, for some perhaps, often false. This exchange of views is therefore mainly intended to put things right, because I am not a politician who works on the basis of lists and benefits given to someone under the table. I'm not. I made that very clear in a conversation with the hunger strikers. Some asked if there was anything possible, it remains between us. It's a human reaction to trying to build a sustainable future for itself, but that's not how I do politics. There will be no collective solution for people on hunger strike. Their individual applications will be assessed on the basis of current and long-standing regulations and policy. The policy will therefore not be changed and their files will not be judged differently from those of other applicants. Applications for humanitarian regularisation are made on the basis of Article 9a of the Aliens Act. In the meantime, I have already learned that there are parties who very much like to talk about regularisation by talking about Article 9b, whereas they are actually talking about 9a. Soit, it is clear that in the area of migration and regularisation we have to explain things properly, because there are often a lot of uncertainties, or perhaps a lack of information. The current regularisation policy will therefore be applied. I read in the newspapers that we will take into account all the elements in the file, such as length of stay, family ties, ties with Belgium. Yeah, that's not news flash, that's exactly what we do in all the files. We'll take that into account, among other things. We always take all the elements into account. One element weighs more heavily than the other. It is the set of elements, all taken together, that determines whether an application is finally approved or not. Not on the basis of fixed criteria, but on the basis of a number of elements. That has always been the case, and I see that it is important to point that out again so that everyone is with us. As regards the conditions of admissibility, there is no derogation from the conditions of admissibility which already exist. This means that the fee must also be paid. Today, however, the Foreign Affairs Office is always looking at the substance of a file when the eligibility condition for the fee and proof of identity is met. A file containing sufficient positive elements on its substance is thus immediately approved on the substance, without a separate decision on admissibility being taken. In the case of a file with insufficient positive elements, sometimes a decision on inadmissibility is taken because of the absence of the exceptional circumstances, and sometimes a refusal on the substance. That is the current practice, a practice that has existed for a long time and which people who have been working on this theme for some time should normally know very well. I am pleased to be able to clarify this and to emphasise that nothing will change that. As you know, I have tried in different ways to make the hunger strikers understand that if they thought they would be involved in regularization, they would have to submit an individual application to that effect. To this end, in cooperation with the City of Brussels, a neutral zone was also established where they could obtain information on existing residence procedures, and discuss their individual situation with a staff member of the Office for Foreigners. In this way, they can better assess whether a new application for regularization makes sense to them. The aim is not to send everyone an application for regularization if, after a discussion with the Office of Foreigners, one realizes that, for the person himself, it is of no use to do so. You have to be able to inform the person. The City of Brussels shall ensure that the application can be made on the spot. I am pleased that the activists finally agreed to this request. Over the last two days, there has been enormous interest in the neutral zone. That is also not abnormal when people are looking for information. It is also not abnormal when there is often a lot of disinformation. There seem to be a lot of rumours going around, such as that perhaps there would be some form of collective regulation for those who register in the neutral zone. I have been clear from day one and I am again here today. That is certainly not the case. In order not to give people false hope, the neutral zone is closed to the general public from Monday. Only the people involved in the action can go there for information and guidance, which is not insignificant given the circumstances in which they have been present for several weeks. The counseling must be part psychosocial. Those people have given up and may have received information that gave them the impression that another regularisation policy was being pursued. The least we can and should do is to inform them correctly. Their files will be handled by the Foreign Office in accordance with current policy. It is not always obvious, because it is felt that the people concerned have lived on false hopes for a long time and still partly do so today. I can understand that some are trying to convince hunger strikers to leave the sites, because there might be a solution for them. We also have a duty to be clear about this. As far as asylum and migration are concerned, it may not always be easy at human level to make it clear to some people that there is no possibility for them to stay on the territory. However, this is part of a policy of migration rules to be respected. I have also read about so-called deals now and of my predecessors in the light of Article 9b of the Foreign Law. I cannot comment on predecessors. I can only speak out about myself. All applications will be assessed by the Foreign Office. The medical residence procedure is registered in the law. I didn't invent it. This procedure exists and can be initiated for serious patients for whom the necessary treatment is not available in the country of origin. If an application is submitted with a medical certificate, that certificate shall be assessed and the Department of Foreign Affairs shall decide on the basis of the advice of a doctor. So I do not decide on this either. The rules of the law must be followed. So I do not just hand out papers, as I could read in social media, and neither do I choose to issue papers on the basis of Article 9b. My services judge that on the advice of a doctor according to the rules of the law. The rules are what they are, even in that respect. No one gets special treatment, the rules have to be followed. I can only hope that we do not experience a new hunger strike and that we can put this painful period behind us. I hope, above all, that we will not be triumphal in any way about the current situation. It was painful for me to see. I have had a lot of conversations with hunger strikers who were really convinced that the hunger strike would eventually lead politicians to a certain policy. It is not obvious to have to repeat more than ten times, understanding that it is not easy for those involved, that the rules will not change and that the rules are humane and good. For certain things, politics must do better. For example, people are waiting far too long until three years for an answer to their application. That's because we haven't invested in our services for years. Here in committee I already explained my recent visit to the Netherlands, where I found that all the dossiers in all possible areas are being dealt with much faster. If I compare that with the investments in our administration to make them as strong as possible to give people a quick answer, then we'll see the difference immediately. I therefore hope that we will be able to respond quickly. People must not be hopeless, but those who wait for years become hopeless. So I will do everything in my power to ensure that people receive an answer quickly in the coming months and years. We must all work together to ensure that people do not become hopeless, even by not giving people the feeling that policies may move in a different direction, as we know perfectly well that this is not the case. We must also be convinced ourselves of what we are doing, because what we are doing is humane; what we are doing is right, and that will not change anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to your questions and to what I will be able to read over the next few days and weeks. I am also very pleased with the opportunity offered today, so that I can offer further clarification in the policy we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u3	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your statement. Colleagues, I have a technical announcement to make. I just heard the video wasn't gonna work. ICT is working to overcome this problem. The members of the committee can of course follow via Zoom. Mr Van Hees reports that the video may not work at www.dekamer.be, but it does work at www.lachambre.be. So there's something good about the federal level. We are going to deal with the questions first. The members of the political groups can then join. I call Mr Van Langenhove.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, the citizens have followed the way in which this dossier has been handled over the past few weeks. We are doing our job here to provide citizens with transparency. It is therefore crucial that they can also have consequences. I see that it is now in order, a sign from above that we can move on. Mr Secretary of State, you have been pointing an accusing finger at the opposition parties Flemish Interest and N-VA on Twitter in recent days. Of course, this meeting has already been preceded by a number of things. In fact, you were literally talking about poke and bullshit, just because we are openly asking questions about the sudden handling of this hunger strike. In any case, your attitude towards Members of this House who only do their job is reprehensible. That is all the more true now that many of our questions have been justified. We have now learned that the world's top doctor says: "certainties are required that individual files will be looked at in good conditions." Others are talking about a verbal commitment from you, including Daniel Alliet. However, you have just said that you are not a politician of deals under the table and that you are not going to give those hunger strikers special treatment. What exactly is that about? Are you right, or are those other people right, those who say the opposite? It might be interesting to put those two visions next to each other because they are quite contradictory. You should also speak to your spokesperson, who stated in De Morgen that lists of the people who took part in the hunger strike are being drawn up. Why do we draw up lists if these people will not receive treatment other than the hundreds of illegal immigrants who were drumming at the entrance to your so-called neutral zone today? In the meantime, apparently it's already closed because of chaos and tumult. We are of course not strangers to the world, the previous collective regularizations were also sold as individual and so to speak exceptionally. We warned you about this and it has already come true. Instead of falsely accusing us of poke and bullshit, you'd better accuse certain other people. You could, for example, accuse the French-speaking government parties of stooping, like the Flemish collaborators of Green, the Communists and their satellite organizations. They undermine any policy of expulsion, sabotage it and make it impossible. They support and encourage these actions, because they fit into their political agenda. By increasing the political pressure they encouraged the hunger strikers to continue. These organizations and parties encouraged people to go on hunger strike and even assisted them in sewing their mouths. Perhaps you should point the finger at them, rather than accuse Members who do their jobs and ask critical questions of being fired. Do you know who you can accuse of bullshit? You. After all, where is your announced alternative to residential entrances? None of that came into the house. Where is your announced increased capacity in the closed return centers? None of that has been realized yet. Where are your visa sanctions, your extra reading mission agreements, your increase in return rates? None of it came into the house. Where's your "never admit to blackmail"? Again, nothing came of it. So if there is one scientist, Mr Mahdi, it is you, not the members of the opposition. I recently spoke to some of the emergency services, specifically the fire department. It was repeatedly called up by the World Doctors organization, without there actually being a direct need for that hunger strike. For the organisers of the hunger strike, the screaming sirens proved to be particularly important as support for their action in the eyes of journalists, photographers and camera crews. Often there was no one to take to the hospital. In the meantime, of course, capacity was addressed, with the result that longer queues were created for people in real need. The logical consequence of this is enormous frustration on the part of the aid workers. Perhaps a lot of aid workers have addressed me for that very reason. Some activists were carried to the hospital car in front of the cameras, moaning and seemingly extremely weakened. On the hospital emergency department, outside the range of the cameras, most of them were suddenly miraculously refurbished. Blood tests show they weren't as weakened as they wanted us to believe. They took sugar water every day. The firefighters were instructed to be discreet and certainly not to talk to the press, because that might, so to speak, encourage racism. I am not saying this to dismiss the suffering or misery of those people as trivial, but to make you realize that the NGOs and the Communist PVDA doctors with whom you have negotiated have in reality just staged a show to influence politics. The government parties have walked in there, whether consciously or not. The PS, Ecolo and Green have played along. You've been blackmailed to save your political career. If you really want to help these illegal migrants, then you should above all ensure that they can no longer be abused by perfide, extreme left-wing organisations as a crowbar for their open border policy. Mr Secretary of State, I come to my questions. How many hunger strikers and how many others have already arrived in your neutral zone? Do you have a view of the composition of that group and of the group of hunger strikers? You say that sometimes people have to wait far too long for an answer. I quote: 'If you have to wait two years for a regularization application, that is not true'. That's for sure. Other waiting times are, by the way, far too long. What are you going to do to put an end to the endless and useless appeals procedures, as well as similar procedures for return? If a person is given an order to leave the territory and has not complied with it for two years, then that is not true either. What are you going to do to achieve an effective and efficient return policy? Indeed, the increased commitment to voluntary return has long proven its unworkability. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the master plan for closed return centres? What about the promised visa sanctions against unwilling third countries? Don't give me the verdict again this time very soon. How long do we have to wait for concrete policy actions? You promised the activists that you would make a very quick response to those involved. What date do you have in mind? The files of those hunger strikers, and of those who have spent the last few days and hours on hunger strikers, will be dealt with as a priority, we read. What no one is talking about is what you are going to do with those who do not appear to be eligible for a regularisation campaign. Will you also make their effective return to the country of origin a priority? Are you going to make them disappear into illegality again, among the 150,000 other illegals? You have said that there will be no new instructions, but what does the current instruction mean in concrete terms? Even now, we are asking ourselves questions about the hunger strike of some activists. Apparently, the majority that was brought to the hospital yesterday has already returned. How many people are left in the hospital and in intensive care? How many persons will be eligible for temporary medical regularisation? If you don't know that, you may also make an assessment. The hunger strike may be over, but the problem is not solved at all. One question that remains is what will you do with the potentially 150,000 illegals........................................................................................................................................................ Are you going to pursue an active search policy, including residential entrances and an effective return policy? Are you going to wait until they meet the criteria in the existing instruction? Are you waiting for another blackmail operation to come? According to priest Daniel Alliët, there is a so-called verbal commitment. According to Alliet, it was decided to suspend the admissibility phase in the examination of an application for humanitarian regularisation. As a result, the parties concerned would no longer have to meet certain formal requirements. Each file will be dealt with on the substance, including applications that were never declared admissible before because the person could not provide a valid ID or has a criminal record due to an unpaid fine, can now be investigated. There would also have been mention of some elements that would play a part in applications such as the length of stay, local anchoring, family ties and integration. For medical reasons, hunger strikers' files will be given priority and examined in the short term. Can you confirm that news? If we are well informed, criteria such as vulnerability and anchoring would not have been used so far to give someone a residence permit. In De Standaard we read again that these two criteria will play a role in these cases. This would mean that the instruction would change de facto. I would have liked to have had some clarity about that. Mr Secretary of State, is it true that the government has considered imposing medical supervision on the hunger strikers? Why didn't the government go ahead and evacuate the Beguinage Church? I would like to thank you for the clarity you will undoubtedly provide in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for being here. I think it is important that you clarify this. It seems logical to me that this breakthrough in the dossier raises questions in the media, but also in Parliament. It is our constitutional task to control the government's work. We're trying to do the right thing. I'm trying to do it my way. I think it is important that this is done in a good way. I'm not saying I'm always right, but it's true that I'm trying to do my job properly. This is why I sent an e-mail to the chairman of this committee asking for this committee to be convened so that we could exchange views in Parliament rather than on Twitter or other media. I have a few things to say. Mr Van Langenhove has already mentioned a number of things, but I have a few additional points. I have a feeling of déjà vu. I was sitting here with Mrs. Dedonder yesterday. It was then about General Boucké's resignation. The general himself says he's been fired and Mrs. Dedonder says he wasn't fired, that he resigned himself. I thought that was a strange situation and that doesn't get cleared up, because soldiers are used to keeping their mouths shut anyway. That is not bad in itself, but it is annoying, because one cannot find out what the truth is and what played right. I think it's a strange situation now, too. I certainly want to take your word for it, but what is said by the representatives of the hunger strikers totally contradicts that. Mr Van Langenhove said it, they say that the conditions of admissibility will indeed be suspended, that it has been agreed orally that you will suspend them. You're saying this isn't true, that you're not gonna do that. Other things are also said, including in De Standaard, a newspaper which one may think is checking its sources. You say you haven't been contacted for a response. This is contradicted by De Standaard himself. I assume they're listening. I do not know the fine thing about this and I am not going to speak about it either, but that is, of course, very annoying. After all, how can I know what was agreed when I read that in De Standaard, a newspaper trying to bring quality, I suppose? You say here a day later that this is not true, that it is not a good thing. That's annoying. I get a bit of a déjà vu feeling with yesterday. We're trying to do our job, but we're probably never gonna know. So I'm going to go over a few things with you, to get it all aligned. First, it says in De Standaard, I quote: "Tuesday retired priest Daniel Alliet, lawyers Alexis Deswaef and Marie-Pierre De Buisseret, and Mehdi Kassou of BXLRefugees moved to the cabinet of the director of the Foreign Affairs department, Freddy Roosemont. He was assisted in turn by Dirk Van den Bulck, new-born mediator and Commissioner-General for refugees and stateless persons. Then at least four hours was spoken, frequently interrupted by calls to the Mahdi cabinet." Can you confirm that? Did that meeting take place? Were you permanently aware of that? What exactly was discussed there? I will continue with my quote: 'It did not come up with a proposal for the hunger strikers, but late in the evening the delegation was invited again for consultation in the Mahdi cabinet, the next morning'. Is this true? Has there been a Wednesday morning meeting in your cabinet? How long did that take? What was discussed there? Is it true that there has been a verbal commitment? These are important government meetings. In politics things are moving very fast, then there was a government crisis in which the government, especially the PS and Ecolo, put you under very heavy pressure. Their ministers would withdraw if the Prime Minister did not take over the file from you. That's not just a crisis. That's a government crisis. You've been put under a lot of pressure. You're saying you didn't let the situation get out of hand. In the newspaper it was reported that sixty people were transferred for urgent medical attention. When will something get out of hand for you? The hunger strike began with about two hundred people and ended with almost five hundred people. A lot of people were taken to the hospital. There was a government crisis. Then the situation got pretty out of hand. That's my personal definition of getting out of control. You obviously have another one. You always felt that you were in control, that there was nothing going on and that things didn't get out of hand. If the PS, such a large party with such a tradition, in an incredible Walloon crisis, plays the game of hunger strikers so hard that it demands the Prime Minister to take over from you, the situation is not entirely under control. What was said at that four-hour meeting in your cabinet? That strike suddenly breaks after a government crisis, after heavy negotiations. It's normal for me to wonder what was agreed then. That's all I wanted to say. You'll react that I have to stop stoking and screaming, because that would be populist. I regret that. I've seen you give very strong replies, even on things I write. That's fantastic. You're verbally very strong, but that was a little misplaced. After all, I didn't have any bad intentions with that. You were probably under a lot of pressure and the last few weeks had been intense. Emotionally, such a hunger strike is not obvious either. I do try to do my job, and such remarks are inappropriate. I would like to make a few more points. You say that there is absolutely no primacy. I suspect the people of BXLRefugees and the hunger strikers are listening in. I hope they got it right. So there will be absolutely no priority. But something doesn't add up. There are a few points I would like further information on. First of all, about that neutral zone. You say, and I was really unaware of that last week, that the neutral zone was also open to non-hungry strikers. I really didn't get that. I have asked a number of colleagues. Everyone thought that this neutral zone had been opened to welcome those hunger strikers and to look at the files together with the officials of the Foreign Office, etc. I didn't know that that area was open to other people in illegal residence who could come knocking every day between 11:00 and 3:00 p.m. That was never clear to me. To be honest, I never understood that. Apparently, it was. Of course, that has a suction effect, because that goes around. You say there's all kinds of stories going around. All the other parties participate in this. I do not think even a political party has to say anything about it to know that hundreds of people are going there. The NGOs and their own environments will also call and text to say: you can go there, and you can speak to an official of the Foreign Office. 'Cause they're over there. There is an official of the city of Brussels, I believe, and an official of the Department of Foreign Affairs. No one else can. One cannot speak to an official of the Foreign Affairs Office if one is in illegal residence. It can't be. You need to call a call center for that. One has to go through a lawyer for that. But such an official speaks by appointment, or just walks in with the DVZ officials on the regularization service, that's impossible. It's a good thing it can't, because that would give something. Now you say that you will close that possibility, because it creates chaos. We saw the footage this morning. I couldn't. That was way too much. I didn't mean to. Things got out of hand. Only people who took part in the hunger strike are allowed to come. And so, of course, you must have a list of who they are first. Now I read that your spokesperson communicates that that list is being requested. It's only now that the list is requested? If you ask these organisations, with their political agenda, to make a list, you will see something! To what extent is such a list reliable? What are the criteria? Is it true what your spokeswoman says? I suppose so. We've been asked to provide a list. Those people are allowed to make an appointment. Is that appointment also taking place in the neutral zone or is it going to be on the phone? Is that still physically open, can one go there? Can one have a conversation with an official of the Foreign Office, a regularization service? If the answer to these very specific questions is yes, it is preferential treatment. After all, all the other illegals, families or families with children, who just do their thing, go black every day, but haven't had a hunger strike in the last few weeks, no foreign affairs official can speak. You say that it is not a matter of preferential treatment, but that is not correct. That is why I am asking for clarity. You say journalists make a lot of it. However, since I have not been able to speak to you in the last few days, I can only continue with what I read. On the front page of De Morgen I read: "Hungerstakers get faster treatment." Again, that article quotes your spokesperson, who literally says that there will be a faster treatment for files submitted from the hunger striker group. You have only just asked for a list of them, so it is only now that you know who is on them. The question arises as to whether that list is still correct. Maybe some would add a brother or sister, a uncle or a cousin. With lists it's always careful, I can say, I've had a lot of trouble with that and I've learned my lesson. I therefore found it strange to hear that a list is being drawn up, because that will immediately be a disaster. When drawing up that list, the demand for any control mechanism arises. Who's gonna check that list? How will you know if the names on the list are actually names of hunger strikers? Do they have to look skinny, do you add a scale? I do not want to be cynical, but I do want to ask how you will know who stayed in that church for sixty days, because I do not think that is so obvious. I would have liked to explain this. Is it true that those files will be processed more quickly? You say that applicants for regularisation should wait two to three years. I wasn't aware of that. When I left the department, it certainly wasn't. Perhaps it is possible, after a French-speaking profession, but two to three years is really long. Anyway, maybe things got worse there, I don't know. I have seen that the waiting list at the Council for Alien Contests has risen again. Maybe that explains the longer waiting period. A normal application pursuant to Article 9a generally does not last as long, especially if it is not the first application, because those who have already submitted an application are normally faster. If you say that these applications will be dealt with more quickly, this means that they will be given priority over the rest and that the other applicants will have to wait longer. You are planning to recruit additional officials and have launched a campaign for this, but that recruitment procedure via Selor takes time. People who are now on the waiting list are disadvantaged by your decision to speed up the processing of the hunger strikers' files. For me, this is equal to preferential treatment. If you don't agree with me, I'd like to hear what you mean by preferential treatment. I'm getting to the admissibility stage. I'm glad you read my opinion paper on that. Well, I certainly don't have the truth in mind, but I'm trying to put things together. At the time, Mr Wathelet was also confronted with hunger strikes, crane occupation, also thirst strikes, which made people very serious. He then suggested applying for an Article 9b treatment. As a result, the admissibility phase could have passed quickly and the persons concerned were given an AI, an AI certificate for immatriculation in the well-founded phase. This means that the asylum seeker cannot be expelled from the country because he is legally resident in our country and the certificate also gives access to a number of social rights such as OCMW support. This was the situation for the medical filter I introduced. If you want to carry out the 9ter treatment, you still have to pass the medical filter. The medical filter is a fine face-assessment by a doctor of the DVZ. Someone who experienced kidney or heart problems after a hunger strike was eligible in the Wathelet period through the excellent face-assessment for those three months. The medical filter is now stricter, which is why I am asking what your opinion is on the matter. You can tell me this is for the doctors. However, I suppose you have a policy in this area. In that medical filter, a French-speaking doctor could consider that an asylum seeker's application is admissible after a hunger strike, while a Dutch-speaking doctor does not take that into account. I would like to be clear about this. You say the hunger strikers are not eligible for a medical filter. Then we can delete the 9th option completely, because they will not be able to get through it. Then I'll take note of that. That is indeed not the Wathelet method. Well, then I'm glad that's where the "I" ends up. I will follow that up myself, because that is important. You also say that there is no change to the eligibility criteria. They are maintained, you say, but that is not entirely correct. You say they still have to pay 350 euros and 9ter is free and they will continue to pay 350 euros. Daniel Alliet says the identification documents are less important. You say the obligation remains. That means, a passport or identity card with photo. A birth certificate and a marriage certificate are not valid. The current criteria therefore remain valid, of which we take note. We will certainly follow that up, because that is a major problem on a regular basis. Daniel Alliet says in De Standaard that someone who hasn't paid a traffic ticket will get through the filter by now. I do not know whether people who have not paid a traffic ticket will necessarily be stopped, but I assume that the public order check will remain through the ANG and the criminal record and that this will always be considered in proportion. A blank record remains necessary. You say the entire file is being reviewed. I have nothing against that. That's what one has to do. If not, the profession at the RVV will be lost. The DVZ has to motivate that. The exceptional circumstances will still have to be justified. Fine. Your spokesperson says that work for regularization could be an element. I find that strange, because what kind of work is that? It's about undeclared work. But undeclared work is an additional burden for return. Undeclared work is an element to get a regularization, but if a black worker is caught at a yard or in a café, it is an additional element in the context of the ANG and public order to put that person on the plane as soon as possible. What is the government's policy? The PS focused heavily on work and bottlenecks: "Work, work, work, we have to work on that. We have to give those people papers." Your spokesperson confirms that. However, this is contrary to the policy so far. Fifth, the place of residence. Of course, it has already been relaxed, because at the moment one has to give up one's place of residence, unless one is homeless. There is also a residence check by the local police for a regularization application. Last week you said that the people in that church are all registered in the city of Brussels because they are going to a neutral zone. I wasn't supposed to be under too much stress at the time, because that was just an administrative matter. No, that's a relief. The reference residence now becomes the city of Brussels. The hunger striker from my example, who lives in Leuven and has an apartment there, will thus be registered in the city of Brussels with his regularization request. That doesn't make any sense. Should he live in Lubbeek and apply for regularization, he will still be checked for residence in Lubbeek. My cops will stop by. In this respect, you have already relaxed a criterion of the admissibility phase. It concerns a number of technical points, but it is very important to list exactly what the situation is. In addition, there are a number of more general points. I call for the list of hunger strikers to be coordinated and monitored separately and for reports to be made at regular intervals in committee. How many regularizations are there and what's the status? That is very important in order to be able to outline what is right. It's fine that you think that's a good idea, then we already agree. Sometimes I have a good proposal. However, I have two good proposals. Secondly, I think that you should have an investigation into whether the sewing of mouths is not a criminal offence and goes against the oath of Hippocrates. Should there not be a complaint, at least to the Order of Medicine of Brussels and Flemish Brabant? I think that is absolutely necessary. There is a very large case law on sm. At a certain point in time, the SMJ has also applied certain medical practices to his wife, perhaps you will remember. He was finally convicted of this, even if it was with that woman's consent. So she agreed to that and yet the man was convicted because it went too far. I can imagine that the sewing of mouths goes a little too far. I'm sure I'm also wondering if it's up to doctors to do something like that. So that deserves some research, especially with a view to the future. It's not the first time it's happened. I've also seen people sew their mouths shut. Mrs De Block has been there, she can tell you a lot about that, perhaps she has already done so. That's shocking. It's shocking how that happens and who does it. I believe that this should be examined so that this can no longer happen in the future, even if they are supposedly asking for it themselves. It's said to be on their own question, but ho ho ho. We must do something about that. Mr Secretary of State, a third proposal concerns hunger strikes as such. Mr Wathelet, Mrs De Block, myself, you now, it has been the same story for 20 years. It is organized from a certain angle, and we should not faint about that. That is always being swept under the mat, but I am glad that the government has said that it is really very problematic. They keep acting like their noses are bleeding, but it's all about crap. I will also take a parliamentary initiative myself, but I think the government should take the initiative that people on hunger strike should be blacklisted for regularisation. I think they should be given an absolute njet. I believe that society, democracy, Parliament and also the government have a responsibility to make it clear that there is a red line. One can do as many applications as one wants, one can even stay here in the context of procedures, but one cannot go on hunger strike. That blackmail has to stop. If they do, they will be blacklisted. Ready and done, then it's no. Perhaps there will still be international protection for asylum, but that is all if the homeland situation changes, of course, that can always be done. In 99% of cases, however, this is not the case, because many of these people come from Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. It doesn't look bad out there. I am not saying that this cannot change, but for the time being these are relatively stable countries. I will take a parliamentary initiative. I really think it should be over with those hunger strikes. I believe that our responsibility for democracy, for the representative of the people, for the government, is to say that we no longer want it. That is independent of personal ideology, left or right, you name it. I just can't do that anymore. Stop it. I come to my last point, namely the bigger picture. Les Républicains are now also jumping on the cart. It's the future. The Danes, the British, it will go that way. You know I keep hitting that nail. We must dare to draw a clear line, with a black list of people who continue to migrate illegally and to travel illegally. This goes far beyond paying for an illegal smuggler and people who are starting to starve themselves and try to blackmail the State. I can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, an hour or two ago I was still in Verviers, where I was able to see the distress – which was stressed by Mr Franken – of many fellow citizens, of many men and women, a terrible and abominable distress. I also saw, a few days ago, that it was the Beguinage, the VUB, the ULB, the same terrible and abominable distress and I am not looking for the causes of it today, I am not looking for who is responsible for it. What I've seen is, every time, human beings in terrible pain. Today, in the aftermath of the national holiday, the dramas evoked from all over Belgium, but especially from the province of Liège, I hoped for more decency in the words of some colleagues, but unfortunately, of entry, without surprise, the same always reacts in the same way, stirring the spectre of the migration wave. I heard, from the start, populist soup, hoping the cameras, demanding the broadcast of the debate to intervene. I am sorry, but when we talk about parliamentary work and legislative control, I fully agree, when we talk about transparency, I still agree, but when we talk about how to work, the urgency is not to respond today to all the action taken by the Secretary of State. Even if we need parliamentary scrutiny, should we, however, do so this Friday, urgently? I don't think so! For me, the urgency is not to debate the day after the issue in front of the cameras, to write a frenetic tweet and to get the fangs out, as I could also feel. Come on, let's go! To everyone, his values! To everyone his religion of Belgium! I've got mine. I want it united, I want it united, I want it human, but believe me, I want it too, like all my political group, responsible! And what is happening today is indeed the image of this Belgium, a responsible, legalistic and respectful Belgium. And it's not incompatible. So you can see it! I'm really pushing an of for relief, because we were able to avoid a human tragedy. I saw them, as a parliamentarian, I went to see them. It is also a parliamentary task to go to the field. I went there and realized the situation and tried to understand it. I'll come back later. But, in any case, there was a human distress, whatever the causes, there was one! She was terrible! For my group, a life is a life, whatever the colour of the skin, whatever the origin, whatever the status, a life, not to the line! Today, Secretary of State, through the action that has been taken, we have saved lives and from that, I am convinced. I would not have wanted a second to imagine the loss of a life and the moral consequences for each and every one of us. Mr Secretary of State, as you said, we are not going to do triumphalism today. It's not victory, but it's a terrible relief. This is a happy relief because there was an emergency on all three sites. We were close to a human tragedy and we were able to provide an answer, I said, consistent with the image I have of Belgium: human, just, legal, respectful and – it is important – individual. This is not a collective response. It's an individual answer. Let's not say anything or anything! When I say that we have been able to do this, it is not just the work of the government or parliamentarians, far from it! I am of course thinking of all those who have worked in this direction: the local authorities of the city of Brussels, the academic authorities, the ULB, the VUB, the Médecins du Monde, all the volunteers, the numerous field associations, who have spared no effort and, moreover, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, who has been able to carry out quality work. If we don't cry out for victory, the strike is suspended. In this case, fortunately, we do not have to deplore the slightest death, but we must continue. To do this, we must maintain confidence through the dialogue that you have been able to restore. This dialogue must continue and be translated into action. With my group, we will be very sensitive to the speed with which the files will be dealt with. It's important. The situation must change, the machine must start as soon as possible. Furthermore, if we have, in this case, responded to a dramatic situation, it is only a short-term response, which must not make us lose sight of the need - I have already mentioned it several times in calling on you, Mr Secretary of State - to provide a structural response to a situation that has been going on for so long. We cannot make the economy of reality on the ground or adopt a dialogue of the ideological deaf. I don't speak for you, Secretary of State. Who are these 500 hunger strikers? People who served in the restaurant, who worked in our country, who worked for Belgium and participated in its economy – several testimonies, including Andrea Rea's, are in this direction, as well as the National Bank's report. These people have contributed to our economy, integrated, until the health crisis struck them violently, resulting in dramatic consequences such as job loss, loss of money, loss of benchmarks and, therefore, no hope. Let us be clear and do not make triumphalism! Short-term answers have been found and lives saved, which we thank you for. But to the reindeer, we're gonna have to get involved. Let us make clear above all that there is no collective regulation, and my group has never asked for it! We have requested - and will continue to do so - an individual regularization based on clear, transparent and well-known criteria. Why? Because only these regularizations allow everyone to know the rules of the game, which is necessary in a democratic state. Structural questions also arise in relation to the situation of undocumented people in our country, particularly in relation to work, but also to training, as there are shortages in certain occupations. Undocumented people can and do contribute to the economy of our country, as mentioned by the National Bank as well as the trade unions and employers' organizations. Like Mr Franken, I am making proposals: when we come back to Parliament, let us collectively take up this issue! Let us highlight the government's clear agreement on this: "In order to meet the needs of the labour market, the new rules in terms of a single residence permit will be adapted in consultation with the Regions and the social partners. An electronic platform will be designed so that requests can be followed up and shopping can be combated." Let's move on, let's all meet again in September! The rest, well deserved by the Members of Parliament and first and foremost by the staff of the House, will lead us, I hope, to a calm debate by September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all I want to express our relief because a tragedy has been avoided. The undocumented have suspended their hunger strike but they will continue their struggle, by other means, to defend the rights of the 150,000 undocumented people in our country. The end of this strike must be the starting point for this government's reflection and the search for structural solutions to this problem. It must be said again that we are facing a situation of non-rights for 150,000 people. It is not normal for a government to disdain such a situation. I don't know if I have to react or not to the delusion of Mr. Van Langenhove. To hear it is the PTB doctors who would dictate to Mr. Mahdi what to do. I wonder who in Belgium can believe that the CD&V has as its master the PTB. Mr. Mahdi, you may have a poster of Peter Mertens or Raoul Hedebouw in your room, as Mr. Van Langenhove. If that is the case, why don't you then follow the PTB's claim to amend the law to regularize undocumented people with clear criteria? I must also repeat, although we have already done so here in the House, that the PTB is not in favour of a hunger strike as a mode of action. This does not mean that we do not support all undocumented people, including those who led this hunger strike. At what level of despair must one be in order to put one's life in danger? The health of many of these hunger strikers must be feared. Again, I mean, the PTB is not a supporter of the hunger strike. We have already had discussions with Mr Mahdi on this. I think he has understood and accepted this point of view, but it is clearly not the case for everyone. I want to make another point, which is essential. The undocumented are workers among the other workers. It is men and women who have to work in very difficult conditions to survive without papers. The question arises as to whether a rule of law can accept second-class citizens, or rather non-citizens, who work here, who pay taxes, such as VAT, who pay rents, but who have no rights. Is it normal that a woman born in Belgium 51 years ago, working, cleaning public service premises, has no rights? Mr. Franken also goes into a delusion that goes far. He wants to criminalize the people who are ultimately victims – the criminalization of the victims. He says that black work is an additional reason for evicting undocumented people. It's the world upside down! How do you want a undocumented person to work legally? What is needed is to enable them to work legally in our country. It is to avoid work in the dark that we have to regularize the undocumented. Who suffers the consequences of illegal work? It is a scourge for all workers. The employer is very happy to be able to underpay people and impose working conditions on them. But it is all the workers who suffer the consequences. There's obviously a domino effect. When part of the workers who, because they have no rights, work in inhumane working conditions and with indecent wages, it is the whole world of work that is affected. Regularizing the undocumented, therefore, is not only an end to a situation of lawlessness. It is also to defend the working and wage conditions of the entire world of work. The government does not provide real solutions in this regard. Today, there are 150,000 undocumented people in our territory. What concrete solutions do you propose to them, Mr Mahdi? No structural solution. For us, we need a structural change in the law. Clear criteria, such as having a job, anchoring or vulnerability, must be included in the law. Not at the head of the client, not with the discretion of a secretary of state, but as happens in Spain, Italy, France, where clear criteria are set. If you fill them out, you're regularized. Otherwise, you're not. Mr Secretary of State, why don't you apply this fairly coherent and logical principle that works in Spain, France and Italy? It is abnormal that a person who has been born in our territory and who has lived there for 51 years remains in this situation of lawlessness. Let us provide in the law clear criteria for regularizing them This is the position we have been defending for a long time. Mr Mahdi, I have not heard any counter-arguments in your introduction. You say we have to respect the law. No! This law is not good and needs to be changed. It is not normal that the fate of these people depends on the discretion of a member of the government. This situation of non-rights is in itself undemocratic. That, Mr Secretary of State, is what I would like to hear: why do you refuse to do what is being done in Spain, France or Italy?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, we share the relief that there have been no casualties. None of my colleagues is blind and deaf to the human suffering of both activists and those who have not acted and live in uncertainty. If some take extreme means of action once in a while too often in the past legislature - I agree with you on this point, Mr Francken, I can partly understand that. But understanding is not the same as approving. Nor does it mean sanctioning those involved by blacklisting them. If we want to deal with dossiers individually, we must not impose a collective sanction for over-extreme action. We must take risks with one's own health and with those of others who are dragged into the action by placing them collectively on a blacklist. I think that is too far-reaching. I welcome your unequivocal communication from day one to the last day, Mr Secretary of State. Some have not thanked you for that. You've been accused of being inhumane. Our opinion is that clarity is humane. You and others have underlined that our regularisation policy is very humane, and it has been proven by figures: by 2020 there were over 3,000 regularisations. So we are dealing very humanely with this exceptional instrument, which is provided for by the law. Above all, we use that instrument on an individual basis. That is to say, on the basis of individual calls and the handling of the individual file. The treatment of people as individuals rather than as collectivity is very humane. I would find it very inhumane, Mr Secretary of State, if you had given us some uncertainty. Those who, on the other hand, have created uncertainty, created false hope and preached an unrealistic outcome have not been properly dealt with and they do not deserve it in all their misery. Human doesn't mean preferential treatment. Someone has just claimed that there is preferential treatment, as the persons concerned can enter the neutral zone. For me, preferential treatment is a treatment whereby individual criteria are used and the criteria are given a more flexible one than the other. That does not seem to me to be the case here. Colleagues, regularisation for humanitarian reasons, which has a legal basis, is a favour. I hear some colleagues arguing for objective criteria to be applied. Well, if we do that, regularization is no longer a favor. Then it becomes a right. We already provide for many rights in our migration and asylum policies. You have pointed out several points in the debates, including in plenary, Mr Secretary of State. However, in some very humanitarian individual cases, we may still have to offer opportunities to people, families, through a favour. As soon as criteria are placed on them, they apply to them, and only for them, and they close gates to other, perhaps equally humanely responsible dossiers. In any case, it is also possible to act very humanely on the basis of a favor measure, as demonstrated by the number of regularisations in recent years. I also heard some of my colleagues earlier arguing for dialogue. I fully agree with that. But let us be correct, colleagues. There was dialogue before the action. There was dialogue during the action. There will be dialogue after the action, whether one was an actor or not. It is a dialogue with respect, and that also means without false hope. This also means that there are clear rules of the game, the legal framework and the framework of the political agreements reached with the majority during the government negotiations. In a majority, agreements are often made. Some demands are brought in, others aren't, but pacta sunt servanda. The agreements are supposed to be respected. After all, I fear to create a suction effect by creating false hope. In a prosperous country like ours we must be able to bear suffering, but our shoulders are of course too french to bear all the suffering of the world. Nor should we give that hope to others. What we can do, we must do, we must do right and we must be respectful. However, we must be clear, transparent and correct in what we cannot handle. I do not thank you, Mr Secretary of State, but also the many people who helped the solution behind and next to the scenes. Hopefully, many dossiers can be solved on the basis of proper humanitarian reasons, of activists, but not less of non-activists.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, we are all very relieved. I have been very concerned about this and I have even been awake about it, which I am sure will also apply to you and to many members of this committee. However, much was possible from the moment this government spoke with one voice. Vooruit's analysis is that a lot of time was lost, including with the riots on Twitter. We believe that there are clear criteria for refugees, family reunification, labour migration and a number of other statutes. Regularisation is possible as a favor, not as a right, on an individual basis and never collectively. The solution had therefore to be sought within these contours, providing clarity about the perspective for people without legal residence, not only for the hunger strikers but also for others in the end. I am therefore pleased that a solution has been found within these contours. After all, a hunger strike to its limits is never the right means. Mr Francken says he is very strong about this, and we are not only very strong about it but also consistent about it. For example, I read that Mark Demesmaeker of N-VA was able to support the hunger strike for autonomy of a number of Catalans. That was then pressure shared by the party. However, we are strongly and consistently opposed to this method, in all circumstances, not only if it suits us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u10	Mr Segers, I would like to respond to that. I saw your reaction at the time, and I found that really shocking. It is appalling that you compare political prisoners in the European Union, which your party keeps quiet about, with people who live in complete freedom on Belgian territory. That is absolutely shocking, I don't really understand how you dare make that comparison. However, I welcome your attention to the Catalan case and I look forward to your party's communication on this matter. Take it up for those people, because the socialists are in Spain in government. Do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u11	Let us look ahead for a moment, because what interests me now is how we can make this neutral location a success. Of this way out of this crisis, we now need to make a lasting solution for people with devious residence. It was painful to see some of them rubbing their hands on social media because too many people showed up this morning. Mr Francken, I am addressing you again, because of your statement I told you so. You know that I have long argued for a neutral location as a way out of the crisis. Last Thursday I made another plea for this and I think that the applause for a neutral location may sound a bit more united, even from the majority. I do remember, however, that your group applauded most loudly. You will understand that I have kept that in mind, because I found it remarkable that your group very loudly applauded the proposal for the establishment of a neutral location. On Friday, you feared that this neutral location would not work, because you thought that too few people would show up. Then there were rumors about all kinds of extra things that would happen there. Let's say what it's on, you've been involved in it in your distinctive style, for example, with claims, covering yourself with question marks, making it look like you were asking questions. You have made other matters more explicit. Many others, including non-politicians, have spread falsehoods. That did not always happen in bad faith, it is and remains a difficult issue. Anyway, that's how the misunderstandings piled up. The next step was effective that there were ultimately too many candidates this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u12	Mr Segers, I have to interrupt you again, because Mr Francken is asking for the floor. As long as you refer to Mr Francken, he will, of course, want to invoke a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u13	Mr President, I have already been mentioned by everyone, including that PVDA man, to whom I have not responded, and Mr Verherstraeten, who said that the blacklist would go too far. Mr Verherstraeten, you take the position that you can understand it by yourself if you do something like that. I take note of that. I've seen an ACV flag hanging there, too, so whatever. Mr Segers, it was not clear to me that all illegal immigrants in Belgium have access to that neutral zone. You knew that, probably because you are also taking part in the meetings of the majority consultation. I've reread all the government's communications, but I couldn't figure that out from any of the messages. I thought the neutral zone was only set up for the hunger strikers, but apparently I was wrong. That is possible, but I believe that I am quite well informed. You read everything, you certainly, but I also read a lot, because I'm trying to keep track of my files. Still, I didn't know that. That's a first thing. At the very least, I think that there has been a lack of clarity on this issue. It was only this morning that a message in De Standaard made this clear. There we could read that there were 200 people there yesterday, but that there was no hunger striker. I was amazed. Is this open to everyone? Apparently, every illegal person in Belgium has been able to go there for the last few hours. Now that's being adapted. You are also talking about a big applause at the N-VA banks. I think there may be four, five or six men in plenary. I was not there myself, so I cannot judge it. You say this was a round of applause for the neutral zone. That's your interpretation, I don't know. You're going down a bit by saying it's fantastic there. Last week, in the context of the hunger strike, the Action Committee said that it was particularly important not to go to that neutral zone. They saw that it wasn't really a success in the first few days. In particular, non-hungry strikers came along because the Action Committee said that they should not be involved and should continue until the bitter end. So they went on a thirst strike. Then there has been a government crisis and there has been consultation at Roosemont and at Mahdi's cabinet. Dirk Van den Bulck was then deployed. Then something came and they stopped. I'd like a very clear picture of that trail. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u14	I agree with Mr Francken that anything better should be done. I am also curious to know who exactly is welcome there, and I would also like to ask the Secretary of State. Mr Francken, I can assure you that your group's applause was indeed about that. This is also apparent from the discussions that took place afterwards, and I can tell you more about this later. In any case, you said earlier that you wanted to approach this issue of hunger strike with some caution. I thought that was a good line and I regret that you have deviated from it, but I am not going to go into that further. Now let us solve the problem and not push things further. I would ask for some kindness from that side. I would also like to ask for a lasting solution on the other side. For me, the neutral zone remains an essential element for clarity. It is very problematic that we know very little about the illegal residents of Belgium. As a result, it is very difficult to implement an adapted policy. We know it's a lot of people. The number that always goes round is 150,000. I don't know if that number is correct. I just read an interesting, scientifically well-founded study on the situation in the Netherlands. This shows that the number of illegal residents has fallen sharply in recent years. Why would that be different in Belgium? At least we need to know who it's about. A count is therefore needed, so that we get a better view of the profiles and not blind sailing. So we know what we can improve. Are you prepared to take that first step and have such a study carried out, for example together with Myria? As far as more structural solutions are concerned, you mentioned earlier the strengthening of the Foreign Affairs Office, in particular the cell that deals with the regularisations. You spoke of a reinforcement from 18 to 21. That's an important signal. When did those numbers start dating? However, more is needed. The lead time is not known, but in your opinion there are many situations in which it is two years. It's obvious that's way too long. It is important that you give that signal immediately and strengthen that service so that it does not end with an announcement. There needs to be a substantial strengthening in the very short term, so that this lead time is greatly reduced. In this way you also give the signal that a hunger strike is not necessary in order to be conclusive within a reasonable period of time. As far as the fight against the exploitation of illegal residents is concerned, there is a false assumption among many. You need to regularize people and then the exploitation stops. Of course, first of all, we need a better regulation on the subject of disadvantaged professions. I am thinking of Brussels and the Walloon Region. However, the assumption is wrong in itself. Rogue employers want cheap labour. An employer won't suddenly recruit someone because he's regularized. Illegal work doesn't stop suddenly when people are regularized. Let's stop saying that. I read that everywhere, but it's just wrong. We must fight against the parallel economy of black money, which ultimately also leads to crime, trafficking in human beings and more exploitation. That is why I am pleased that the fight against trafficking in human beings and economic exploitation is an absolute policy priority in the coalition agreement. That was important to my party. My party has also argued that there should be sufficient resources for this. This has already led to the strengthening of the ECOSOC teams, the inspection services, thanks to Minister Dermagne. He put a minimum and a maximum scenario on the table. I have asked questions about this and I would be happy to provide you with that information. There's a certain momentum now. Everyone seems to agree that the fight against exploitation is very important and is actually the structural solution. I call on CD&V and the other parties to go for that maximum scenario. Let us strengthen these ECOSOC services as much as possible. One aspect of this is that those involved are led to the status of trafficking in human beings if they are involved in the legal procedures. It is a human and also controlled procedure, because at the same time we are tackling the networks and therefore making structural changes. So, Mr Secretary of State, that is also a question for you. Then I come to the fight against trafficking in human beings. I have also put a number of questions to Minister Verlinden about this. I have to admit that the answers I have received from her have not yet been entirely satisfactory to me. After all, she did not signal any problems in terms of priorities, while I often get the message on the ground that it is true that the fight against trafficking in human beings has fallen well on the list of priorities. This is also seen, for example, in the support of the ECOSOC teams, and this is also seen elsewhere. I would therefore like to ask the government to make a real effort to do this, because the signals from the field are very clear. There's obviously a big question. Look at what happened this morning. Hundreds of people came there. This means that there is a demand for clarity, that there is a lack of future orientation. Flanders even deleted it from the decree, I understand. However, there are promising projects. You know them, you've visited them. There are projects in Ghent and Antwerp, with many different political partners. In Brussels there is also a need for an "extremely" effect. I would like to know whether there is something in the pipeline, with a pilot project, in Brussels, more generally to that 'outreaching' effect. What will you provide for that financially? There will be extras for Antwerp and Ghent, but what will happen in Brussels? Is it possible to provide aerials in different places in Brussels to show the state of play of the files? Just so we're clear, this isn't just about the hunger strikers. I am not asking for these people's files to be speeded up, but for the perspective to be clarified more quickly. You can also immediately provide information about return in the context of the note you are working on, about the detention policy. I keep saying this in conjunction with my earlier plea about the much faster lead time at DVZ. That really should happen immediately. I have read a number of opinions and analyses in the press in which politics was presented as a monolithic block. That is wrong, just as it is wrong to put people without legal residence as a block. In those analyses, the politics were bad and she did nothing. It is very difficult for people without legal residence to make their voices heard. That hunger strike is the only way to do that, I should like to formally contradict this. The coalition agreement has a lot of attention for that group of people. There was no need for a hunger strike to shorten the lead time for the Office of the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless at the DVZ, for the major recruitment campaign and for the increase in staff which should lead to fewer people being forced to apply for regularisation. Nor was there any need for a hunger strike to shorten the regularisation procedure itself, which the Secretary of State is working on and which I expect to see a little more. There was no need for a hunger strike to focus in the coalition agreement on a future orientation, an up-and-coming approach and on pilot projects. The vaccination of people without legal residence has made our country an exemplary country. That passage was also very important for my party Vooruit during the negotiations. There was no need for hunger strike in the fight against trafficking in human beings to tackle structural problems. The inspection services are being added to the fight against malicious employers. That is all in the coalition agreement at the explicit request of Vooruit. These are all solutions that are good, both for people without legal residence and for society. Too often it's said that those two rule out each other. Those who are often very critical, too, I would ask for a certain kindness and resolve-orientedness. I also ask them not to fall into clichés too quickly, because not everything is bad and there is quite a lot moving. I am therefore convinced that we can find those solutions that are good for both illegal residents and for society and that they can strengthen each other. That is not a choice between head and heart, as is often said. That's with the head and heart. That's controlled and human. We have to move forward. I wish you every success in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u15	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, like other colleagues, I would like first of all to express my relief for the situation we were experiencing and which was truly dramatic. I had the opportunity, with Maxime Prévot, to go to the church of the Beguinage, to meet these people and to listen to their painful testimonies that must challenge us in one way or another. Some would like to make it appear that we want a massive regularization without criteria in a global way. That's not the case. If the hunger strike is a rather special way, I would say, to make demands, in this case it was a cry of real despair of people who have been on our territory for five, ten, fifteen, twenty years. They have lasting ties to them, they have jobs in which they are mostly exploited, while we have job shortages in many respects. They are therefore in complete misunderstanding of what is happening to them. Talking about the political agenda of the voluntary sector that has framed them, supported them, accompanied them, talking about a form of strategy, I find it deplorable. As I said, I think this is the only way to manifest real human distress. For example, graduates do not find a job that corresponds to their degree because they simply do not have access to the labour market. They therefore work for 30 euros a day with 15 hours of work, especially in the Horeca or in the construction sector. These are dramatic situations, and we have paid particular attention to them. We are therefore relieved that this hunger strike is stopping. I've heard a lot of nauseous talk about the alleged organization of ambulance ballets or firefighters. It was necessary to go there to see the medical situation of some people. About 15 people were hospitalized a day, being exhausted because of the strike they were conducting, which represented for them, in their deep distress, the last hope of being heard. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that, given the complicated political context, you will answer all the questions that have been put to you by parliamentarians. I hope that we will not attend, as was too often the case at the last meetings, a dialogue with your predecessor to designate the one who would have been the best, the hardest, who does not give in to blackmail, and who, according to your criteria, would be the best Secretary of State. At the last meetings, the questions of other parliamentarians received little answers, as it seemed that you had to justify yourself in relation to one person. I also find it difficult to understand what you are talking about when you speak of just and humane answers. The individual examination of the files will, I hope, be a way of proving this fairness and humanity. Your various statements did not at least bear witness to this so far. In your introductory statement, you stressed your willingness to be transparent, so as not to create false hopes. In this, I can follow you. I will not, however, follow you on transparency, for in my view there is transparency when the rules and criteria for gaining access to regularisation are known in advance. It is therefore not, as I have often had the opportunity to say, the Prince's fact, on the basis of an individual examination, that remains an appreciation. It is important to have objective criteria. Some believe that if we set objective criteria, we can miss out on certain situations. However, these objective criteria can also – and this is what we are proposing, as well as others – pass through a committee that could give you an objective opinion on the basis of these criteria. These criteria must be known in a transparent manner. You insist on transparency. I'm doing it, too. When people know the situation, how they can be regularized, they also know that if they do not meet these criteria, they cannot be regularized. Thus, there is little room for manoeuvre for actions such as hunger strikes in practice. Situations are clarified for everyone and people can join. Other colleagues have cited states in which these regularisation criteria exist. I take the example of France, which highlights the issue of employment. We know that, during the covid crisis and confinements, we had all kinds of jobs in short supply. Let us also consider the necessary reconstruction following the terrible floods in Wallonia, particularly in my province of Liège. In France, there is a willingness to bring people out of hiding and from the conditions of exploitation of which they are sometimes victims. I am thinking, for example, of human trafficking and sleep merchants. We know that all these issues are crucial and that people need to be treated with humanity. You can question the French Government or the Spanish Government, which also applies other criteria. I hear in many mouths an expression that I hate, that is, this "air call" that you fear so much. You say, in particular, that if we do like these countries, we're going to have an air call. I'm sure I don't! We must observe what is happening in France, for example. It is very much based on the means of work to allow regularisation: to provide proof of a promise of commitment or copies of pay slips proving a year of work, even if it is in hiding - in France, the legislation is a little different from ours on this subject and thus allows to produce these documents. Not only could we meet the labour needs, which Belgium knows as other European states, but we could also show humanity. Other criteria could also be applied. As some have said, this was done at the time of Melchior Wathelet. I am referring to a regularisation on the basis of objective criteria, where the analysis takes place on a case-by-case basis, ideally by an independent commission which can give you objective, independent, transparent opinions which you can rely on in the end to make a decision. I still don't understand why you can't sign up for such a scheme. In my view, it is a win-win scheme – excuse me to say so – for our country, for our institutions, for the respect of human dignity, for the respect of all those people who live underground and in deep despair. As some have said, confinements have resulted in loss of income for these people as they have rendered them unable to work and unable to defend themselves from the situations they are facing. I know you're pushed behind the back by others who tell you today that the signals that have been given and that have made it possible to stop this inhuman hunger strike are already too much. In a responsible country, if you want to be fair and human, I think you will have to opt for a procedure like others. Indeed, hunger strikes, alas, there will still be others, because of the misunderstanding that prevails with regard to the fact that people are in the territory. Of course, they have previously received orders to leave the territory, but sometimes, given the procedures, as they are currently known and the succession of procedures, people have remained in the territory for a number of years, because the responses have delayed in this regard. Therefore, since it is the State that has made itself responsible for their integration, for their lasting ties, for their presence in the territory for a long time, it is also, in our view, the duty of the State to regularize the status of these persons. Admittedly, a whole series of additional staff must arrive to fill different positions, which will probably allow faster responses. Therefore, the situation in the future should be regularised in a shorter period of time. But it does not prevent me from seeing how it could "create an air call" for past situations, since in any case one of the questions is how long refugees have been in the territory. Obviously, those who would now arrive would not benefit from the conditions enjoyed by those who have been there for perhaps three or five years. There's something in the mechanics that I don't understand! I hope that we can discuss all these elements in depth and not only with slogans or because you are pushed behind the back by some. But if it is humanity, fairness and transparency that enlivens you - which you have repeated as you wish in your presentation - you know, of course, in your own heart that such situations cannot be tolerated in a state governed by the rule of law. Just see the few articles that have been published abroad about this hunger strike in Belgium. It was an embarrassment to sit in Belgian institutions and to be Belgian in the light of these articles published abroad. We need to think collectively about positive measures and it is not just about saying "everything that wants to come is welcome". It's not about that! No one's saying that around the table right now. No one! Those who say so are those who interpret to try to be reducers, but I have not heard anyone among our colleagues ask that. Everyone is asking, I hope, for worthy answers. Whatever! In the same way, our colleague Hervé Rigot referred to the question of dignity which, he said, does not arise in the Béguinage church or in Pepinster with the floods. It arises at every moment. We are fighting – and here I am making a little rapprochement because you are of the same political family as mine – I hope, for the same thing: respect for the dignity of every human being. In that regard, we must be able to find solutions that are commensurate with our political commitments and that message that we carry to the very heart of our political doctrine. I hope, in any case, that through the various documents you have announced, such as the creation of a migration code, etc., we can find a balance between fairness, humanity and of course responsibility. It's not a question, at some point, of saying that it's open bar and that everyone can come. It's not about that at all, and you know it. We really count on you to make your policy different from that of the previous government. That is why all the French-speaking parties, I think I can say, and some of the Dutch-speaking parties are counting on you to ensure that your policy is different from that of previous governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u16	Mr. President, Mrs. Matz, I love you, but you tortured me! I had to take a health break. But here I am again before you, and I am here above all to listen to you and to all the members present in this committee. I want to thank you for the many questions. I am also pleased that we can clarify the policy here today. It is good that we have the space to do so; the many questions deserve an answer. Mr Van Langenhove, you are one of the committee members who is always present, perhaps also at last week's committee meeting. A question was also asked about visa sanctions. I made it clear to Mr Francken that the Commission did indeed put forward a proposal for visa sanctions vis-à-vis certain countries. That proposal now goes to the Council. The Council should determine which specific visa sanctions will be applied to which countries. After all, there are gradations in that. Perhaps you can get information in German newspapers about which countries they are, but discretion has been asked. By the way, I myself advocated visa sanctions. I am very pleased that the Commission has also done an effective job before the start of the summer recess and that we can now discuss this further. You asked where the visa sanctions are. Together with many other Member States, I have argued in favour of this, because it is a way of responding to countries. That's kind of important, too. Each country has a responsibility to its own nationals. If that responsibility is not taken, there must be levers to sanction it. What you're telling us about the sirens is a criminal offense. If the aid offered by the State is misused, it must be complained of. That's not up to me, of course. If there are indications of this, action must be taken. Apart from that, some sirens were certainly justified, because people needed help. You're not denying that either. You asked how many people have been in the neutral zone. If I am not mistaken, Friday at 23 and Thursday at 59 people. I find it a little strange to get the question of who exactly has been by, after all, we did not know well that there have been non-hungry strikers too, followed by the claim that we already knew that not everyone who has been by for the first two days was hunger striker. I'm not talking about yourself, Mr. Van Langenhove. I say it in general. Anyway, in recent days I have communicated how many people have been in the neutral zone and made it clear that some of them were connected to the hunger strikers. It may have been about someone who was sent for, but others didn't. You had that information. You even talked about that. I hear here saying that on the first two days few people came along and that the only ones who did come to the neutral zone had no ties with the hunger strikers. That's not entirely true. By the way, that indicates that you also see, I believe, that the neutral zone was mainly meant to get people out of the three sites and to get them out of the collective. When one sits in a collective, for days, weeks, there is a group that I can't use any other term radicalize for a piece. It's hard to get out of the collective. I would like to hear your opinion, but I do not think it would be a bad thing to open a neutral zone in the first few days, because when people come at it, others realize that one may have to stop believing in a collective solution and that one should also go to the neutral zone in the example of others. That was the plan. The aim was also to evaluate the area on a daily basis. That's what I've always said. We would evaluate the method of the neutral zone on a daily basis and examine what worked and what did not. Today, it has been shown that this method did not work properly given that so many people who came along all thought that there would be a special solution for them. Then we must intervene. I think it was a good thing that we had set up a neutral zone during the first few days. I do have to be discreet about the people who came by for hunger strikers. One cannot mention the names of persons at that time, if they are part of the collective party, but they do get useful information about what should fit into a file or not. I now hear the reaction that it is normal for so many people to arrive, as they can engage in a direct conversation with an official of the Foreign Office. But that was allowed in those first days, when only 23 and 59 people came along, they knew that at that time. The reason why so many people come by today is not because they are suddenly told that everyone can get information, because that was already known in those first days. However, it has to do with the fact that people think they have information that will enable the dossier to be resolved. That's why intervention was needed. I am pleased that in the first few days the neutral zone has caused some in the collective to start doubting and considering going into the outstretched hand. That's exactly what we had to do. We are in a situation where people have been on a hunger strike for 60 days, some of us are also on a thirst strike. In one way or another, we have tried to facilitate the provision of information. It is not more than disclosure. We did, and I think it was good to do that. The long-term review procedures and the lengthy procedures in general were asked how we are to deal with them in a structural manner, regardless of the additional staff. Well, I already said that, after taking the oath, I wanted to purchase scissors to cut ribbons. A new migration code has been under constant discussion since 2005. So I thought I only had to cut a ribbon to get there. In this respect, I have to say that the administrations have done a lot of work, but nothing has happened at political level. I understand there are other priorities. However, in the current migration code there are articles relating to foreign law which refer to already deleted articles. This causes, among other things, years of appeal procedures. As a result, asylum seekers can also submit an appeal procedure to the interim decision of a larger decision and actually appeal to any interim decision. That is not workable, but we have allowed it to happen for years. It is not for nothing that I immediately set up a committee to work on the migration code, because that is what needs to be done. It's not obvious. It's one of my priorities, but it won't make the headlines of the newspapers, be flashy and be no hot item on Twitter. I'm sure it'll make a difference on the ground. A change in, inter alia, review procedures is therefore essential. You rightly asked what to do with asylum seekers who have been here for two years and who have been given an order to leave the territory. We have given far too many orders in the past to leave the territory within 30 days, and for the rest it was up to the person in question. I have said it many times, I want to go beyond granting asylum to those who are allowed to stay here and to send others back. For me, it is also about integrating the person concerned or reintegrating them. I have the task, which is a part of the Länder, but which I would like to include, of integrating people who are allowed to stay here as well and as quickly as possible. It is not enough for me to say that someone is fleeing war and persecution and then telling him or her that they can be part of the club. No, we have to integrate that person. On the other hand, it is not enough for me to get the person in question alone on a plane, to put it flat. I also want to help him or her re-integrate and guide that person to return. We must therefore make it clear to him or her how to return as best we can. For that there are very nice projects, of Caritas, of IOM. Mr Van Langenhove, you say that does not work, the figures contradict you. It works for a piece, not for everyone. As proof, in non-covid times, about 5,000 people return on average every year, just look at the figures for the past 15 years. The other half is forced back. So we have to do both. Preferably, though, one tries to send someone back voluntarily. This is more humane and sustainable, because voluntary returners will stay in their country of origin more often than those who are forced to return and perhaps try to come back. Besides, it's cheaper. You also know this on the basis of the conclusions of the Bossuyt Committee. That is not enough for a group of people. Some say they're staying anyway. This requires a forced return and additional capacity, a demand that has been alive for a long time. I can only say that, in cooperation with the Government of the Buildings, I am doing everything I can to ensure that things are quantified and not just commented on. They're working on it. It's an important priority. I understand the question. At least we're doing our best. There was the question of what will happen to the people who will not be regularized. I understand Mr Francken's question about the list and transparency about it. I am not the great GDPR specialist, I do not know to what extent lists of names of people and their status may be communicated. I see a Member of this House shaking no. Should it depend on me, the more transparency the better, what can be done within the legal framework. I don't have a problem with that. I know what policy I'm pursuing. I know what I said to the hunger strikers and civil society. For me, it is no problem to make clear who and under what conditions is regulated and who is not. No problem at all! I'd be happy to do that if I could. Mr Van Langenhove, you have asked how many people have already applied for a 9ter. At first that was zero people, after receiving a text message, that's one person. You claim that I would have told the newspapers that I would be more humane. I have told everyone I have spoken that we are human, that we were human and that we will remain humane. That doesn't change anything. That people on the basis of this communication say to others that I will be more humane...If that helps to end people who risk their lives for 60 days end their hunger strike, I can live with them saying that. Really, I can live with that. I know what I said and I know what I'm doing. If that can help to get people out of the church who are starving, if that helps to persuade people to try it again individually, that's not a problem for me. Mr Francken, you will report it yourself. Priest Alliët talks about traffic fines that are no longer considered an element not to write a negative off for a regularization request. Then you know as well as I do that this used to be the case, but also there, if it helps to convince people to stop, then I can say that this was the policy, that this is the policy and that this will continue to be the policy. For a long time we had to explain to people what the policy is. We have also had to make it clear that the policy has become more humane in recent years. You all know the website of the DVZ. You are all aware of the percentages of requests for regularisation that are being handled positively. I can only be very open and transparent about this. They were very low two legislative hours ago. In the previous legislature, partly thanks to Mr Francken's work, they were between 45% and 55% because there was a certain view that had to be humane and justified. We cannot all give a positive answer, but we must always have a specific view of the people. The positive and negative elements must be taken into account. I don't know what's wrong with that. A question has been asked about work as an element of regularisation. It has been said very clearly to the people I have spoken to that work is not the element that will ensure that people are regularised. What has been said is that the willingness to integrate is a small part, a weight, that is in the balance. For example, the fact that someone is doing volunteer work is taken away. Does this mean someone's getting regularized for volunteering? No. Of course not. Of course, more is needed than just that. The fact that someone wants to make an effort is, of course, an element that plays along. No, that won't be the element that moves through. That is not a new policy, Mr Francken. It used to be. The fact that someone is working or volunteering was also taken into account at that time. That was a weight in the scales and it will remain. Are the anchoring in Belgium and the vulnerability of the person from now on criteria? I sometimes do not understand the questions, because they come from colleagues who should know well enough, who have had the discretion themselves. It used to be. An anchoring plays a role. If one is anchored here in society and one can submit 30 letters from friends and neighbours who say that the person concerned is a good guest, well integrated, then that will be included in the assessment. That was always the case. Is that the only element on which one can stay? No. Of course not. Of course, a person's vulnerability always plays a role. I feel that I am now having exactly the same conversation as with the spokesmen of the hunger strikers and civil society. Today I do that again here, explaining what the policy stands for. Just so we're clear, I'm okay with that. I stress what we do, what we do and what we do tomorrow. I would like nothing more than to clarify that because it also helps us move forward. I can't count on two hands how many conversations I've had and how many conversations I'll have left. At a round table in Anderlecht's slaughterhouse I talked to people without papers, I talked to people from Cultureghem about illegal residence and how difficult it is to apply for regularization, what the elements are, and I've been able to have a discussion from person to person in which I honestly say what we do and try to emphasize how we deal with illegal residence. I did that before there was a hunger strike or an occupation. I'll keep doing that, too. That's my job as Secretary of State. Indeed, an envoy was appointed to continue this work and to explain on the sites how we conduct policy. That's Mr Van den Bulck. I do so directly with a number of spokesmen, but one has to get to the sites in order to speak further. That's what we did there. Our Messenger did so. The envoy had talks, including that Tuesday, four hours and forty-five minutes, with different people to explain what we are doing and to actually call the Secretary of State once in a while, asking if I would not be prepared to do so anyway. Every time the same answer came: no. That's not easy. This is not an easy task for an apostle. He's being sent out with the very clear assignment to inform, not to negotiate. After all, I am not at a negotiating table. You've all read the papers, but apparently sometimes selective. You have all read in those newspapers that there was first disappointment that the envoy was not given a mandate to negotiate. He's been given the mandate to inform and he's actually called once in a while with questions. Political decisions, of course, not the envoy. Politics has to explain exactly what we do. That's what I've done. At one of the many meetings it was made clear that an unpaid parking ticket cannot be the reason for a refusal. It was also ensured that a humane approach would be taken and that each dossier would be looked at separately. Mr Segers, you asked about the department's personnel figures. In 2018, the cell regularization had 18 staff members and today they are 21. That's a little backup. The major reinforcement is still to come and priority must be given to cell 9a. Perhaps this was the meeting of the last hope for some people. It was undoubtedly thought that at the end of the political year an agreement could be reached with the Secretary of State on new criteria, a collective adjustment or a cancellation of fees. I had to deliver a not-so-pleasant message at the time. I shall then come to a faster processing of the files. For me, the most important thing was to get the hunger strikers to stop their action. They, like many others, were waiting for an answer. I pointed out to them the neutral zone where they could get information. I have also said effectively that we want to deal with their files as quickly as possible. There are several priority target groups and they have always been. First in, first out doesn't always match reality. Often the focus is on files that have been dragging on for a long time because they are technical or difficult. In other cases, these are vulnerable people. In this case, it is true that there are vulnerable people, and therefore their files need to be dealt with quickly. I thought it was important to share this so that we could get those people out of there, too. If that's what it takes to stop the hunger strike, I'm willing to do it. Setting criteria, collective regularization, stopping fees, a different view of the positive and negative elements in the assessment, treating the 9b differently, temporary solutions: I am not prepared to do so. That's not an easy message. Those concerned continue to hope and think that there may be a solution, and one must always answer: no, no, no. However, if it helps to tell someone that he will be part of a number of priority groups that we are trying to answer even faster than the others we are trying to deal with quickly, then I am prepared to do so. Absolutely. The questions about the sewing of mouths and the sm-practices communicated on them are not within my competence. In my human opinion, apart from politicians, it is vengeful to sew people's mouths shut, to encourage them or to help them. I certainly didn't like to see that happen, like many other things. As far as medical evacuation is concerned, I'm not a lawyer, but it doesn't always seem obvious to me either. We have certainly mapped out what happened on the various sites in order to be able to intervene. That piste to do the necessary, if necessary, was also investigated. There is always a need for a proper legal basis. However, it is not evident in a rule of law that we are happy with. Mr Rigot, you said that we should not rejoice in having "win" because the hunger strike has stopped. You're absolutely right. I always said we weren't in a fight against opponents. There is no fight to be waged in relation to a person. Politics must inform undocumented people, people in distress, those to whom some sometimes give false hopes. Crying victory is not my way of working as Secretary of State and I am right about it. Colleagues, you have told me about the work that is an important part of this problem. How can we manage migration through this? That is an important question. Previously, migration had not been well thought out. It is very often referred to as asylum in committee, but not often as migration. These two debates are different, but they are equally important. I have already said this on several occasions in the media and in committee: there is a need for a thoughtful debate on migration. This migration must be legal and selective at the labour level. What are the trades in short supply? It is the Regions themselves that have to think and answer this question. I would like to tell you that the jobs in Flanders or Wallonia are not the same. Each Region must play its part in trying to meet the demand for labour. In my view, it is important to ensure that countries of origin are strengthened. One of the mechanisms that I find extremely interesting is the mechanism of circular migration. We are not only going to look in these countries for "big heads" to strengthen our economy; we must ensure that these people will gain experience at home while strengthening our labour market, but then they will return to their country of origin, which will be very happy to benefit from this experience in Belgium. Everyone finds themselves winning in this mechanism. I would really like to work on this circular migration mechanism. Colleagues, you also told me about the Digital Single Window platform. I have already discussed it and have already communicated it. I had to gather twelve ministers around the table and convince them before getting it. Now, it has existed, first since April in the test and operational phase since May. This electronic platform exists, and it is important to be able to digitise and speed up the procedure for coming to work in Belgium. But you have to follow the rules, it's important. We must make sure that we think carefully about the organisation of legal, work migration. The digital solution is also a victory over other European countries that are trying to offer an attractive market for jobs in need, which are often the same as in Belgium. Mr Van Hees, you also mentioned a hunger strike as a starting point for a re-bronning. I hope that she will help everyone, all of us, to re-source, and I sincerely mean that. It has not been an obvious period for anyone, and I understand the different political views. But when one is clearly aware of the policy and knows that it will continue to be so, then it is also up to everyone to be clear about it. I accept that a political party states that policy must go one direction or the other, opinions may differ and even collide as far as I am concerned. But we must at least have the honesty to indicate that a hunger strike will not help. As a man of my time, I spend a lot of time on social media. I've seen videos there, including from the PVDA-PTB and their fraternity. Members point out in a very creative way that they do not support the hunger strike but understand that it is being done, and that they hope that it will lead to a different policy. When the cameras are gone, that message will be communicated even more strongly. I do not wish to engage in a well-naïve debate. That communication wasn't even diffuse anymore, which is extremely dangerous. You tell me that we live in the rule of law and that undocumented people have no rights. I can give you some reason. It is correct to say that we live in a rule of law, but it is not correct to say that undocumented people have no rights. Urgent medical assistance exists for everyone, whether we have papers or not. I say again, we live in a rule of law. And in a rule of law, an order to leave the territory is an order to leave the territory! Of course, it's not obvious. I'd be the last one to pretend it's obvious. I am the person responsible, the person who has to say to 23,500 people every year, "You have to leave the territory." In a rule of law, the rules must be respected, and they must be respected by everyone. Otherwise, there is no rule of law. You proclaim the rule of law loud and clear. I'm defending him just as much as you are. However, I believe that we have a different interpretation of the rule of law. Several speakers spoke of the criteria. Every time, I have to re-explain the very existence of regularization. Why does regularization exist? Criteria exist for coming to work in Belgium. A request must be made to the diplomatic post in the country of origin. Some occupations are in short supply. It is necessary to have the work permit granted by the Regions and the residence permit granted by the federal level. For an asylum application, rules must be followed. We're knocking at the door of the Petit-Château. We're applying for asylum. There is an interview with CGRA, objectively, on the basis of Belgian, European and international law. The criteria are clear and clear. We apply them and determine whether or not international protection is necessary. Criteria are laid down for family reunification. Who's entitled to it or not? Who are the people taken into account? The kids and the partner, but not the uncles and aunts. I could elaborate on this point at some length. Several migration channels exist, with criteria. But, living in a state, we must also have a human look, to sometimes allow an exception for a person who may not meet the criteria exactly. We therefore give him a favor, but we do not give him a right. It is important to recall why regularisation exists and which target groups are not included in regularisation. For example, I remember that the first discussion I had with the undocumented was about stateless persons. I had been asked to ensure that being stateless was a criterion for regularization. I refused. Why? Because I want to go beyond regularization. A stateless person must not apply for a favour. This is a promise made by the government and made by previous governments for a long time. A person who has no country of origin must not ask for a favor. We must grant him the right of residence just as much as to the parents of a little girl who is at risk of genital mutilation. These parents shouldn't be asking for a favor. We're not going to separate the child from the parents. These people have to be out of the regularizations. There should therefore be fewer applications for regularization. Indeed, some people who are now seeking regularization should obtain the right of residence without resorting to regularization. Mr Verherstraeten, you mentioned the regularisations, with the correct figures. In recent years, it has been effective in three thousand cases. This is also the result of the policy we are now pursuing and of the policy that Mr Francken has pursued before, a different policy than in the past. Only a very limited number of people were eligible in the legislative term. It is good that this has happened and that we have a humane view. I had to explain that regularly to organizations that didn't know what the policy was. They often indicated that they had no knowledge of certain issues and I am pleased to be able to clarify them. I am also pleased that you indicate that there are no criteria for CD&V. Mr Segers also said that. People sometimes do not propose to be criteria because certain parties in the opposition are opposed to them. I keep telling you to read the party programmes on it. However, I do not have to do that, I am not a politician at the moment, I am a member of the government. Mr Segers and Mr Verherstraeten have explained their party programme here and this clarification enriches the debate. Mr Segers, I am also pleased that you have indicated that we need to speak with one voice. I have always indicated that I was very satisfied with the way you have handled this as a Member of Parliament. You have always supported the ways we used to find a solution, to get out of the hunger strike. You have also encouraged everyone to speak with one voice. I thank everyone for being here but Mr Segers just a little bit more, because he has always been very consistent in this area and he has done everything he can to prevent anyone from dying. I personally find your question about Myria's study interesting, to see how many people are involved. I even talk sometimes about 100,000 or 150,000 people and I hear these figures elsewhere, but often we do not know exactly how many people are involved. We simply do not know it and must therefore rely on figures that are going around somewhere. It seems interesting to me to be able to map that better, I am certainly open to that. If there are effective methods in other countries that have proven that they work, they can help us understand how large the target group is. Who are these people and how long have they been here? This can help us to tackle the problem even better. That is a good thing. In addition to mapping, a structural approach is of great importance. If we know who they are, we also know how to deal with the problem. Addressing the problem, as you point out, also means tackling exploitation effectively. That too is a message to be shared here in Parliament, by everyone. Regularisation will never be an answer to the fight against undeclared work, so do not say so. People sometimes hear people say that when everyone knows that the manifesto is wrong. Unfortunately, in this country and in the rest of the world, there are crooked employers who want to exploit people. They think they should use people who are willing to work for 3 euros because they have few other choices. We need to be tough on these crooked employers, in every possible way. This can also form part of the Inter-Ministerial Conference in which we will examine how we can tackle the problems in a structural way. Same goes for house milkers. I recently saw footage of the situation in certain cities, where the fungus fell off the wall. People who are particularly vulnerable and exploited live there. We must take this seriously too. We can ask ourselves why someone can stay here illegally for years. Well, because some facilitate that. Those who facilitate it and abuse it must be dealt with effectively. You also asked a question about the reception and orientation projects that exist in Antwerp and Ghent. Those are pilot projects we want to roll out. We look above all at the local authorities, who do a good job. It is good to see that this can be effective, beyond party boundaries. Almost all political parties represented in Antwerp or Ghent participate in this in one way or another. That's good, because that allows us to know to what extent it works. I also went to check out the Netherlands. Pilot projects serve just to find out what works or doesn't work and where they need to be redirected. What doesn't work will be pulled over. What does work, we need to scale up and strengthen. I certainly look forward to doing so in the city of Brussels. It must be possible to do so under the right conditions, with the right group, in the right way and with the right arrangements. This is the case in the Netherlands, where there are clear agreements, including on the way in which reception and orientation are being worked out. For me, there has to be a framework for agreements, because without agreements we come to bad results, after which everyone will sue that it doesn't work. It doesn't work in those cases because the conditions were wrong. That is a very important point. Mrs Matz, you have asked me several questions which are just as important as those of your colleagues. You are referring to the fact that the undocumented do not have the right to employment, it is true, they do not have that right. In itself, when a person is here irregularly, he or she does not have the right to a residence permit. In the absence of a residence permit, she does not necessarily have the right to employment. As I have just told your colleagues, we must combat the fact that people without status can work on a non-regular basis, because they are often exploited by the employer. They work for two or three euros an hour. If "we break our mouths," forgive me for the expression, it's for his own apple! There is no social security! We're not protected enough! We need to be able to protect people. How? By removing them from insecurity and thus from irregularity. This does not mean that we are going to regularize, because some people do not have the right to be on Belgian territory. There are procedures to follow in this regard. I'm not running a fight to be the hardest. As I said, being Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration is not an easy task. In fact, one is sometimes forced to be inflexible and to say no to a person who wants to be on Belgian territory. If tomorrow I move to the United States without taking into account the rules, there will be a person who will be hard on me and will say, "Mr Mahdi, I'm sorry, you have no right to be here. I have to be firm. You have to go back!" It is not obvious, but it is also necessary to do so in a rule of law, where there are rules to follow. My aim is not to be harsh, it is to find structural answers. So half-answers for people who start a hunger strike don't help. Of course, I was firm in my communication from the beginning, I admit; not in a spirit of competition to win the trophy of the firmest man in his communication with people who are here without papers, but I wanted to be the most honest man with them, to tell them exactly what is going to happen and what is not going to happen. It is my duty to be honest with them, hoping that everyone will be honest with me and hoping that it will help undocumented people understand that a hunger strike will not change the situation. You're saying we didn't listen much. I've listened a lot. I am just listening, understanding, trying to see what needs to be done in this country to solve the problems of irregularity, problems that have existed for a long time! There were insufficient structural responses to this problem. Yes, somewhere, we inherit the problems of the past. Listen, I'm just doing this! Listening does not mean doing exactly what people are asking for and what is not in the government agreement or the policy that I am pursuing. You asked me a question about transparency in the criteria. Again, I have to tell you that we are hyper-transparent with respect to the existing criteria on migration. That exists. Sometimes we do favors. If you tell me that you only want transparency and therefore only criteria, at that time we no longer make an exception. It is said that the criteria exist and nothing else. That's not what we have to do in this country! If an 85-year-old woman is in poor health and, on the basis of her situation here in Belgium and in her country of origin, she is thought to be able to be granted a favour, it is granted. If there are parents who have had children in school for years, who are integrated, who do nothing wrong, on the basis of the situation here and in the country of origin, of course, we must be able to grant favors. But this is done on a case-by-case basis, not by reference to criteria. If criteria are established, a new path of regularization is created. That is not our objective! If you are advocating, on the one hand, the use of the criteria and, on the other hand, the possibility of granting favours, both at the same time, thinking of avoiding hunger strikes, I am not sure of the result. A hunger strike can be conducted on the basis of existing criteria. A hunger strike can be conducted on the basis of European and international criteria, on the basis of asylum criteria, on Belgian criteria, on employment and on student visas. We can always start a hunger strike if we think it will have a real impact on political decision-making. No, it will not have an impact on political decision-making! I cannot lead a policy on the basis of a hunger strike. A policy based on a hunger strike would lead to other hunger strikes. So I can't do what you ask. As far as work is concerned, I am not targeting anyone, and not even a particular region. We all have work in Flanders, Wallonia, Brussels. We have the ambition of full employment, everyone must be put to work. I note, however, that we still have a long way to go. We certainly need employees, and today there are job seekers that we should be able to activate. That is our objective and it is on this point that we must work, not on anything else. I will end with respectful and dignified communication. Mrs. Matz, you're right. It is important that the discussion on a very difficult subject and on vulnerable people, who have been a very heated discussion in recent weeks, remains respectful and does not communicate with much drum roll, but clear and honest. Respect is needed in the file. I would like to thank you for your presence, digitally or physically, for the questions you have asked. I hope that in the coming days and weeks, in the discussion on the subject today and in other discussions we can continue to speak with the greatest respect about the people who are the subject of the Committee on Migration. This is very important if we are to achieve a better policy. We have learned over the past few weeks that words do indeed matter, in all directions, from false hope to painful words. In any case, we all have an important role to play in this. We must all avoid a new hunger strike, because that is good for no one, not for me, not for the government and for no one in this country. Let us therefore, above all, continue to work on structural solutions. I am happy to participate in this and I am happy to listen to the solutions you are proposing to avoid that we still have to go through such a situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u17	First of all, I would like to make it clear that I am going to have to say that I, and I think many people with me, think it is rather degout to compare hunger strikers with those who have been victims of terrible floods over the last few days. After all, the hunger strikers themselves chose to migrate illegally to Belgium and Europe and then chose to start a hunger strike and not to feed themselves. They have decided to do so themselves. The people who were victims of the floods, of the past natural disaster and, possibly, of the negligence of certain political authorities and actors, did not choose to do so themselves. So it's pretty degout to put those two at the same height. For the record, this is about Mr Rigot of the PS, who made that comparison. Mr Secretary of State, I still need some clarification. You say that you will not give preferential treatment, but that you will deal with the dossiers as a matter of priority. It may be a bit of a semantic discussion, but when we deal with certain issues as a matter of priority, we do give them preferential treatment. It's as simple as that. The signal you send in reality is that anyone who has to wait for his file to be processed, but does not want to join and stand in line, simply has to stop eating. Anyone who starts a hunger strike or maybe asks a PVDA doctor to get his mouth sewn shut will come straight to the beginning of the line. I think that is a priority approach. I think that is a preferential treatment, contrary to what you claim. Why else would the list exist if these people were not given other priority treatment or preferential treatment? Why do you ask for a list of all these names, if these people are supposedly treated in exactly the same way as all the other applicants? I asked you specifically what happens to the rejected hunger strikers, those who do not get regularization, which I hope will be some. You say that we must re-integrate them towards their country of origin. Of course, this will not happen in a voluntary way for some of these people. You will have to send them back, forced. I wonder how many people will be involved and whether you will succeed. In a few months' time, I will ask you for figures and I hope you will be able to give me concrete figures. I am afraid, however, that you are actually sending a counter-dictoral signal. You say that we must help those concerned by reintegrating them into their country of origin. We must allow them to return voluntarily, forced if they have to, but neither of them is, of course, doing enough. It is contradictory, because at the same time you say that anyone who is now applying for regularisation will be judged more positively if one can show that one is well integrated in our country, for example when one is working in black. In other words, if they commit criminal acts, they will be considered positive in their assessment and their anchoring in Belgium will be assessed positively. So, on the one hand, you say that we must help those who are illegal in Belgium to reintegrate into their country of origin, so in a positive way we must encourage them to return to their home country, which I strongly support. On the other hand, you say to exactly the same group of people - the 150,000 illegals - that if they stay here, they integrate as well as possible, anchor themselves in Belgium, work here in black, they have a better chance of being regularized. Everyone can see that's counter-dictorical. Those two can't go together. So my question is: which path do you choose? You opt for a lot of transparency, the more transparency, the better. You'd like to say anything to us. Then tell us whether Mr Alliet, the priest, the doctors of the world lie when they say that there will be a smoother treatment for the hunger strikers. Do they lie when they say there will be preferential treatment for those people? You say that's not true, they say that's true. Are these people lying or is there an agreement we don't know about at the moment? Some of my questions were easy to answer, but were not answered. How many of the people who have gone on hunger strike are still in the hospital at the moment, whether they are in intensive care or not? That seems to me to be important for the assessment of the hunger strike. Once again, I have not received a specific answer to the question about the master plan for closed return centres. We will come back to that question in the future. To impose medical supervision on the hunger strike seemed to me and many with me to be the logical solution. Usually doctors call angry to the members of the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. Last week, they've been calling me most of the time. I've got several angry doctors on the line, including a lot of people who hold other positions in hospitals. They were very angry, because there were doctors and nursing staff there who urged people to hurt themselves, not to take food and not even to take water at the end. They began to sew their mouths shut. That seems to me to be sufficient reason to intervene. The only answer we get here is that the issue has been examined. You add jokes that you're not a lawyer, unfortunately I'm not just in the middle either. Isn't this clear about the adagium distress breaking the law? Despite a number of legal difficulties, action could have been taken here. There were plenty of ways to intervene. The fact that you don't have a lawyer's degree cannot be an argument. I suspect that there is more than one lawyer working in your cabinet and that there are also people with such a diploma at the Council of Ministers. I think it's weird. You have examined it, but you do not report to the Committee on the Interior why you did not take such action, which could have prevented much misery. In my view, this could have been solved in a more clean way. The essence of the matter is, of course, that we should move towards a different migration model, that we should stop illegal migration, that we should ensure that the 150,000 illegal immigrants in Belgium receive a clear signal that illegal residence will no longer be tolerated, that we will get rid of the tolerance policy and that we will finally implement an active search and expulsion policy. People are talking about people without papers. Illegal people can no longer be said, but those people do have a paper and that is an order to leave the territory. Perhaps we should respond to that rather than respond to blackmail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, you have taken a very long time for your answers. I would like to make a few comments. The crucial question is perhaps whether preferential treatment is being organised for the hunger strikers. Is this at least indirectly encouraging and rewarding hunger tasks? These seem to me to be the crucial questions throughout the debate. I shall then turn to a number of other points. Firstly, after all I have heard, I believe that you are giving preferential treatment here. After all, you have provided a neutral zone. As of Monday, that neutral zone will no longer be accessible to other illegal immigrants. In fact, I have not had an answer to my question as to whether there is a need for an appointment to go there. I also did not receive an answer to the question of who is on that list. Your spokeswoman says the hunger strikers were asked for a list. However, you did not clarify this. Have you received a list of 475 names? How do you check that list? How do you know it's hunger strikers and not family members or others? The persons on that list would be given a personal appointment with representatives of the city of Brussels and your cabinet. In another source it is about representatives of the city of Brussels and the Department of Foreign Affairs. Who's in that neutral zone? Is this about people from the Foreign Office? If so, what service? Who are these people from the city of Brussels? Are there any people from your cabinet there? The latter seems very unlikely to me. I would have liked clarification on this. The persons on that list will receive special treatment that all other illegals who have not gone on hunger strike will not receive, being a personal appointment with an officer of the Foreign Affairs Office to look at the individual file and get information. Other illegals don't get that. They have to call a call center and then they still have to be lucky to get someone to hold because this is usually just for lawyers. This is at least a very important difference from a particular group which does receive preferential treatment. Secondly, the addresses. You also say that the reference address for this group is the city of Brussels. No home check will therefore be carried out. If I have a 9-bis application coming in, as mayor, I'm obliged to have the police run a residence check. If this control of residence falls away, the persons concerned will receive a different treatment that other illegals who have not gone on hunger strike will not have. Thirdly, you confirm that the hunger strikers' files will be dealt with as a matter of priority. Your spokeswoman speaks of a faster treatment. You're talking about as soon as you can. Of course, as soon as possible is not the same as faster. Will you give priority to the hunger strikers' files and therefore treat them more quickly than others? Have you already instructed Mr Roosemont to deal with these files first? Those three specific questions arise from many people. For weeks, your thrill was that you would not give priority to hunger strikers over other people in illegality, in order not to encourage people to starve themselves. If you do so de facto on three points, there is a serious problem with your communication. Can you clarify the list of hunger strikers? Do you have that list yet? When will you have it? Has it been asked? What's the check on that? Who's on that list? You say that you have had many appointments, but they are less relevant than the appointments on Tuesday evening for four hours and 45 minutes with the envoy. Was Mr Roosemont present? Is the information in De Standaard that he was present? There was also an appointment at your cabinet on Wednesday morning. Those two agreements in full government crisis are far more relevant than any other agreements you have had in recent weeks or with other groups of people without a right of residence.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u20	With regard to the suspension of the eligibility condition, you state very clearly that Daniel Alliet's communication in De Standaard is not correct. The admissibility condition is therefore not suspended. So that man isn't telling the truth to De Standaard's journalists. So the neutral zone will be open from Monday, by appointment, specifically for that group? That's how I understand it. You didn't say much about the medical filter either. You're not a doctor, but I want to know if the fact that people are starving will pass through the medical filter. Will it? Is there going to be a directive from the DVZ for the doctors? Is that considered in a uniform way? Will the doctors meet about how they're gonna do that? I suppose there's gonna be something coming at them the next few days. With regard to the sewing of the mouths, you say this is not your jurisdiction. I don't know. You can always stand bourgeois. You can always file a complaint with the public prosecutor. You can always complain to the police about such a practice. You can write a letter to the President of the Order of Medicine of Brussels. Nothing stands in your way to start an investigation. There's a lot being said about it. There's a lot of commotion left. Journalists ask me where they get the information that these doctors do. I think that this should be examined in particular. I've got clues to that. I think that's true. Who else would do it? It would be good if this was investigated. It would be a good thing if people were to be pricked. If you make that complaint, this will be taken very seriously. I'm sure of that. About the cohort and the reporting of this group, you say: if that is GDPR-wise in order, I would certainly like to do so. That's GDPR-wise fine. I don't ask for nationalities or names. I'm just asking how many are on the list you received today. How many are there with a 9-ter procedure in six months? How many are there with a 9a procedure? What's the outcome? How many were taken to a closed center? How much did you get a warrant for? How many have actually been returned? There is nothing problematic about that, GDPR-wise, because this cannot be traced back to individuals. With regard to hunger strike and a form of blacklist, I think we can go a step further. The comparison with Spain, I find shocking. It was said that working in black can be an element to demonstrate integration. I know volunteering is taken into account, but working in black I doubt. That was a criterion for regularization under Wathelet. Under my policy, it seems to me that working in black would have been an element in the assessment of a file. Working in black is always a difficult fact because it has always been considered as an aggravating element on return. The discussion on this is not new. I do not think that working in black is being perceived as positive at the moment. Mr Secretary of State, you state that the appeal procedures are indeed a problem and therefore consider it so important that the migration code should be introduced. I do not believe that this code will solve the problem of appeals. After all, you are completely bound by a European law clause that you can hardly escape. The Bossuyt report also highlights the problem of appeal procedures. Saying it'll be easier with a migration code, I don't know. I note that Green and Ecolo are absent today, do not ask questions. It is the first time they have been absent from the discussion of such an important dossier. I do not know whether to find out, but I do know that the inclusion of criteria in the new code will not be a joke. We will wait and see what will finally be presented in this House. You also said that the number of regularisations under my policy has increased considerably. I'm not denying that. I would like to say a few things about this, because you have repeated it several times. I would like to respond to that, because I know what you mean by that. If you work with percentages, you have to look closely at the bigger picture. The number of regularisations, the applications, has fallen dramatically under my policy. The reason for this is that the applications had to be paid for.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u21	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u22	That was the whole point. It was intended to make people pay so that all that panoply would stop applications and stop all those proceedings if one had to pay for something. Our party does not support this free policy. You say that the percentage of recognition has increased. If the number of applications falls, it is clear that the percentage is increasing. If 300 dossiers are approved on 1,000 applications or on 3,000 applications, there is indeed a difference in percentage. Those are tricks of the foor. In connection with the regularizations themselves, it is true that I have given two orders to my administration. The first was to find a solution to the cases such as Scott Manyo, Parweiz Sangari and Navid Sharifi. You have not seen any such file in recent years. For a person who, as an unaccompanied minor, is due here for his 16 years, who is a scout leader and perfectly integrated, one should not, as a Roman emperor, raise or lower the thumb when he turns 18 and expands the country. That's what kept bothering me with Mrs. De Block. I wanted to do that differently. That's my right. I'm still 100 percent behind it. That's not about a lot of people either. They're other procedures, too. Secondly, I have also tried to find a solution for families with children who were in Belgium for a very long time. As Secretary of State, I often had to deal with action committees of school children. I was sent teddy bears, candles and petitions from teachers, boards and especially parents and children of the class in which the children concerned were sitting. In doing so, they wanted to show that criminals remain here, but in such cases they have been in Belgium for 15 years without harming a fly and still had not received any papers. That is why I instructed the Department of Foreign Affairs to give people with ten-year-old residence, with school children and, of course, a blank record and some signs of integration a regularisation option. I have done so, but I have never communicated widely about this, although I have explained that decision on my website in recent weeks. I omitted wide-ranging communication because, of course, it was not intended that people with illegal residence in other European countries should think that the rules in Belgium became more flexible. If Mrs Matz is talking about l'appel d'air, then that is fictional, but I do not think that can be said anymore today, given the images of the neutral zone that today creates a suction effect, just because of the rumor mill. The suction effect is not fictitious, because there is indeed a very great despair in that population looking for papers. Often those people take straws, to go where it's better, where there's hope on paper. That's just a fact. It's not a big deal either. Probably would do the same. However, it is a fact. That is why I have never communicated widely about my decision at the time, but I still support it. Are many more people regularized by my then decision than before? No, I have made sure, above all, that there are far fewer applications. I still support that, and I see that you support that, as of course CD&V supported the decisions at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u23	Mr Francken, allow me to ask you a question which seems very pertinent to me. You indicate that you have not communicated your instructions at the time to prevent a suction effect. I didn't communicate about the instructions, you were the first to do so a few weeks ago. Why are you communicating about these instructions, when you realise that people in other countries might think that there is a policy in Belgium that makes this possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u24	I communicated that because there was a Babylonian confusion of speech about the difference between collective and individual regularization. That was unbelievable. I've been disturbed by that for some time, in fact since I had the honour and the pleasure to go into the clinch with Melchior Wathelet every week. In 2009, his instruction in this matter was destroyed by the Council of State, following a complaint from Flemish Interest. At that time there was an agreement to proceed to collective regularisation. Flemish interest, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Pas, then challenged it before the Council of State and also won it. Mr Wathelet has been saying all along that it was not about collective regularization but about individual regularizations, cas par cas, case by case. Of course, one always works on a case-by-case basis, which is not the subject of the debate. It was about the fact that he had drawn up a new instruction at the time, after an agreement within the Van Rompuy government. A new instruction was then prepared, including work and undeclared work. By the way, it's completely screwed up. You should read Jan Denys' analysis. Last week I read about the bike ride for collective regularization in Ghent that was a great success. This was then corrected by Belga, in the sense that individual regularisation was demanded, but for all hunger strikers. They all had to get individual papers. I'm sure you've read that, too. Green and Ecolo say all the time that we cannot say that they want collective regulation. We do not want them, they too want individual regularization, but they want everyone to do so. It gives me the creeps. If we say that we are demanding transparent and clear criteria in the law, then I want to make it very clear that they are already there. As you said earlier, there are already very clear and transparent criteria. They're not in a law, they were poured into instructions to the DVZ. On that basis, you can get papers. Otherwise, it won't work unless there's a new instruction. However, you say clearly that you will not give it. In that sense, I would like to clarify the Babylonian confusion of speech on the social media and certainly in the mainstream media. Everything goes fast and journalists have to follow a lot of files, I get that. However, there are many journalists who miss out on regularisations and actually throw a lot of things together. I find that frustrating. We, as policy-makers, are trying to set out guidelines and to carry them out and follow them consistently. When I was asked if I had given new orders on regularization, I always honestly said what I did. I never denied that, just to be clear. I have never denied in the past that new instructions have come under me, but I haven't put that on the big clock. That is a different debate, however, and it does not directly relate to this. Mr President, all this is perhaps relevant and interesting for the years to come, because we will often talk about this. Now I should like to leave it to these comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u25	Knowing that we will receive interim reports on what happens to the dossiers, I believe that this debate has indeed not yet been concluded. I'll see if there's any further replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u26	Mr President, first of all, I must respond to the one I would call a professional liar, Mr. Van Langenhove, caught in flagrant lie in the media. Here he continues his policy: "Think, lie, there will always be something left of it." When he says that PTB doctors sew their lips, it's obviously a dishonest lie. It's an insidious and unworthy way of doing things. With regard to the video mentioned by Mr Mahdi, I imagine, without any certainty, that this is the one where we give the floor to hunger strikers. However, I cannot understand why he is criminalizing her. The hunger strike is not a mode of action defended by the PTB. We will never encourage people without papers to start a hunger strike or to sew their lips, only on the contrary. On the other hand, if undocumented people choose to fight for their rights in this way, we will not oppose this choice. And we will give them the floor, including by video, as we would do for all undocumented people who struggle to defend their rights, regardless of the mode of action chosen. Let's not confuse everything, please! I don't want you to be in the category of dishonest lie, Van Langenhove style, but I ask you to be a bit of judgment in what you're saying. Let's close this parenthesis. Let us go back to the question of the rule of law. Mr Secretary of State, you are telling me that the rule of law is to respect the law. Yes! But it's a little restrictive as a definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u27	Mr Van Langenhove is calling for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u28	You are not telling us that those hunger strikers themselves have sewn their mouths shut. Of course, discussing this is difficult because there are no images of it. Your communist party also sponsored a video on Facebook for two months. It has cost EUR 100 to 120,000 to falsely claim that I would have been awarded EUR 40 to 50 000 for my candidacy on the list of Flemish Interests, which is absolutely useless. I got zero euros. Everyone's confirmed that. That's been checked and proven. And yet that video just stayed online. If anyone is a professional liar, you are, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u29	I do not see the link with the subject we are discussing. I don't even know what video you're talking about. In any case, saying that PTB doctors would have sewed the lips of the undocumented is a dishonest lie. It's not our idea of action. It's not a watchword we're defending. These are not methods we recommend. Never has a PTB doctor done or will do that kind of thing! But this does not, of course, prevent us from supporting the undocumented who struggle for their rights, even if they do so using methods that we do not support. Mr Secretary of State, the rule of law, I said, is not just respecting the law. This is a somewhat restrictive conception of the rule of law. If the law says that women do not have the right to vote, if the law says that workers do not have the right to vote – as was the case at one time in our country – we are not in what we might call a rule of law. In this context, I would even say that respecting the law is against the rule of law. The rule of law is the right that must be respected, but it is also the rights that must be granted to people. People arrived in our country ten, fifteen or twenty years ago. Others were born here, like that 51-year-old woman I told you about earlier. She didn't choose to be born here. This lady is out of law simply because she had the misfortune to be born here. She works, but she has no rights. If after a while people are here, have worked, have paid VAT, have paid rents, have done what everyone does, but a series of rights are denied them, it is normal that the law of a rule of law can confer on them some of these rights to which they are not entitled for the time being. In fact, that is what you are doing too, but not within the framework of clear criteria. You do it in a favor system. You used the word "favour." It's a favor you're doing. So we are not in a rule of law, but in a privileged state. For me, the fact that we do not have objective criteria enshrined in the law opposes the concept of the rule of law. I've already asked you the question. What prevents you from doing the same thing as France, Italy and Spain, which, not secret criteria, but clear criteria in the law? You didn't answer because you don't have an answer. You have no answer, because the answer that you would be obliged to bring has nothing to do with principles that you would defend. It would simply have to do with the electoral battle that you are leading with parties like the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang that put pressure on you. That is simply why you are adopting this policy and you are pursuing this policy which, for me, departs somewhere from the concept of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the clear answers and for the compliment. That is very much appreciated, and it is a pleasure. We're all flesh and blood after all. That is also with great conviction very much welcome if that could help the good thing a little. I would still like to dot the i's, as far as the figures are concerned. The decrease in regularization applications had been in place for a long time. This is also normal after the various rounds that have taken place. The fee has indeed contributed to it and has accelerated it, but it is certainly not because of the fee that the so-called workload has suddenly been so much more limited, although it has certainly strengthened the trend in the very last part of the declining curve, Mr Francken. It is also true that more qualitative applications have been submitted in this way, although it is important to consider whether that balance is right. You are in the process of destroying the Royal Decree by the Council of State. Mr Francken, in absolute figures there has been a triple since 2014. There are more people per file. This is simply a statement, not a criticism. The way you've been looking almost proactively has even been good. Mr Secretary of State, we have shared attention to the underlying problem. Many colleagues also pay attention to this. We share the analysis that regularization does not in itself put an end to structural exploitation systems because after regularization the evil employer simply appoints someone else in illegal residence as cheap labour and then exploits that person. So let us effectively switch and, for example, roll out the maximum scenario for strengthening the ECOSOC inspection service in order to tackle the networks in this way. I hope that all the majority parties and the opposition will be able to support this. I hope that the majority parties will conduct a consistent discourse and fully support that maximum scenario in the government. The priority treatment by the police is also very important for my party. It is a good thing that you are looking at organising the pilot projects in Ghent and Antwerp in Brussels. I also fully agree with you that they should be very focused and on the basis of a very clear framework of agreements. Then let's do it. In view of the great demand of those who are already here, I would suggest that we look at the current situation in the short term in order to see what prospects there are, particularly in order to cope with the intermediate period. The regularisation service has already been extended from 18 to 21 people and you want to strengthen it further. However, that will take some time. We do not know the average running time, but it is certainly very long. It will be a long time before it gets shorter unless it happens immediately. For that intermediate period, more clarity should be provided in the short term for applicants. I myself am working on a number of proposals against malicious employers to tackle not the symptoms but the structures. We all have enough homework for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u31	Anybody want to come in?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u32	I asked a very specific question about that list. Is it true that you asked to deliver that list?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u33	475 people have been part of the occupation and hunger strike. We must limit this to 475, because otherwise everyone will be part of it. It is also important to indicate who is in that neutral zone, because there is a reason why that neutral zone is there. It is also intended to provide the necessary psychosocial guidance there. The people who started a hunger strike are psychosocially traumatized. Some have also felt a certain group pressure, I can say. We need to be able to share that. It is important that the DVZ is present, that the city of Brussels is present and that there is psychosocial guidance. I understand that there is a difference between physical contact or via a call centre with the DVZ, but that difference is not that big. It is important to know who the people are to get that list, which is not there yet, but it should enable us to deal with those files as soon as possible. You also know, Mr Francken, that certain groups need to be helped. I have also said that files that remain for more than two years are often the most technically difficult ones. They must be tackled as a matter of priority. There are a number of groups that need to be tackled as a matter of priority. There is not a group above the rest, but extra attention needs to be paid to certain groups. This group will also receive the necessary attention. They also asked about the house control. Well, it is carried out by the city of Brussels afterwards. Questions were also asked about Article 9b and are starving, in particular whether guidelines are given to doctors. I assume you know the procedures. A doctor submits a medical certificate and after that there is effective control by a doctor of the Foreign Affairs Office, in order to determine whether the person concerned can receive the treatment required in the country of origin. It may be dangerous for the person concerned to return to the country of origin in view of the medical situation. However, the reality is that this is not the case for most people, they are not eligible for the application of Article 9b. However, the medical check-up should always be carried out. Mr Van Langenhove, you are right, I am not a lawyer. That is a justified point, but I would like to point out that we must have sufficient elements to enable us to act. However, I hear from the burden of proof you put forward that it is often about something that has been heard or certain indications. You say certain doctors have called you, and I think you should pass that information on to the court. If I get certain information, I'll do what's necessary, and I think you should do the same. Only if there is sufficient evidence can immediate action be taken. After all, it must not be the case that we cannot act because of group pressure which assumes unacceptable proportions. So we can only act if there is sufficient evidence and it is never too late to pass that information on. For my part, I have always done everything I can to do with every element I've gotten. Mr Van Langenhove, you have asked another question about integration. That's a small weight. When it comes to parents with school children who have been here for a while and for whom a new instruction has been given, that is one of the elements that may or may not be relevant to the question. If someone doesn't integrate at all, doesn't bother at all, that's a reason to assume that one will just make no exception for that person. One has to turn it around, too. It is good if people are doing something right, unfortunately, in anticipation of their procedure................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you have to wait two years, I would prefer two years of volunteering rather than two years of doing nothing. I understand the comment for the rest, but in this context it can make a difference in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u34	Mr Secretary of State, there will be a list of 475 names. It will be drawn up by the people themselves. We will ask for this further through written questions, because we normally do not see each other in the next few weeks. Faster treatment therefore involves certain priority groups on that list. So not the whole list is treated as a priority, but a number of people on that list, for example people who have been in proceedings for more than two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u35	No, Mr Francken, the group is included in the many others which are already a priority. We shall therefore take this 475 as a priority. I really understand your question about the reasons. Well, I don't think anyone's starting a hunger strike from the idea that an application could be dealt with by that hunger strike not only after a year, but after six months. So I do not think there is a danger of sudden hunger strikes and occupation. However, if it can help to ensure that people stop their hunger strike and leave the Beguinage Church, the ULB or VUB, then I think it is acceptable that we should deal with their dossier quickly. I wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u36	So, Mr Secretary of State, the whole list drawn up by that NGO itself is being treated as a priority. This is a preferential treatment, which cannot be called otherwise. You can say that this does not create a suction effect, but in itself it is a preferential treatment to other groups. Hunger strikers are therefore treated as a priority when examining applications under Articles 9a and 9b. The control of residence is carried out by the city of Brussels, but that of course applies only to those who live in Brussels. Suppose that of those 475 people someone is dominated in my commune of Lubbeek and that that person decides to take part in a hunger strike in Brussels to obtain papers. I hope that the services or police in Brussels will not come to my territory to check whether that person actually lives there, as this would exceed certain powers. On my territory, as mayor, I am responsible for public policy, not the Brussels mayor, Mr Close. Again, I can only say that there are certain preferences. Firstly, only those present in the neutral zone can effectively come into contact with an official of the Foreign Office. Secondly, housing control will not be applied to everyone, although it is legally defined. Thirdly, the dossiers are dealt with as a matter of priority. This is at least not entirely in line with what has been reported in recent weeks and months. I understand that, of course, it is not obvious and that a certain breakthrough is needed. I would like to conclude by saying that, of course, our party is very pleased that the hunger strike has ended. That turned out to be a doubt, as if I would enjoy the hunger strike continuing. Of course, that is not the case. The sooner a hunger strike is done, the better. For all I care, participants in a hunger strike will be blacklisted, which simply means that a hunger strike will no longer be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u37	Mr President, Mr Francken, it is good that you say that. The only thing that has disturbed me is that you immediately say about communication that appears somewhere within the second, "As I said, papers for everyone or they will get papers." I find that difficult to accept. Your work on the committee today is good. You ask questions and see how far we go. We will effectively try to guide people in a neutral zone who have had a difficult period. I think it's a good thing they get an answer soon. I understand the reaction that other people also deserve an answer quickly. I don't have a problem with that. It's really just about the way you sometimes say things: "Voilà, they get papers. I told you so ' From someone with experience in this department, I expect him to deal with it in the right way. That's the only point I've tried to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, of course I read in De Standaard that the admissibility phase is being suspended. I asked the chairman last weekend and officially by e-mail this week to convene the committee. We are therefore mainly here on my question, of course thanks to the President and the President of the Chamber in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It'll be in the paper in a minute. It's like Philippe Boucké saying he got fired. The minister says, however, that he has resigned himself. Then I don't know who's telling the truth. That's very bizarre. Yesterday it was even more bizarre. However, I have more faith in your words than in Minister Dedonder's. I can only observe that, if that is the case effectively and the admissibility phase would have been suspended..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's a fact. Those are papers for at least a few months. The appeal procedure following a negative stage of merits may take years before the French-speaking Chamber. You're working on it. I tried, too. We'll see where we end up. They get de facto papers, that's not a lie. With an AI you can ask the OCMW for support, an equivalent living wage. An OCMW chairman can't even refuse that. I'm chairman of the permanent bureau. I know what I'm talking about. What I'm saying wouldn't even be wrong if it was right what Daniel Alliet said. However, you are saying that this is not right. Okay, I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-23-definitief-55-commissie-ic562x.u39	Can I close the debate, which I found particularly interesting? I am pleased that we have called the committee together at the request of Mr Francken. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his thorough explanation and the long time he has allowed to answer all the questions. I hope to be able to wish everyone a good vacation. Hopefully we'll meet again in the month of September and not earlier.
