ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u1	(...) a number of services would have too many square metres and others would have a shortage. Your second question, the current campus of Justice Leuven comprises four buildings. I'll get you the exact details in writing. It concerns accommodation in the courthouse, Smoldersplein 5, the outbuilding in Vaartstraat 5, in the (...)college in Vaartstraat 24 and in the house of the lawyers in Rijschoolstraat 9. The number of square meters and the exact functions I will give you immediately. A possible scenario to meet the aspirations for the expansion of various services is the integration of the police court in Rue Vaart 24. If a study demonstrates the feasibility of this scenario and a consensus can be reached with the executive committee of peace judges and police judges, additional space will be available at Smoldersplein 5 for the expansion of other services. Finally, of course, my services are prepared to hold any consultations. You know that. On the basis of the available data, it is rather an internal redistribution of available square meters and an internal recast of services rather than a development of a master plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u2	I would like to thank the Minister for his clarification, which is important in order to respond to today's unrest. It's true what you're saying about the division of duty. The people are up to the ridge of the roof packed on top of each other without air conditioning. This way of working today does not meet the modern conditions. I would therefore urge you to ensure that these studies are carried out quickly. There's always unrest there. You say that the Government of the Buildings is examining whether everything can be done in the current building, and if it is not, there is an alternative to the Luxembourg College. That contradicts what your colleague Minister said about it in another written question. I hope that this year we will be able to make a decision so that we can avoid the vacancy in Leuven. The Luxembourg College is a large building and this can be very usefully completed. If the court needs space, we'd like to know very quickly. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u3	Minister, you stated in an interview on the radio that the fight against phishing, against cybercrime, is a priority for justice. That is a very good approach for which I would like to thank you. You have also announced that there is a plan of EUR 30 million to be released to the police forces. In addition, you also want banks to exchange information to block accounts faster. However, this is a problem because there are so-called mule accounts used by a number of people to obtain money from unsuspecting victims. That money will soon be transferred to other accounts. We see the banks have a problem. If an account is classified as a mule account, it is not always evident to inform other banks of this because of GDPR legislation. How do you see the implementation of the EUR 30 million? Do you have a very specific plan or is it rather an intention to do something about it? Is that the amount for the recruitment of additional people or is it an amount that goes to the CCB? Will you develop your own software? What can we learn from abroad? Is there a problem with GDPR when exchanging information between banks? Are there any legal changes needed to allow this to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u4	Thank you very much for your questions, Mr Freilich. In this committee, I already answered similar questions from Mr Moyaers on 31 March. So I'm going to sum up. It is difficult for us to look alongside the spectacular increase in the number of facts of phishing. Pano correctly presented the police-registered facts of phishing. It is staggering to know that EUR 34 million was stolen last year just because of phishing. Probably the full figures are much bigger. This is due not only to the digitisation of society but also to corona. Youth gangs can now be harder on the streets but literally and figuratively rob people from behind their PCs. Police and Justice have already been able to expose and roll up gangs. These are not always the easiest investigations because perpetrators operate anonymously from behind their computer and often from abroad. That doesn't have to be said here. Police and the Justice Department are adapting. Good practices already exist locally and what our police and justice realizes in the Sky ECC file is an illustration of that adaptability. But the digitalisation of society requires much more adaptability. That's why we also invest in security in the virtual world. In concrete terms, we are going to spend EUR 5 million with the Justice Department as part of the additional resources of the Justice Department for specialised cybermagistrates and support staff. It's about 33 people in the next few years. We are going to invest EUR 32 million extra in NTSU-CTIF. That's the federal police department working on intercepting and intercepting data. With this budget, new technologies can be developed and new software purchased. In the federal police, we are also opening 125 profiles to IT specialists. These have already been opened up. More people and resources are a good start, but it will be important to focus on clearer information management and flow between the partners involved in order to avoid duplication and inefficiencies. You ask what we have learned from abroad. I have already said that police and justice are adapting and developing new practices and work modules. It goes without saying that they also look abroad. Your fifth and sixth questions, together with Febelfin, we are developing a toolbox to improve the exchange of fraud-sensitive information between banks. Of course, the GDPR standards are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u5	Thank you, Minister. In the relay plan, I saw that a sum of about EUR 30 million is reserved for data and interception. Is that about the same thing? You're talking about the resources of the Justice Department. This would be about the relance that still has to be presented to the European authorities. I'm not sure that's about the same thing, and I'll look into that too. In any case, it is important that you provide resources for this because it is clear that cybercrime, phishing and others are on the rise. We have to see that if there are fewer youth gangs on the streets, we can see that they are digitally active.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u6	Mrs. Jadin and Mrs. Chanson are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u7	Madam President, Mr Lanjri, the approach to violence against the police is described in COL 10/2017 and the approach to violence against professional groups, as described in Article 410a of the Criminal Code, is described in COL 3/2008. Violence against aid workers cannot be allowed, and severe action must be taken against them. The current corona period does not make the situation any easier. My contacts with the professional groups showed that there is no immediate demand for stricter penalties, but they want to see consistent and rapid action taken and good communication from the police and the public about the action taken. The violence against aid workers described in article 410a of the Criminal Code, such as doctors and nurses, was recently discussed in the College of Attorney General. The article has been evaluated and re-evaluated and will be applied rigorously with a view to a quick, appropriate and tailor-made approach by the police forces and the public prosecutors. The police services will respond quickly and adequately and will make it clear to the perpetrator of the facts that his or her behaviour is being rejected. In serious cases, the court will immediately be informed by telephone in order to have the opportunity to take necessary measures, such as deprivation of liberty and arraignment with personal interview of the defendant by the parquet magistraat. I have asked the police and the judiciary to look closely at the strict application of these directives. It is also important to pay attention to consultation and communication with the relevant professions. The College of Attorneys General has declared its willingness to consult with the umbrella organisations. Mrs Lanjri, I come to your second and third questions. With regard to the treatment of the sexual criminal justice section, it was agreed at government level to proceed as soon as possible with the new Criminal Code as a whole. Book I, which contains the general principles, will be reviewed this week with the experts of the new Criminal Code. Book II follows. I put a question to the Justice Commission a few months ago to list all the useful legislative proposals and deliver them to me. I have received this list, Madam President, for which I am grateful. Also the useful input from the police was obtained, with which the experts started to review Book II. Where necessary, they will adapt in the light of the proposals made. Afterwards both Book I and Book II are discussed in the IKW. That'll be before the summer. We want to come to Parliament as soon as possible with a draft of the new Criminal Code. It was a long introduction, but specifically in reply to your question on the increase in maximum penalties for violence against aid workers, I can tell you that this is indeed contained in the new preliminary draft. The preliminary draft of the new Criminal Code contains a clear definition of a person with a social function. The list shows that this is a non-limitative case of a policeman, a doctor, an ambulanceman, a nurse. The aggravating circumstance of current Article 410a is maintained, and there will be a future Article 189 which will punish a person with a social function as a separate criminality very clearly and severely. The new Criminal Code will work with criminal levels. There is a level 2 punishment, i.e. imprisonment from three months to two years and a heavy fine up to even a level 5 for certain cases. Level 5 in the new Criminal Code is equivalent to the punishment for, for example, trafficking in human beings. Finally, I shall read out my last point in French, because the question had been put in French by the Member of Parliament concerned. I would like to make the following comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I asked a third question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u9	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u10	You have not yet answered the third question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u11	Madam President, I did. My answer is for the second and third questions. I'm still giving my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u12	First, the Minister has the floor and then Mrs Lanjri can reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u13	Finally, I would like to make the following comment. I assume that the questions in French have been asked following an article by La Meuse in which a first aider tells how he was victimized and complains about the judicial follow-up. After receiving information from the competent prosecutor's office, I have received very detailed explanations from the prosecutor, which are not very similar to what is said in the press. I am not saying this in order to launch a polemic, but because we must be careful when judging the work of judges on the basis of a press article and not to condemn them. Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, I have just answered your second and third questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u14	Madam President, Minister, we have worked together in the past. You know I'm impatient sometimes. In this respect, however, my impatience may not be unfounded. After all, we know that the aid workers have been waiting a long time for this legislation to be amended. I've been following the file myself for two years. I am not a member of the Committee on Justice, but the issue is very close to my heart. I know that Minister None had included this in his draft. In the meantime, we have had new elections. However, it all takes so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u15	I've been working as a minister for six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u16	It has yet to come back on the agenda of an IKW. After the summer of 2021 it will then have to be submitted to Parliament, I understand. My third question to you was the following. You have also highlighted from the Criminal Code the piece on sexual crimes, to deal with it as a priority, which is understandable. However, in my opinion, the part about the aid workers is at least as important. My third question was, therefore, whether we could apply this method of working also in the area of violence to aid workers. Can we get that part out of the design so it can go faster? Otherwise, it will take months. I am also expressing the impatience of the sector itself. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u17	We support the bill that was already in place. It just needs to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, if you have listened carefully to my reply, you will have heard that I have indicated that, firstly, the part goes hand in hand with the major reform of the Criminal Code and, secondly, that the most important thing is for the aid workers to ask for effective action to be taken on their complaints. Mrs Lanjri, that was my answer. That is also the government's position.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u19	Madam President, Minister, I will return to the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u20	Madam President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, the imam of the Yesil Camii Mosque, the so-called green mosque in Houthalen-Helchteren, has been in the news several times in recent months. Unfortunately, that was not always in a positive way. For example, he has spread a message on his social media explaining in a very discriminatory way why homosexuality is forbidden in Islam and that homosexuality causes illness and decay. Your Secretary of State Mahdi was right to believe that there is no place for such people who sow hatred in our society. He also announced not to renew the Turkish Imam's residence permit. There would also have been an order sent to the imam in question to leave the territory. Your colleague in the Flemish government, Minister Somers, is right to say that he wanted to withdraw the recognition of the mosque in question. The latter did not happen despite the tough statements in the press. I will ask your colleague Mahdi on Friday 23 April 2021 whether the first has happened. As Minister of Justice, of course, you also have a responsibility in this. At the end of January 2021, the Province Council, the City Council, the representative body, the Honor Service Board and yourself were asked to provide advice within 60 days. That is why I would like to ask you a few questions. Has a criminal investigation been initiated following the criminal statements of the aforementioned Turkish imam? If not, why not? Are you still planning on doing that? Have you given any advice? What was that advice about? Was the identity of the hateful imam disclosed to the OCAD and is this person further followed? How many imams are active in Belgium that are followed by the OCAD? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u21	Madam President, Ms Ponthier, following the homophobic statements of the Diyanet Director in Turkey, Ali Erbas, the imam of the Yesil Camii in Houthalen shared a number of messages on his Facebook profile to support Ali Erbas. The messages mainly contain statements from Ali Erbas. In these reports, among other things, it is said that "Islam curses homosexuality" and that it "only brings decay." In addition, the hashtag alierbasyalnizdegildir. The imam also thanked someone who had said in response to one of these messages that homosexuality is "a virus of secularism and democracy." Such statements are impossible to reconcile with the social values and standards we promote and defend in our country. In other words, this is problematic and I hope that no one will contradict me in this. I shall then come to your first question. I do not comment on the criminal nature of the statements. The court will decide on this, taking into account the constitutional principle of freedom of expression, versus its criminal restrictions. In the present case, no criminal investigation was initiated and, in addition, no criminal complaint was brought by the interested parties to the public prosecutor's office. Once again, apart from the criminal guilt of such statements, they are in any case moral and socially unacceptable. The reaction of Secretary of State Mahdi was therefore justified. In addition, Flemish minister Somers started a procedure to withdraw the recognition of the mosque. This procedure is still ongoing. As for your second question, the person and his statements are known to the OCAD and the security services. They were also featured on an LTF. The person is not included on the list of terrorists managed by the OCAD. He does not meet the criteria for this, because there must be an extremist ideology, and there must be an appeal or an incentive for violence, or the person in question must commit violence. That does not alter the fact that such a person and his statements are being followed. It is precisely because of the information provided by the security services that these facts have come to light. In reply to your third question, I can tell you that the security services follow personalities in the light of possible threats, and not on the basis of, for example, an imam function in a mosque. You can understand that I cannot give you any figures on ongoing investigations by the intelligence services. I have already told you that there are people on the terrorist list - the common data list - when there is both extremist ideology and violence. In the GGB there are five individuals included as hate propaganda who are still part of a non-approved religious institution or mosque. This is not always about imams, but there is a commitment to the religious institution they are part of. There are also five individuals included in the GGB as a hate propagandist who performed an imam function in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u22	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I did not hear you answer my question as to whether you had given an opinion and what that opinion meant. However, the question was put to you as Minister of Justice. That should have been done within 60 days, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u23	We are trying to speed up the procedure because we have identified quite a few bureaucratic obstacles in the directives. So we're adjusting them.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u24	Mr Vice Prime Minister, please allow me to say that it is quite simple. It is a man with an exemplary role who has once been given the right to work in our country and who then makes such criminal statements: 'homosexuality is a virus, a disease and causes decay, it is the greatest threat in our society'. This must be followed up. That man must be held responsible for those statements. I note that you, too, are barely responding and tolerate the fact that such things in our society should simply be allowed to happen without any consequences being attached to them. You simply did not answer the specific question about giving an opinion. I notice that you participate in the municipal board of Houthalen-Helchteren and with the provincial council, who claim that they are not competent. The Flemish government also appears to be withdrawing its tail. For the time being, I am giving Minister Somers the benefit of the doubt, but when it comes to withdrawing recognition, he is now, at least for the time being, not at home, giving hateful messages or not. I find that heavenly, and I find that particularly painful to see. I expected a stronger signal from you. Apparently, there is no such thing as a strong commitment to homophobia. I therefore ask you to deliver this opinion quickly, to show the necessary decisiveness and clarity and to do so in close consultation with your colleague, Mr Mahdi, whom I will be questioning on Friday, as I have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u25	In the past, we have often asked questions about vaccination in prisons, because it has been clear for a few months now that this would be important and that advice was certainly not to be forgotten. The question has become partly without a subject, because we have in the meantime taken note of the decision to vaccinate the staff, as well as part of the prison population. So I will confine my question to what is most important now, namely what is the state of play and what timing was agreed. I tabled my question a few weeks ago because I had heard that in Brussels people were already vaccinating prison staff, while in other regions this was not yet the case. I thought that was a bit strange, because I would expect a national strategy. I have also specifically asked what proportion of staff has already been vaccinated in the various regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u26	I have a different approach than my colleague Van Hecke. I am referring to the Royal Decree extending a number of measures under the Law of 20 December 2020, which contains provisions in the fight against Covid-19, which you have issued. The measure relating to early release was extended from 31 March to 30 June and that relating to the interruption of the sentence until 15 July. These measures are still motivated by the need to reduce the prison population in order to better manage the sanitary crisis there. The sanitary crisis is, of course, a reality, as the facts of the last few weeks show. But the new thing is that this time you have also referred to the vaccination campaign, which still has to start well and will take some time in prisons. After everything we have learned in the media, I would like to hear how this vaccination campaign will continue and how it will now be dealt with in practice. The question is, in particular, what happens to the measures when vaccination is carried out, Mr Minister? Will they be reviewed? Or is caution necessary, as is the case with the rest of society? Will the penalties continue to apply despite the vaccinations? Or is a balance sought? Are the dates of 30 June and 15 July fixed dates? Or will you evaluate in the meantime? Will you not then extend the measures or perhaps even abolish them, so that we can gradually move back to normal operation? In any case, you will need an important plan to normalize the execution of the sentence. What's that plan gonna look like? If the vaccinations have been carried out - hopefully soon - normal action should still be able to be resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u27	Mr Minister, I had first tabled an oral question, which I subsequently turned into an interplay, because this is a serious problem. There is rightly a strike commitment, as you have also acknowledged. The death of a 35-year-old employee of the prison of Ghent after a corona infection is already the third death - after the director of the prison in Leuven and a colleague in the covid department in the prison in Lantin, the proverbial drop for the trade unions is right. The situation in many prisons, you witnessed this yesterday, I heard in the news - is particularly bad: it goes from overcrowding and poor ventilation to old buildings with insufficient sanitary facilities. At the moment, however, there are serious outbreaks of corona in several prisons. In Antwerp, the A-wing, a large wing, is completely quarantined. Also in Hasselt, part of the prison is in quarantine, as well as in Dendermonde and Ghent. Minister, the trade unions have been asking for months, without success, that staff and prisoners should be given priority in vaccination. We, too, have already questioned you about this. Meanwhile, there is a positive evolution in the file. Health ministers have decided that prison staff will be given priority and will be included in the current vaccination campaign for 65-plussers and people with an underlying condition. I am satisfied with that, even if it should have been done much earlier. We have been able to hear your views through the media. You also immediately and rightly supported this request from the trade unions. Mr Minister, why was it so long before that decision was taken? How is there another vaccination strategy for prison staff depending on where they work? In Brussels, for example, prison staff have been given priority, not in Flanders and Wallonia. Has there been any consultation with the communities and regions? Can you give a full overview of all the initiatives taken since the start of the corona crisis to protect and support the staff in prisons? What resources have been made available for this? I would also like to have an overview of the number of prison staff who have been infected since the start of the corona crisis on 13 March 2020 and whether or not they should be hospitalised. Are there any prisons where a high number of infections threaten the general service at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u28	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to express my full support and condolences to the prison officers who have just announced a strike notice for April 26, 2021 following the death of their colleague Valérie, a 35-year-old officer at Ghent Prison. For months, trade unions and agents have been warning about the situation in prisons, but their call remains unanswered, as if these workers did not exist. This tragedy could have been prevented by accelerated vaccination of staff. As your office certainly knows, the covid hit particularly hard in the prisons of Namur, Hasselt, Merksplas or Forest. On Monday, you finally recognize that there is an urgent need for priority vaccination plans for prisons. This morning, we learned of the existence of an important cluster in Ghent prison with 31 confirmed infections, but the Administration still refused to declare the prison in lockdown. It seems that, since then, the lockdown has been declared. I'm waiting for your confirmation on this. Managing the health crisis in prisons is like managing the entire crisis and Belgium today: a failure and an example of surrealism. For example, Brussels has decided to place workers in prisons on the list of priority occupations, but so far this is not the case in Flanders or Wallonia. It is not known who is responsible for this situation between the Regions, the Communities and the federal government. Minister, I have already asked you about the vaccination plan on March 26 and April 4, 2021. Today, I hope to have satisfactory answers. What are the effective measures taken to vaccinate prison staff and detainees? What is the vaccination schedule? What measures are concerned with staff? What measures are concerned with detainees? Can you give us a clear picture of all the decisions that are known to date? What are the responsible entities (Regions, Communities and Federal) in this vaccination plan for prisons and SDSs? Can you detail and clarify each person's skills and role? Finally, what measures are being taken today to protect detainees, staff and families?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the start of the corona crisis, protective equipment has been provided for our staff: mouth masks, hand gel, gloves, splashes, aprons and hairnets, plexi screens, depending on the situation and the need. There's no shortage of material. Internal working procedures have been thoroughly adapted to ensure that work is as safe as possible. All adapted procedures and instructions have been made available to the staff. Depending on the sanitary crisis and the decisions of the Consultation Committee, measures can be strengthened and relaxed. A FAQ has been launched and communication material has been provided for the purpose of information. A free number has also been made available for employees who need a listening ear. Purchases have been made to protect staff and prisoners. A total of EUR 3.3 million has been made available for this purpose. Contrary to what is the case with prisoners, we do not have reliable figures on covid contamination among staff. After all, they are tested outside the prison and are not obliged to report any contamination. This is covered by medical confidentiality. We can give figures of the number of employees absent on a daily basis. On the date of 15 April 2021, 75 persons absent from a quarantine attestation and 965 persons absent from a disease attestation shall be considered. This concerns, for the sake of clarity, all absences due to illness, not just because of corona contamination. To give you an idea, I will compare the figures before the start of the pandemic: on 15 April 2019, two years ago, there were 849 people absent due to illness. Mrs Dillen, services could be compromised in prisons where, on the one hand, there are many sick people due to an internal infection, and, on the other hand, there is a partial or general lockdown. The extent of the impact depends on the concrete measures and the duration of the lockdown. The measures taken may include physical visits, walks and activities, employment, showers and transfers. Contacts with PSD, medical services and assistance are always guaranteed, albeit with strict conditions. A complete or partial lockdown has been imposed in Hoei, Nivelles, Ypres, Sint-Gillis (twice), Merksplas, Bruges, Ittre, Marche-en-Famenne (twice), Dinant, Marneffe, Doornik, Namur, Hasselt, Paifve, Dendermonde, Jamioulx and since today also in Ghent. With regard to the questions put by Mr Boukili and Mrs De Wit concerning vaccination, who vaccinates, the deliveries... well, that is the competence of the Länder. That is so enshrined in our state reform. Fortunately, there is as much coordination as possible in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. In its opinion, the High Health Council made it clear that prisons are closed collections and should therefore be vaccinated as soon as possible. On Monday, therefore, the IMC Public Health decided in my presence that the staff employed in prisons should be vaccinated as soon as possible. In addition, interned persons and prisoners over 65 years of age or vulnerable should also be vaccinated as soon as possible. The other prisoners will then be discussed at the beginning of phase 2, the stage in which the general population is vaccinated, as you know. How will we proceed in practice? The prisoners will be vaccinated by teams of nurses who will go to the different prisons. These teams will not vaccinate personnel. The staff will be vaccinated by Empreva, the competent occupational health service of the government. Empreva wants to provide mobile vaccination centres that will go to the different prisons. A system of calls and appointments will be developed for our staff. The vaccines will be delivered next week. The next week vaccination will start, but at the moment we are negotiating with DG EPI and a number of other services on the actual completion of this operation. Prior to last Monday's decision, the following categories were already vaccinated: the permanent team of the surveillance and care staff in the covid departments and the responsible regime directors, the permanent team of the monitoring and care staff in the departments which are similar to the residential and care centres or the health care institutions and the responsible regime directors, and the detainees residing in departments similar to the housing and care centres or the healthcare institutions in Merksplas, Saint-Hubert and Paifve. In other words, these vaccinations came because they were consistent with health care institutions. Of course, it was a very limited number. Of course, that doesn't apply to the entire prison system. In addition, the staff of the Brussels prisons have indeed been summoned by the Brussels authorities, which are the Joint Community Commission. The GGC has done so because it is competent and because the vaccinations in Brussels are at present farther advanced than those in Flanders and Wallonia. Those people were invited through the regular vaccination centers. The vaccination of prison staff in Brussels did not take place in prisons. This happened before the decision of the IMC Public Health last Monday. Then I come to Mrs De Wit's questions concerning the degree of punishment. The policy in prisons is a maximum reflection of the decisions taken by the Consultation Committee and is based on the Sciensano recommendations. A balance is always sought between the different interests, as in the free society. The effects of the prison sanitation crisis are closely monitored and, as soon as the situation permits, the measures can be reviewed. However, it is not true, Mrs De Wit, that the execution of the sentence is on hold. Inmates who have been released from prison due to an interruption of sentence can actively work on their reintegration. Leaves and exit permits are currently suspended in order to avoid frequent contact with the outside world. However, exceptions are still possible in the context of the concrete preparation of prisoners' reintegration plans. The staff of the psychosocial services and the employees of the federated entities continue to make an active offer in the context of the execution and reintegration, although in an adapted form due to covid. Just as in the free society, we constantly evaluate the situation and will gradually allow relaxation, where possible. We take into account the situation in prisons, but also the situation in the free society. As regards your questions relating to 30 June and 15 July, interim evaluations will be carried out. If the evolution of the health crisis in prisons shows that the measures can be stopped in a safe manner, that will also be the case. In relation to your question about the plan to return to normal operation, there are specific instructions for managing the health crisis. If the situation permits, the instructions will be relaxed or lifted, and the normal instructions will become applicable again and the operation will therefore be normalized. This can happen in stages, as in the summer of last year. However, we now want to focus on vaccination as a priority and in the meantime we are constantly looking at whether normalising measures are possible. I think I answered all the questions. Of course, the decision that was taken last Monday is important. As I said publicly, I supported the union's request. I was present twice at the BMI Public Health, where I defended, among other things, the idea that prisons are closed communities, such as health care centres or others. Fortunately, we were able to find with the nine ministers responsible for public health an action plan that I have described to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u30	Minister, I know that you have been working for the accelerated vaccination of prison staff and prisoners for some time now. I questioned you about this on 10 March, following the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Bioethics, in which it was clearly stated. I also understand, however, that there are a lot of questions from professional categories who want priority. Moreover, it is not always popular to argue for the accelerated vaccination of prisoners. Let's be honest, if we had asked that publicly 2 or 3 months ago, I would have liked to see the newspaper comments on some sites. This is easier if there is a dramatic situation, as we have unfortunately seen with the staff. This is a justified decision because the situation is similar to that of a residential care centre or other institution where people live close to each other. So it's a logical decision. I believe, however, that it has taken a little too long, and we should have cut that knot earlier. That's not your fault. I don't want to point my arrows at you. In fact, it was a collective responsibility; we should have acted more quickly. The only ones left to wait are those inmates who are not at risk and who are not over 65 years of age. However, the question is whether it is wise to wait for the general phase 2 to also vaccinate that target group. Since people live so closely together, I think it is necessary to vaccinate those prisoners as a priority. Otherwise, I fear that the quoted list of lockdowns and measures taken will grow in the coming weeks. I don't know if this option exists, maybe the spirits will have to ripen a little. However, I would like to ask you to try to vaccinate all prisoners earlier and not to wait for phase 2 for those under 65 who are not at particular risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u31	Madam President, Minister, I hope that the vaccination campaign will not only be carried out within a closed collection such as a prison, but will continue to run smoothly everywhere. After all, there will always be someone who thinks she should be vaccinated sooner than others. That's one of the hardest discussions there is. I certainly hope that when the decision is taken, it can proceed smoothly and quickly. I also hope that this will lead to normality as soon as possible, including in this sentence. After all, you say that it will not be withdrawn, but, Minister, it is literally decided that certain non-urgent penalties should not be applied for the time being. Then it's on hold, maybe not everything, but it's on hold. I fully understand the circumstances, both working and living conditions, but there are also core tasks. So I'm a little concerned on all fronts. I am certainly going to follow it further, and I indeed hope that these measures can be abolished as soon as possible and that the sentence can be implemented in full. I also hope that our society, all other sectors and facets, can resume normal rhythm as soon as possible. Madam President, Mrs Dillen has informed me that she has been called to plenary. That is where we are dealing with a resolution. She'll be back as soon as she can. That will be too late for the reply, but for the next question I will wait for her.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear a vaccination plan is planned. I hope that it will be implemented and that the deadlines will be respected. We will follow this closely to avoid the tragedies we experienced last week. Unless I'm mistaken, I didn't hear you about the cluster in Ghent Prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u33	I said it in Dutch. Starting today, part of Ghent prison is in lockdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Goffin's 55016356C lapses as he hasn't reported anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, part of the answer is in French, as Mr Goffin had also put a question on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u36	That's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u37	I always try to put the questions together for clarity. I will try to answer all your questions. The interesting judgment you are referring to, ladies and gentlemen, is not yet final. This is the first judgment handed down by the European Court of Human Rights following its pilot judgment of 6 September 2016. The Court had frozen all similar petitions so that we could take structural measures to reform the internment. The judgment just delivered is nuanced, the decisions are different for each of the five applicants. The Court noted the measures taken by Belgium which have led to a significant reduction in the number of internees detained in prisons. The Court also notes that many places outside prisons have been established over the last five years, particularly in legal psychiatry centres where the care of internees is satisfactory, according to the most recent report of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. To my knowledge, 75 old similar applications are still pending at the Registry of the Court. Once this final judgment has been delivered, the Court will deal with these 75 applications on the basis of the principles laid down therein. I am, of course, very aware of the fact that interns do not belong in prison and have the right to care. There have been many good initiatives taken in the past by my predecessors, and more is planned, but it is a complex problem that cannot be resolved in the short term. I shall come back to the initiatives taken in the answers to your next questions. Secondly, a question from Mr Goffin. What measures have been put in place following the relevant Court judgments in 2012, 2016 and 2019? The measures put in place are both legislative initiatives and concrete measures. A new legal framework was needed to respond to the criticism that more guarantees of legal certainty should be offered to internees. Since 1 October 2016 – and I welcome the presence of Mr Geens – a new law on internment has come into force. The measures contained therein aim to improve the situation of internees in Belgium within the meaning of Article 3 of the European Court of Human Rights. As part of the multi-year internment plan, the following initiatives have been developed to develop the care system. Prior to the arrests, local care teams had already been established in prisons and collaboration with federated entities had been improved. Subsequently, an increase in the number of places in the existing mid-care system was undertaken, as well as in the capacity in the section specializing in sex offenders. In 2012, internment network coordinators were appointed and mobile internment teams were set up, and to conclude, various improvement projects were launched. These include increased accessibility of residential supply (?), strengthening the outpatient offer, an intra-penitentiary offer of mental health care, a schedule that has a meaning for interns, a function of consultation or expertise. In 2014, the In Reach project (?) was launched in prisons and gradually extended to the social defence sections or institutions of Merksplas and Turnhout, as well as to the psychiatric section of Antwerp prison. This is a project to lower the threshold by means of motivational interviews for inmates who are more difficult to reach or motivate, with a view to a subsequent transfer to a psychiatric institution. In 2016, the main focus was on the creation of (semi-)residential capacity for people with intern status, but also on the forecasting of broader staff management within existing managers for people with more difficult or complex issues. These are crisis centres and a long-stay section for internees and a section for internees who need high security supervision. In addition to these initiatives, new legal psychiatry centres have been built in Ghent and Antwerp and interned persons are treated in a highly secure environment. Under the impetus of the Court's pilot judgment of 6 September, the Masterplan III detention and internment was implemented from 2017. Two hundred nonante places specifically for internees were created outside prisons, i.e. in psychiatric institutions. Since 2016, additional staff supervision has also been provided in the social defence sections or institutions of Merksplas and Paifve. In addition to the Masterplan, the Department of Welfare of the Flemish Community has also provided additional resources and direct funding for interns with disabilities began in early 2019. Finally, the competent authorities are currently funding a series of initiatives in the framework of the development of a care circuit for internees. These include, for example, funding for residential and highly secure accommodation, semi-residential accommodation, outpatient care, places for prisoners with intellectual disabilities and autistic disorders, as well as prison projects and strengthened staff supervision. Mr Van Hecke, as far as your question 2a is concerned, 684 interned people are currently in prison. 422 of which reside in an establishment or department for the protection of society. This is a department provided for by law and in which interns can stay pending a transfer to an FPC or to an external forensic care circuit. The psychiatric annexes of the prisons currently house 262 interned and are intended for a temporary and short stay at the start of the journey or in the event of re-entry in the context of the execution of the internment. Both the departments for the protection of society and the annexe have care teams to offer basic care to the internees. However, these care teams are much smaller than the care framework in psychiatric institutions. With regard to Mr Goffin's question, questions 2b, 3 and 4 by Mr Van Hecke and questions 1 and 2 by Mrs De Wit, I can say that I wish as little as possible to internees in prisons. The time they have to stay there, however, we want to fill in with tailored care and more therapy. The length of stay in prison must be as short as possible to limit the damage to detention. The longer an interned person stays in a prison without therapy, the harder it is to start therapy. Pending available places outside the prison, equivalent care should be offered in a prison similar to that in an FPC or a regular forensic care facility. Most internees stay in Merksplas, with 142 places and Paifve with 204 places. To meet the needs, the government is now investing in tailor-made care in these prisons. The care team of the Merksplas and Paifve prisons will be expanded by 50 people. In 2021, we will start recruiting, so that we can provide tailor-made care in these prisons in the short term. In all other prisons where internees reside, additional psychiatrists are provided to provide tailor-made guidance. An interned person is entitled to care. We are convinced that a smoother flow to other healthcare institutions will be possible if we can offer care and treatment to the interns from the first day of detention. In this way, our country responds to the criticism of the European Court that there would be no equivalent care offered in prisons as in free society. I would also like to work with the Minister for Health, just as the previous government has done, on the proper flow of prisons to the extra penitentiary capacity for interns and to regular care. In addition, we are also exploring other possibilities for further expanding the extra penitentiary capacity. So far the efforts for the group interned but I also want to improve the framework of interns with a psychological vulnerability. The more interned we can orientate to FPCs and other extra penitentiary places, the more places available on the annexes and the department for the protection of society. These places where a care team is present can then be occupied by inmates with mental vulnerability. Finally, I would also like to tell you what efforts we will make to improve the living conditions of the detainees. Several initiatives are being taken to do this: building new prisons, legally setting standards for cells, differentiation of regimes, professional differentiation of penitentiary staff, providing a digital detention platform and launching a detention plan from the first day in detention. In addition, this legislature is launching a new model for penitentiary health care, which was prepared together with public health and the Länder during the previous legislature. This will be done through pilot projects. By providing a broad multidisciplinary primary care, there will undoubtedly be more attention to mental health care. I include Question 3 by Mrs De Wit in the evaluation of the two FPCs to be carried out five years after the opening. These two FPCs already provide for an exchange when organising a time-out for patients. The opening of three additional FPCs will therefore also extend the (...) possibilities. We also consider the option to provide the FPC of Aalst in a department for extremely aggressive interned people. The additional investments planned for the interned in prisons and a therapeutic approach from the start of confinement are also expected to reduce the number of escalations caused by aggression. Then I come to your fourth question, Mrs De Wit. As you know, sexual criminal law is treated as a matter of priority. At present, the experts are also looking at the new penal code as a whole in order to make further adjustments where necessary. The new penal code will be discussed in an IKW before the summer, Mrs Lanjri. Within this framework, the issue is also being examined to see how best to deal with partial accountability legislation. In any case, we have asked for the opinion of the Committee on the Criminal Code on this system. That brings me to your fifth question, Mrs De Wit. The penitentiary observation center registered in the law of 5 May 2014 was started on 1 January 2020 in the prison of Brussels, site Saint-Gilles. It is a provisional observation center, where there is currently room for ten people. The final observation center will be located in the new Haren prison, where a specific infrastructure is provided. The opening of Haren's prison is scheduled for September 2022. Madam President, I apologise for the long answer, but I wanted to be complete and I also wanted to attach importance to this subject that affects the people of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u38	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed a very important issue. It is not the first time that Belgium has been convicted. This has happened many times in recent years, which is painful. This is also due to the efforts of a number of lawyers, who make it a matter of honour to take on the interests of the interns and go au fond, in order to achieve the maximum, with results, of course. These convictions oblige the Belgian State to take action and make it easier for you, in your capacity as Minister of Justice, to obtain additional budgets. A condemnation by the European Court of Justice is not fun to get, not for a minister but not for a country either. Nor is it pleasant for the whole government. However, it is a long-term work which we will not resolve in a few months' time. There's the FPCs. There's gonna be new ones. All the other measures you have listed are important work. The only question we may have to ask ourselves is whether we should not evaluate the legislation in time. Here too, there are occasional issues and problems at the European Court of Human Rights. In addition to the problems of proper care and guidance and the necessary psychiatric institutions, legislation itself deserves an evaluation. This is perhaps more a matter for when the most necessary decisions have been taken. However, we must not lose sight of the issue. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply, which was very comprehensive. It is, of course, a matter which deserves attention and which still has many important steps to be taken. After all, the challenges in this area are very great. Mr Minister, you have answered my questions quite comprehensively. However, although you may not have seen it through my mouth mask, I had to laugh at your answer to the last question about the Psychological Observation Centre, which was announced a long time ago, when you referred to the legislation of 2014. After all, the Observation Centre is no more or no less than the POKO, on which you were already decided in 1999 and which has always been put on the long track. It was nice that you referred to 2014. That might make it a little less bad but also dramatic. The idea of a multidisciplinary observation centre, which has been thought of for so long, which could and could be useful, has been in place for a long time. I understand that this is not evident and must fit in with the construction of the new prison centres. I don't care what context it is in. I know it's not easy, but the exercise or the idea has been around since 1999. I know you have many challenges in your path, but I would like to add one more. I wonder if you can make it happen so that it can prove its usefulness.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u40	Madam President, Minister, every year the Council of Europe collects statistics on prisons. In the past our country always scored badly, but also now the results are sad. Our country ranks third on the list of Member States of the Council of Europe most affected by overcrowded prisons, with 117 prisoners per 100 places available. Only in Turkey - not really an analogue country - and Italy is even more harrowing. A total of 14 countries of the 52 Member States have overpopulation in prison. Compared to neighbouring Netherlands, where there is an occupation of 59 per 100 places available, we have to conclude that the results for our country are really very bad. Another remarkable statistic from the research is the number of suicides. In 2019 there were 27 deaths in our prisons, of which 12 were the result of suicide. In other words, more than 44% of deaths were due to suicide, while the European average was at 26%. One last striking figure was the number of prisoners in remand. Here again, the number is significantly higher compared to other Member States. For example, 37% of prisoners in our country are in prison pending trial. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. I do not need to convince you that the problem of overpopulation has been on the increase for decades. With the planned new places, there will clearly be no solution to permanently eliminate the overpopulation. I have asked you this question a number of times and dare to ask it again, following this bad report. Will there be additional initiatives? Is there going to be a thorough plan to finally resolve the problem? The numbers of suicides are also very high. Can you give me an overview of the efforts being made in the field of prevention? This is essentially a competence of the Communities, but in what way does cooperation take place? In our country, on average, there are more people in remand, compared to other Member States of the Council of Europe. Could you give me a little more explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u41	Minister, my question is, of course, about the same Council of Europe prison statistics. A number of doers have been confirmed, as the colleague pointed out. The overpopulation is indeed much greater in us than in almost all other European countries. The number of suicides is also much higher, as is the number of prisoners in remand. That's all right. There are other interesting things in these statistics, such as the number of prisoners of foreign nationality. We're front-runners in that, too. We knew we were front-runners in overpopulation, but the figures for the number of prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants are odd. In Belgium there are 93 prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants. We are therefore below the European average. Yet we are in the top three of the overpopulation. So there's only one conclusion. On average, there are no more prisoners in Belgium than elsewhere. Given the overpopulation, we can only conclude that our prison capacity is too low. How will you deal with the overpopulation? Will you create more capacity or give less or shorter penalties? Do you have a strategy to gradually reduce the overpopulation over the next few years? Do you also have a strategy to reduce the number of prisoners in remand? Do you have a plan of action to reduce the number of suicides? What is the cause of the high proportion of prisoners of foreign nationality compared to the rest of Europe? Do you also have a strategy to reduce that percentage, Minister? Which countries are you currently in contact with to conclude treaties so that foreign prisoners can serve their sentence in their own country? Which countries are you going to contact? In the previous legislature, this number was seriously reduced by good cooperation between your predecessor, Mr Geens, and Mr Francken. This also brought down the overpopulation. That piste isn't being walked to that extent anymore, I get the impression.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, your questions were, of course, expected, in the light of the Council of Europe's annual report. For starters, there's the overpopulation. I've been trying to figure out when the overpopulation in our country started. I found that in 1970 there was already overpopulation. The question is, of course, what can we do about it? There are a number of areas where action is needed. Firstly, I would like to refer to the ten-point programme, which I proposed in my policy statement. We must not only talk about the quantity of places, but above all about quality. We must provide additional capacity through the construction of new prisons and the renovation of existing prisons. You are undoubtedly familiar with the programmes in Haren and Dendermonde, but there are other programmes, including in Ypres. Furthermore, with the construction of three new FPCs in Aalst, Waver and Paifve, we make a capacity of 620 places available. When it comes to quality, we must above all make adapted capacity available through the establishment of detention homes. As you know, I have already taken a number of initiatives in this area. We are currently in consultation with mayors and local authorities to take steps in this area. If you are active as mayor or local mandator, I would also like to hear your proposals on this matter. Furthermore, I refer to the adapted capacity for interned people by creating additional places in psychiatric institutions. My predecessor, together with the colleague from Health, has made considerable efforts in the previous legislature. At that time, 290 extra beds were created. It will not be evident to make an equal effort in this legislature. We have already had a first conversation with Mr Vandenbroucke and there is certainly a great deal of goodwill. The next point is to leave the sentence as far as possible in the country of origin. Today, in view of the corona situation, that is, of course, anything but obvious. When the corona crisis is over, we will pick it up together with colleague Madhi. Then there is better management of available capacity through faster repairs and good monitoring. That seems to be a small measure, but the prison director has whispered it to me. Investing in meaningful detention through a detention plan is once again an element of quality, to reduce recurrence. There is, of course, the fight against the spiral of inflationary punishment. Furthermore, there is the guarantee of shorter lead times, both internal and off-flow to other facilities. Finally, there is the prison sentence as an ultimatum remedium, involving all actors in the criminal justice chain. The problem of suicide must indeed be taken very seriously. The subject has already been the subject of several parliamentary questions. I refer to the answer to the written questions put by Mr Jadin, Mr D'Haese and Mr Van Hecke. These answers detail the initiatives taken to prevent suicide in prisons. In this context, there is cooperation with the departments of the Communities responsible for prevention policy. In addition, the prisoners also have access to the free numbers of the helplines. The policy on pre-trial detention is outside the competence of the DG EPI, which has no impact on the in and out or duration. We can give you some figures. In 2020 there were 9,793 detentions under pre-trial detention, in respect of 10,477 in 2019. The average population under the provisional detention status decreased from 3,976 in 2019 to 3,772 in 2020, while the number of convicts remained stable. The pandemic, and its policies, will undoubtedly affect the figures. It is too early to draw any conclusions from this now. The NICC's investigation shows that the alternatives to pre-trial detention have led to net Widening and not to the reduction of pre-trial detention. In addition, research shows that a number of variables have an impact on the decision on pre-trial detention and the duration of the pre-trial detention. You know that, as Minister of Justice, I have no control over the decisions to impose or maintain provisional detention. Those decisions, of course, and fortunately, belong to the exclusive competence of the judiciary. The law on pre-trial detention lays down precisely the criteria on which the pre-trial detention may be based, namely the protection of public security, as well as the risk of recurrence, withdrawal from criminal proceedings or collusion. I do not immediately see any reason to change those legal criteria. However, we need to talk to the Magistrate to see whether alternatives, such as pre-attachment under electronic supervision or freedom under conditions, cannot be applied more often. I will use the magistrate to see what the reasons are and whether we can solve the problem. Mrs De Wit, I come to your question about prisoners of foreign nationality. On the first part of your question, there is no ready-made answer. Research often reveals the position of Belgium as a transition country that is centrally located within Europe, with all the associated problems. The policy of detection and prosecution of those who do not have Belgian nationality is also regularly highlighted. In any case, it is a complex interplay of several factors. Extraditions and transfers abroad have been delayed, although this also applies to extraditions and transfers to Belgium. The effective implementation of a shipment will always depend on the existence of a laissez pass and identification and travel documents, which presupposes cooperation with the country of origin. That's where it poaches all the time. Together with my colleague Mahdi, I am trying to remedy that. As you know, the corona crisis has prevented dozens of shipments within and outside the EU. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, I can tell you that improvements have been made in recent years in the processes to speed up the flow of prisoners, which means that more prisoners are serving their time in the country of origin. We already have international instruments, such as the 2008 European Framework Decision. In the Council of Europe there is also the Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons. These two instruments alone cover a large number of countries with which the most frequent shipments of sentenced persons take place. In addition, Belgium has concluded bilateral agreements with Morocco, Albania, Brazil, Hong Kong, Kosovo, the Dominican Republic, Thailand and China. Finally, negotiations are under way, or are about to take place, with a number of other countries, including Cuba, Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u43	Mr Minister, the overcrowding is indeed an old very. In 1991 I was elected for the first time in the Federal Parliament and this was already a big problem. We are so many years away now and it has not yet been resolved. I never said you had no ambitions. Your plans are indeed quite ambitious, not only quantitative, but also qualitative, which is certainly necessary for our prisons. The day before yesterday you had to look at the very poignant situation in Merksplas prison, but that situation also arises in several other of our out-of-date prisons, where there is an urgent need for quality. Your ambitious plan remains open to one question, namely the financial picture. Cooking costs money. I fear that there will be insufficient resources for both new construction and possibly even more expensive renovations. With regard to the numbers of suicides, I will look with great interest at the answers to the written questions you have listed. As far as pre-trial detention is concerned, it goes without saying that you do not want to have a say, that you will not interfere, but there remains a remarkable observation. In practice I have very specific experience in Antwerp. The pre-trial detentions are taking longer and longer. I don't see any change in that. On the contrary, after the recent Operation Sky there are currently a lot of people in the prison of Antwerp, and also spread throughout Flanders. This will not change quickly, given the complexity and intertwinedness of these dossiers. Many people are still being sought, which means the risk of collusion. There is also a risk of flight. I am afraid that will not change in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u44	Of course, Minister, we have a huge problem. We have an overpopulation in our prisons. In many ways, attempts have been made to do something about this: alternative punishments, more postponements and all kinds of cases in order to undermine the actual sentence, with the result that the judges began to impose increasingly severe penalties to ensure that at least part of the sentence is served effectively. I think part of the solution consists in correct punishment. The sentence imposed must also be implemented, whether it be a work sentence, electronic surveillance or a prison sentence. Then the bottom judges will eventually be able to take that punishment to another order. I realize that this is not an obvious exercise, and that it is a long-term work. The only way to achieve this is to focus on capacity. We try far too often to reduce the number of prisoners to the capacity available by means of all kinds of interventions, while doing the opposite. For those who need to be punished, for the protection of society, whether it is with an anklet or through a prison sentence, we must ensure that we have that capacity. This is how it has been done in other countries. Each sentence is executed, with the result that the relapse level has dropped there and indeed fewer cells were occupied afterwards. That's not an obvious exercise, I realize. That it will cost money, I realize much more. So I look forward to the announced budgetary control, to see which funds are actually allocated to Justice, not what was announced in the policy paper, but the actual budget in which it is written in black and white. Then we will be able to see how the problem can be tackled, and that will have to be done on several fronts at the same time. Mr. Secretary, I checked to see if there's room for a detention center in our municipality. Of course, you're asking for a house for large numbers. That is not so obvious, but what we are trying to do is to involve ourselves in a project in Antwerp for young people who have been convicted for a first time, in which the public prosecutor's office is increasingly trying to use a Praetorian probation. In doing so, they are called in and they are given some kind of community service. As a municipality, we certainly want to help them to grab and exhort their necks as quickly as possible, especially to get those young people who do not yet have so much on their feet on the right track again. There are several ways to contribute and we do so at the local level. If one can't, we'll definitely try the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Goffin's 55016337C and Mr Dillen's 55016440C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u46	Minister, ethical hackers are occasionally used to check whether databases and data are sufficiently protected. Over the past few weeks, we have been able to learn about some significant leaks. Ethical hackers are already deployed by, among others, the European Commission, Kinepolis, Randstad, Brussels Airport and bpost. They look for weaknesses in the security of soft and hardware. An ethical hacker has the permission to do so and will not distribute the information obtained but will merely assist and inform its client of any security issues. Article 550a of the Criminal Code prohibits hacking, but since 2016 all companies and institutions in our country can receive a standard statement from the government and publish it on their website. That way, they can allow an exception for ethical hackers. With that statement, they give permission to hack them and warn them of any gaps in their computer security. Since the penal code has not been amended, any attempt at ethical hacking remains prohibited. The Cybersecurity Centre indicates that the standard declaration provides sufficient legal protection against a possible conviction under Article 550a of the Criminal Code. However, it is not an ideal solution, but only an exception to our penal law, which does not make the regulation fully transparent. It is also possible to add an additional threshold for companies and institutions to work with ethical hackers, while they can just contribute to digital security. What do you think of the exception to the ban on hacking through the standard declaration, as applied since 2016? Do you intend to amend Article 550a of the Criminal Code to make the regulations on ethical hacking more transparent? The experts did not take this into account in their texts. Maybe this has escaped their attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u47	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, I naturally agree with you that ethical hackers can be an added value for digital security in our society. I'm going to go to the essence of hacking and the purpose of the standard statement, in order to get the answer to your question. It is easy to hack into a computer system without having access to it. Our Criminal Code currently distinguishes between internal hacking and external hacking in Article 550a. In the first case, a person has valid access to the computer system but exceeds the limits of his access. External hacking is then done by a person outside the system. Ethical hackers are usually people who do not have access to the computer system, but who nevertheless enter the computer networks of, for example, companies to point out to them the vulnerabilities of their system. It is therefore correct that ethical hackers are subject to external hacking according to the strict reading of the law. However, there is a big but here. Absence of consent is essential in order to be able to speak of the crime hacking. External hacking is therefore only punishable if one enters an IT system without asking for prior authorisation. Thus, when an undertaking or institution enters into an agreement with an ethical hacker, in order to look for possible vulnerabilities, this is not considered a crime, because there is permission from the company in question to access the computer system. The standard declaration can be considered as an agreement and ensures that the constituent element lack of consent is not present. Consequently, the standard declaration is no exception to our penal law. Ethical hackers who strictly adhere to the standard declaration are thus legally authorised by the company. There can be no hacking in accordance with the Criminal Code by consent. The standard declaration ensures that ethical hackers have a strict framework within which they have to work in order not to be punishable. If ethical hackers are out of line or out of line with the standard statement, they can of course be guilty of hacking. All companies and institutions in our country can use this standard statement on their website to announce to outsiders that they allow them to hack and therefore warn against holes in the computer system. The standard declaration is provided by the Cybersecurity Centre. An attempt at hacking is punished in the same way as the completed crime and therefore equals hacking. The same reasoning as above can therefore also be followed for an attempt at hacking. The standard declaration is therefore a good instrument, and we have asked for it. I have not yet received any indication of the contrary. In reply to your second question, it is true what you are saying. The new draft of the Criminal Code takes back the crime as it stands in the current Criminal Code. At the moment, I do not intend to amend the said article to that effect, because, in my view, the rules on ethical hacking in our country are final.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u48	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. I understand the situation where a company itself agrees to try and test its safety. However, an ethical hacker will find out if the system is safe with a public body. We had a leak once in which SNCB's data was on the street. Proximus has already done that. An ethical hacker checks whether the system is safe, but does not have a prior agreement or statement, therefore remains a criminal offence, even if he or she does so with good intentions to prove that there are problems in government databases, for example. Thus, for those persons, the Criminal Code continues to apply and ethical hacking remains a problem. Mr Minister, I also believe that the government should report to ethical hackers and try to find a gap in the security of Sciensano, social security and certain public enterprises, but then to report the gap to the government and not to throw the data on the market. However, this may require additional protection. That's why I asked my question. I understand that as long as everything is done with an agreement, there is no need for it to be strictly legal. However, we exclude a number of things. So maybe that's something to think about after all. We still have a few months to go with the new Criminal Code, perhaps even a little longer. It could also be an opportunity to look at this aspect in more detail. Perhaps we should also look at the way in which this has been regulated abroad and whether certain other possibilities have been included in the legislation. I haven't examined that myself. However, perhaps the time has come to look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u49	Previously, I would like to pick up on the previous discussion. I also know an ethical bank robber who tries to get into a bank for ethical reasons. Minister, I would also like to refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u50	Firstly, the Belgian Postal and Telecommunications Institute (BIPT) has not informed us of any such incidents. So I'm assuming he didn't establish it. However, telecom operators are by nature an interesting target of foreign powers with offensive cyber capabilities. So there is always the possibility that cases have not come to light because of the covert nature of such attacks. As far as your second question is concerned, it is not up to the State's security to provide an answer on this matter. I think it would be more appropriate to do this through a BIPT monitoring study. Through the law on electronic communications, this imposes the rules and has the authority and expertise to check how well the rules are being followed. The problem with KNP, according to my information, seems to be a case of insufficient supervision of a supplier and of what it could have done, in this case Huawei. On your third question, despite the fact that there were no similar facts, additional measures are being taken to strengthen the safety of telecommunications networks. Since a decision of the National Security Council of 22 June last year on the security measures for mobile telecommunications networks, several Belgian administrations have worked together to prepare an adaptation of the telecoms legislation under the leadership of the BIPT. As soon as that legislative change enters into force, Belgium will need to be better equipped for future generations of mobile telecom networks to avoid risks such as those in KNP's reporting. For questions four, five and six, I refer to Mrs De Sutter, who is responsible for the BIPT. I have noticed that you have addressed the same questions to her, so I have agreed with her that she will certainly answer those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u51	I will certainly question Mrs De Sutter about what the BIPT specifically has to say about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament 55016546C) by Mr Francken, (Doc. 55016582C) by Mrs De Wit and Mr De Wit, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 55016639C by Mrs Bury have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u53	Minister, on 17 March I questioned you about the expected increase in gambling practices during and around the European Championship football in June 2021. You indicated that the Gaming Commission was working on an information and awareness campaign on the differences between legal and illegal gambling and the risks associated with illegal gambling. That campaign was scheduled to run from April to June 2021. Meanwhile, we are already over in mid-April and I haven't seen a campaign appear, either on the website of the Gaming Commission, or at other locations, unless I haven't noticed them. However, I am following the issue closely. As I said on 17 March, such a campaign has to fight powerful opponents. In many cases, gambling companies are multinationals. So I sincerely hope that the campaign will be spread rapidly, smoothly and widely. That is really necessary. A further campaign would be organised during the European Championship itself to highlight the message with moderation and to guide vulnerable players towards assistance. That would be done through yourself and the website of the Gaming Commission. However, in order for a campaign to reach the target audience effectively, good preparation and dissemination of the campaign through more popular and busy channels are also needed. Finally, in the run-up to Euro 2021, you would prepare the implementing decision of Article 62 of the Game Act. That implementing decision would also introduce the EPIS control from 1 June in the betting offices, thus providing better protection for the most vulnerable players. Is it true that the campaign hasn't started yet? If so, what is the reason for the delay? What have you done to ensure the timely start-up of the campaign and when will the campaign start? If not, where has it appeared and how is it distributed? I also have some questions about the second campaign that was announced. How are we preparing for the second campaign? Can you guarantee that the campaign will start in time? Which media channels have already been addressed or what other methods are used to make the campaign known? What is the state of play regarding the implementing act of Article 62 of the Game Act? Will it be ready before 1 June 2021? I have heard in the correspondence of certain gambling offices that steps have already been taken, because they are already on their horse about the extension of the EPIS control. This is, of course, to be expected if a tightening of legislation is announced. They will therefore often be on their horses in the coming months and years, but you will not care. Mr Minister, in short, I would like to have some explanation about the EK 2021 and the power of the gaming companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u54	At the end of April, the Game Commission launches the awareness campaign Always play legally to make players aware of the dangers of playing on illegal gambling sites. Until the start of Euro 2021, the Gaming Commission will publish short animation videos on its website and social media that illustrate the differences between legal and illegal gambling sites in a concise and educational way and point out the dangers to the players. The campaign also creates a specific logo for legal operators. This should allow players to easily and quickly distinguish legal gambling sites from illegal sites. During the European Championships, the RTBF and the VRT will broadcast a special ad aimed at young people with the central message "stop on time." I have been assured that this will happen dozens of times. The Gambling Commission decided to focus in the campaign on the risks that lie in the subtle transition from gambling as relaxation to problematic gambling. The ridicule will also contain a reference to the aid. Such a campaign on television will generate a great deal of visibility for assistance and will make it easier for the general public to find help in case of gambling problems. To my knowledge, it would be the first time during a major international tournament that we explicitly point out the dangers of gambling and aid both in Flanders and Wallonia. As regards your last question on Rule 62, the draft decision is in preparation. The entry into force is scheduled for this autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u55	Mr Minister, the gambling offices may be concerned about something else, because I thought it was also about extending the EPIS list. I thought that this could have to do with a decision of the Gaming Commission or with a certain directive. I'll check it again, but at least I got a letter from the lobbyists. It is very good to work with a commercial if it comes at the right moments on television, namely around sports competitions, with which one can reach a target audience. I hope it's gonna be a good commercial and it's gonna have an effect. However, it could be even more powerful if, for example, some Red Devils were committed to the campaign. That's what I said last time. It would be good if well-known Red Devils would advise the young people not to participate. After all, a commercial is just a commercial, but they look up to the Red Devils, because they are heroes. Of course, Minister, I do not know how far your influence extends. The problem, however, is that the Red Devils often play for clubs sponsored by gaming companies. Of course, these sponsors will not like the Red Devils to campaign against gambling companies. Maybe not all Red Devils play at gambling clubs sponsored by gaming agencies. We have to look for it. If that works...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u56	You're right. That's a good idea. I've seen the commercial that was supposed to be broadcast. It looks pretty good. It's professionally made. It would be broadcast in half-time, which would provide a lot of viewing range. The idea you're suggesting to use some Red Devils for that, whatever we've done for Qatar, but with a different purpose...
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u57	That took a while, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u58	I will put forward that very good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u59	Hopefully it will work, because we are all doing it with the same aim in mind, which is to protect young people from gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first say that freedom of religion is an important constitutional right for which I have great respect. For this reason, my office and I have had several meetings with religious representatives in recent months. The maximum number of 15 believers who can be present simultaneously in a place of worship was agreed at a meeting with representatives of all recognized cults held on December 9, 2020. A compromise was reached between freedom of religion on the one hand and public health on the other. On 26 January, we confirmed this point at a meeting with the Dialogue Council. At that meeting, it was important to agree on a simple rule. For this reason, we have established the rule of a maximum of 15 people at a time for all places of worship. On your second question, my office is in constant dialogue with the various representatives of the recognized cults. I listen to their wishes and then relay them to the concertation committee where decisions are taken in consultation between the various governments. Regarding your third question, in mid-January, the various representatives of the recognized cults sent me a letter with the proposal to relax the rule of 15. On January 26, we had a meeting. Since the coronavirus figures did not allow it yet, we agreed not to relax this rule yet. On 19 February, with a view to the consultation committee of 26 February, the various representatives of the recognized cults sent me a new letter with a proposal to relax the rule. As you know, at this consultation committee on 26 February, no relaxation was possible, given the increase in hospital admissions. Secondly, the consultation committee decided on 5 March to introduce a relaxation for cults from 1 April if the epidemiological situation permits and depending on the pressure on hospitals and the progress of the vaccination campaign. My office has prepared relaxations in close consultation with representatives of the recognized cults. Unfortunately, in the following weeks, coronavirus figures have changed negatively. For this reason, the Consultation Committee decided on 19 March to postpone these flexibilities to a date to be determined. This was communicated to the representatives of all recognized cults and they fully understood it. As you know, the concertation committee decided on April 14 on the end of the paschal break. For cults, relaxations have been proposed, of course, provided that the health conditions are met. My firm will have an interview this Friday, April 23, with the representatives of the cults in order to finalize the protocols.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u61	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his various answers. I am glad to see that you are following this issue very closely, because no one understands. I can assure you that in the commune where I am a mayor, it is not a problem, it is a small commune. These are small villages, so small buildings, but I understand those that are in cities with large buildings, basilicas, think of Saints-Michel-et-Gudule, where the number is also limited to fifteen people while there is a monumental volume and a huge area. Frankly, it's inconsistent, minister. I really count on you to make these figures evolve as quickly as possible. Honestly, the different cults are waiting for evolution. I am counting on you to respond positively to this issue, knowing that we must all do our utmost to avoid an excessive spread of the virus in our population. But here, you do not take any risk by widening, relaxing these rules in important buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u62	You know that the project was recently launched in Brussels on the occasion of International Women's Day, by the mayors of Brussels and Elsene and myself, together with the local police and the Brussels parquet. It is therefore unnecessary to say that, like you, I am convinced of the added value of these patrols and of this legislation. In fact, at the time, it was highly contested by certain politicians. We catch different flies with one stone. This responds to the low willingness of victims to report and to the difficult burden of proof when reporting. We have the legislative instruments to punish sexist behavior, but it is still too often present in our society. Therefore, we need to take vigorous action through these patrols. An evaluation of this pilot project against judicial leave will be carried out, after which the project can also be extended to other Brussels police areas and other towns and municipalities where police and prosecutors want to cooperate in this way. In the meantime, the Brussels Noord zone has already entered the project. I come to your second question.Of course, the project started in coordination and coordination with the parquet, specifically the Brussels parquet. It is important to respond appropriately to the perpetrators who are caught by such patrols. I will kick in another open door by saying that the right legal response should not always be a prison sentence. On the contrary, witty suspects who confess facts can be sent to training. In this way, they recognise that their behaviour is indeed criminally sexist behaviour and are reminded of the impact of their behaviour on victims, obviously with the intention that such behaviour will not repeat itself in the future. As far as entrapment is concerned, of course the public prosecutor and the police are familiar with the relevant articles and the legal process. Of course they will avoid entrapment. As far as your third question is concerned, I do not have access to the minutes, and I cannot give you any information about the information requested. The law of 22 May 2014 states that any sexist gesture or behaviour is punishable by a prison sentence of one month to one year and with a fine of 50 to 1,000 euros. The follow-up given by the parquet is assessed by the parquet case on a case-by-case basis, based on the seriousness and personality of the defendant. In this case, one suspect was subpoenaed directly to appear before the correctional court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u63	(...) (excluding micro)
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u64	Yes, I said that we would evaluate the pilot projects against judicial leave and then, if necessary, extend them to the other Brussels police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u65	(...) [[sound problem]]
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u66	Madam President, Mr Geens, during the previous legislature, initiatives were indeed taken on the issues relating to the remuneration of directors and the conditions for acting as a professional director. Although important and useful preparatory work has been carried out, this work has not been able to lead to a preliminary draft law and a draft royal decision which decided on all the bottlenecks so that these drafts could be submitted to the government. In addition, these initiatives also have an important budgetary aspect. The problem of governance and, in particular, the establishment of a federal executive committee is not included in the coalition agreement. Nevertheless, I am currently examining the various slopes, so that an initial state of affairs can be presented to the government in June. On the basis of these consultations, further steps can be taken to continue the dossiers and bring them to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u67	Madam President, I have received an answer which can be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u68	Madam President, Mr Metsu, with regard to your questions 3, 4 and 5, I would like to refer to my colleague, Mr Schlitz, who is responsible as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. The grant and the financial statements to which you refer fall within its competence. I suggest you address those questions to her. With regard to your first two questions on state security, I would like the following answers. In the context of its legal powers as defined in the Law of 30 November 1998, Articles 7 and 8, the Security of the State shall carry out proportionate investigations into persons or organisations involved in the dissemination of extremist views or intentions. The results of the investigations shall be communicated, where appropriate, to the competent judicial or public authority. However, for the sake of the security and confidentiality of its intelligence network, the Security of the State cannot communicate whether or not to conduct investigations against specific persons or specific bodies. In accordance with the same law, Article 20 §1, the Security of the State cooperates with the foreign intelligence and security services, including the French services. With this answer, I will go further on the answer I gave to some of your colleagues in committee on this matter. This non-profit association was founded on 1 November 2020 and the statutes were published in the annexes of the Belgian Official Gazette on 13 January 2021. Although there are indeed links between this organisation and CCIF, which has been dissolved in France, this non-profit association has not yet carried out any activities according to our state security. The Security of the State will pay due attention to this non-profit organisation in the future if it actually engages in activities in our country. Of course, the Justice Department will take appropriate action if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-04-21-definitief-55-commissie-ic445x.u69	Mr. Secretary, you're getting rid of questions 3, 4 and 5. We know that we need to be careful about subsidies when we look at what is currently going on with your party mate. The goal can be noble, but control forces itself. The question I ask myself is whether the purpose here is noble. You know as well as I do that the government is one and indivisible. You say that this is the responsibility of Mr Schlitz. That's not true. The grant is your joint jurisdiction. At the local level, I only subsidise things that I support 100%. I'm assuming that's the same for you. You are also supporting the CCIB that opposes the ban on headscarfs, for example. So I will keep coming back to this. I hope that if I keep knocking on the CCIB nail, it'll keep you alert and alert.
