ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u1	Madam Minister, it has been over a month since the first question was asked about the possible use of Belgian development aid for the financing of terrorist activities by the People's Front for the Liberation of Palestine. What's the status of the investigation? You told me your cabinet is responsible for the investigation you ordered. Do you guarantee the independence of the persons conducting and managing the investigation? Have you informed the State Security about this? On what time do you expect the investigation to be completed? You have already told me that you will not freeze the funds at the moment. What are your findings? Will you link any consequences to those findings today? Is there a judicial investigation going on at the moment? Have you received the full report from the Israeli authorities? If you have only had access or a description of the report, to what extent have you verified that you would have received the complete information? In the meantime, did you contact the Israeli authorities again to receive additional annexes, reports or explanations? To what extent did you have contact with the organizations Viva Salud, Oxfam and Brotherly Delen? Have these organisations been informed by your services? Did you think there was enough control? Which control mechanisms were used What reaction of the organisations was there to these controls? What steps have you taken? The whole thing has been rolling in the Spanish and Dutch press. In addition to contacting your Dutch colleague, were you also in contact with your Spanish colleague on the issue? In our discussion during the previous session, 'This is very special', there was no clarity as to the amount of resources. Your cabinet has had to improve the figure on this matter a few times. In the end, you had to send an e-mail with new numbers. How sure are you today of the resources that go to Palestine and to organisations linked to the Liberation Front for Palestine? So can you provide me with the full budget and payment to humanitarian and non-governmental aid organisations, such as UAWC, HWC or Help Work Committee, Al Haq, DCIP or Defense for Children International Palestine or possibly other organisations linked to PFLP, directly or through an intermediary organisation? I would also have liked to have received the multiannual plan for the humanitarian non-governmental aid of the De Croo government for the benefit of organizations linked to the PFLP or possibly linked to the research, as well as an overview of your expenditure and for the years before your arrival. When exactly did you start the investigation in your cabinet? Do you think that your services have sufficient insight into the control mechanisms? Is the current control mechanism satisfactory? I would also like to know on the basis of which figures you ordered that investigation. In view of the lack of uniformity in communication, it should be pointed out that research must be carried out on the basis of the correct figures. What was the specific assignment? How did you write that assignment in your cabinet? What's the frame? I can't find in the ODA bank the 964,000 euros from Viva Salud. Can you tell us by what route the money from the Health Work Committee and Bisan actually ended up? To what extent do you trust that the data and the figures are correct? When you arrived, you inherited the effect. To what extent have you researched the accuracy of the figures used by the previous administration? At the committee meeting on 2 June, you indicated that, under your impetus, our country cleared 8 million for humanitarian aid in Gaza through the UN OCHA Fund. You said at that meeting: "The UN Humanitarian Fund is only accessible to recognised humanitarian organisations that respond to the humanitarian needs of the local population. These organisations are bound by humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law. The local authorities are not involved in any way in the decision on the allocation of those funds. Of course, the fund does not finance those authorities. There is therefore no risk of indirect financing of Hamas or companies, neither Israeli nor Palestinian." Now I read in the international press that, according to an international report, the humanitarian fund of UN OCHA would have received USD 14 million from Belgium, of which at least USD 10.6 million is allocated to PFLP-linked NGOs. So in addition to 7,46 to 8 million, which you mentioned, we are talking about an additional 10.6 million that would be linked to the PFLP. How do you explain your claim that there is no risk? Have you asked for additional guarantees in relation to the UN Fund? Did you do any additional research? Have you really made agreements on this? We are talking about flexible financing, which can almost be used immediately. To what extent, given the sensitivity of the matter, will you be able to build up additional gaps and be sure of the necessary transparency and accountability? Who in your cabinet is responsible for carrying out the investigation? What's his or her profile? What was his or her position before he or she was ordered to investigate? How did your cabinet screen that person for independence? Who's he reporting to or her? So who has the final responsibility to present the report at ministerial level? Who appointed that responsible officer? Who appointed the executive officer to your cabinet? You indicated that you were in contact with the Dutch ambassador and that you had been informed that the Dutch colleagues could not give concrete evidence of a link between UAWC, which finances the Dutch state, and PFLP. You also indicated that our neighbours are waiting for the OLAF report. You also indicated that the Netherlands did not freeze the financing of UAWC. According to my information, that's not entirely true. The Netherlands would still provide funds for Palestinian farmers, but no longer through UAWC. How is it that your information does not correspond to the information I have obtained through other official bodies? According to the Israeli report, the Netherlands would only finance UAWC as a suspicious organisation. In your reply to the committee, you indicated that the Belgian cooperation with the organisations mentioned in this dossier and designated as suspicious is much wider. It would be four NGOs. To what extent do you think that the comparison between the Dutch research and your research is still valid at the moment? The special evaluator for development cooperation indicated in the committee not to be involved in the research you started. Why do you not include such an important profile in this investigation? Wouldn't this particular evaluator have added value in the search for the truth about the crooked or otherwise money flows in development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Depoorter, I will give you a chronological explanation. On 5 May 2021, like several other European countries and the European Commission, we received information from Israel on suspected fraud and alleged links between Palestinian organisations indirectly supported by Belgium and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine identified by the European Union as a terrorist organisation. In concrete terms, it concerns four Palestinian civil society organisations which received Belgian funding at a certain point in time. Belgian funding of these organisations is indirect, through Belgian NGOs which have entered into a formal partnership with these organisations. These are the organisations Defense for Children International (DCIP), a partner organisation of Brotherly Delen, Health Work Committees (HWC) and the Bisan Center for Research & Development, two partners of Viva Salud, and the UAWC, a former partner organisation of Oxfam Belgium, which, however, has not received funding from Belgian development cooperation since the end of 2017. The information was handed over to the Belgian ambassador in Tel Aviv and the file was then transferred to my administration, the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid (DGD), and to my cabinet. The geographical management of the DGD, in turn, informed the organisations concerned of the allegations. Then I instructed my administration to examine the file thoroughly. That investigation was conducted by my administration. It was the geographical direction of the DGD who was in charge of this investigation, not my cabinet. I will inform you of the results of the investigation by my administration. The investigation focused initially on the information we received from the Israeli authorities. This showed that the Israeli file does not contain concrete evidence for possible fraud in partner organisations. The administration has re-examined the available information in the context of substantive and financial control. This has shown that the Belgian NGOs concerned have effective systems of organizational control. This is a prerequisite for being recognized as a Belgian actor in development cooperation. It is also controlled by an external agency. Such audits shall examine, inter alia, the financial management, risk management, transparency and management of the partnerships. In addition to that screening at organisational level, the Belgian NGOs in the past were also subject to substantive and financial monitoring and control of the grants. Review of these control reports showed that they did not raise any objections. Neither did the previous external evaluations of the interventions of the Belgian NGOs reveal any suspicious elements. Finally, my administration also analysed the annual external audit of the Palestinian NGOs' accounts. These audits are mandatory under Palestinian law and are carried out by highly-reputable offices such as Deloitte and PricewaterhouseCoopers. The analysis of these audits did not reveal any irregularity. Since 5 May 2021, we have not been allowed to receive any additional information or documents from the Israeli authorities. No additional information was provided during my meeting with the Israeli Ambassador on 24 June. The investigation by my administration is now complete and the results were transferred to me at the beginning of July. Mrs Depoorter, on the basis of that research, I see no reason today to freeze resources or to have additional external research carried out. I therefore maintain confidence in our Belgian partner organisations and in the existing control systems. If new concrete evidence were to emerge in the future, this position could of course be revised. You also asked me to contact my colleagues in other concerned Member States. In the context of hot research, my administration contacted other donors directly, both in Jerusalem and in the respective capitals. On the basis of these contacts, I can say that the European Commission provided direct funding to two other Palestinian organisations on which similar accusations were made in the Israeli file. The financing of these organisations was temporarily suspended by the Commission. The European Anti-Fraud Office was asked to carry out a preliminary investigation. The study in the Netherlands concerns two different situations. In 2020, the Netherlands stopped payment to UAWC, pending the results of an external investigation launched in 2020 in the context of the alleged involvement of former UAWC employees in a bombing in 2019. That bombing would have been done by the PFLP. The new fraud allegations recently made about the UAWC have been added to the ongoing investigation in the Netherlands. The results are not yet known. However, the Netherlands did not take any additional suspensive measures in response to this recent file. With regard to the other donors mentioned in the dossier, I can tell you that, as a result of these accusations, they have not so far stopped cooperating with the Palestinian partner organisations concerned. Nor do we have any indication that they will do so in the future. You also asked a question about the financing of the humanitarian fund in Palestine. Indeed, local organisations often have indirect access to the humanitarian funds that Belgium also contributes to. In this case, around 1% of the total funds allocated to the humanitarian fund in Palestine were allocated to the local organisations concerned for the period 2017-2020. This means that these organisations are subject to the UN control mechanisms. Organisations should be able to submit positive audits and evaluations in this context in order to gain access to funding. In addition, the activities from these funds are regularly monitored by donors, including Belgium. Our representation in Palestine will take part in the projects financed by the Fund. There are also regular site visits. So we do have good information on what is happening with the funds from the fund. The figures given at the committee meeting on 2 June concern the full programmes of our Belgian NGOs in Palestine. Of course, we also have verified information regarding the specific financing of the aforementioned recognised Palestinian partner organisations of our Belgian NGOs. For the sake of completeness, I give you the amounts received by the Palestinian organisations mentioned in the files from 2017 to 2021 through their Belgian partners. Defence for Children International, a partner of Brotherly Delen, received 170,800 euros. Health Work Committees, a partner of Viva Salud, received 297.925 euros. Bisan Center for Research & Development, a partner of Viva Salud, received 337.892 euros. For the period from 2017 to 2021, the total amount is EUR 806,617 or an average of EUR 161,323,4 per year. The financing of the UAWC, a partner of Oxfam, covered a two-year humanitarian programme in 2016 and 2017, worth 286,000 euros. The UAWC has not received any new funding since. The fact that you did not find the full figures of Viva Salud's program may be due to the fact that the organisation was still called Medicine for the Third World until September 2018. The figures for that period are under the old name in ODA online, the database that is publicly accessible via the FPS Foreign Affairs website. You also asked whether the special evaluator for development cooperation was involved. That is not the case. I invite you to read the KB in which her mandate is described. You will find that financial control is not within its remit. The security of the State is not involved in this either. There is no evidence at present that the internal or external security of the Belgian State is being compromised. You further asked if there's a judicial investigation going on. That is the case in Israel, where four individuals have been charged. There is no judicial investigation in Belgium. Mrs Depoorter, as I explained, there are strong control mechanisms for NGO funding in Belgium. However, they have not revealed any irregularities. Such control mechanisms remain necessary. After all, we want resources to be put in the right place, while we also need organisations that, despite the particularly difficult situation in which they work, continue to work for the benefit of the local population. Let's not lose sight of that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As for the special evaluator, perhaps now is the time to include it in the royal decree. We have already had enough scandals in development cooperation, and this is just the person who could independently investigate money flows. We can certainly do something about this in the short term. You did not answer the question as to what profile led the investigation in your administration. Nor did you say how to guarantee the independence of the persons in charge of the investigation. However, that is a very important question to which I really want an answer from you. I do not need names, but I do want to know the profiles of those people and the position they hold today in the cabinet. This is very important in the context of public administration and the independence of your research. So I would like to have an answer to those questions. What I also note in your reply is that you are not waiting for the results of the independent research conducted in Europe to draw a conclusion. However, you told me in plenary that you would wait for that investigation, but today you are not going to find any anomalies or objections about the funding and the resources used. So you are speaking against that. You also state in your reply that you do not consider the Israeli file to be truthful or clear evidence. Do you, as Minister for Development Cooperation, question a secret file drawn up by the Israeli Security Service? After all, you answer that you do not see any incriminating evidence. Don't you take Israeli diplomacy at its word? Do you believe that when you receive a secret investigation explained by official bodies, you carry out your task by having your cabinet staff examine the file? Would it not have been better to instruct an independent body to investigate whether there could have been money flows from the Belgian taxpayer to Palestinian terrorist organisations? The N-VA Group has been asking that from the beginning. I note that Europe, like the Netherlands, has ordered those independent investigations and that you are satisfied with a screening of the analysis of other services. You're not going to the bone here. Also with regard to the fund you open the umbrella. After all, you stated that 1% was spent on this. However, I have read that EUR 10.6 million is involved. Together with the 7.4 million euros, this amounts to 18 million euros in Belgian funds. You say you rely on the fund and our on-the-spot check. However, as you said yourself, the control of development cooperation is extremely difficult because of the situation on the ground. To what extent can you guarantee that the control is sufficient? I really cannot get rid of the impression that you cannot guarantee that today. Nor can I get the impression that today you do not want to answer the question of who is evaluating the studies. I am very concerned about the seriousness with which you deal with the dossier. You refer to the Netherlands and again to the UAWC. You have not gone into my observation that the Netherlands is no longer giving money to UAWC today, but that it is still giving money to Palestinian farmers through other channels, just because the research is still ongoing. The resources are indeed not frozen. However, they are transmitted through other channels. Why do you not follow the path of your European colleagues who investigate this on the substance? This is tax money, as I have said before. If we want support, we must be able to make it very clear to the people that the money flows are going as they should. I repeat my question because I would very much like an answer. What profile is involved in this on your cabinet? Who's running the investigation and who's in charge?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u4	Mrs Depoorter, I will repeat my answer clearly. My cabinet is not in charge of the investigation. This is run by the administration, in particular by the geographical management. That board is in charge, not us. I hope this is clear now. You asked why we did not wait for Europe's research. Europe's research concerns two other organisations, in which Belgium is not involved. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, I have answered clearly that there is an investigation going on. The complaint was dealt with seriously, and we did not put it next to us. An investigation has been carried out and this has shown that there is no evidence of further investigation. You may be displeased about that and perhaps you would have preferred a different result, but I cannot help but think that this is the result of the research that we have had carried out. That investigation has been thoroughly carried out, which is why we have now come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u5	Madam Secretary, you did not answer my question as to who will follow that file in your cabinet. Who's investigating your cabinet? I will give you some more concerns that I have received in my mailbox. Organisations active in the field state that within your cabinet there are two employees involved in this investigation. They'll follow up on this for you. One of those employees would have ties to Palestine. Can you refute that claim, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u6	You continue to claim that my cabinet staff conducted the investigation. That's just not true, the investigation was conducted by the administration, not by members of my cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u7	It's normal for the cabinet to follow what happens in the administration. However, they do not carry out this themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u8	I was just asking who's gonna follow this up with your cabinet. I have been informed that the organisations mentioned have spoken to your cabinet and I would like to hear from you who this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u9	Dear colleague, I have taken note of the report recently published by a number of NGOs. I share the authors' concerns about the lack of an inclusive framework that complicates the process of debt prolongation. The covid-19 pandemic continues to exacerbate problems in the least developed countries. In 2020, Africa's GDP fell by 2.1 per cent. It is therefore more necessary than ever to cancel or alleviate the debt of these countries. With regard to private sector participation in the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI), the Initiative provided leverage to achieve this. The future "common framework" for debt restructuring in poor G20 countries will provide a stronger framework for involving the private sector. I look forward to the first experiments to see if this common framework is really enough. That is why I actively advocate a multilateral approach, as I did at the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development Financing in New York. I have already spoken on several occasions in favour of debt relief initiatives, and I will continue to do so. We must preserve progress in poverty reduction and sustainable development, as well as stimulate economic and sustainable recovery. Moreover, I am glad that my colleague and Minister Peter Van Peteghem are on the same page and that we have been able to develop a common Belgian position in this respect. We want to support debt relief initiatives within a European and multilateral framework with the objective of preserving poverty reduction results and stimulating a sustainable recovery. In this spirit, I have taken the decision to allocate EUR 2.5 million for debt relief for Somalia. Somalia has recently reached the decision point. This means that Somalia has met the conditions for support from the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. Our country will use part of its contribution to the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to clear Somalia's arrears, which will give it the opportunity to invest in development and its people after years of devastating civil war. Belgium will continue to participate in the various forums where this issue will be on the agenda and I will continue to encourage debt relief for poor countries in a multilateral framework. It is clear that this framework ideally includes a maximum of both official and private creditors in order to maximize the impact of debt relief on recipient countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The private sector has now captured more than 60 per cent of the debts of poor countries. Therefore, not all initiatives that can be taken at bilateral or even multilateral level for debts owed to States or development banks alone capture the interest of the private sector. The private sector has a huge interest in remaining in a debt system as interest rates are above 8%. It is terrible ethically to realize that the poorest countries are the milk cows of the private sector that make indecent profits on the backs of poor countries. Poor countries actually benefit from official debt relief from the public sector and ultimately repay the private sector. Unfortunately, it is known that when the private sector is kindly asked to participate in the efforts you are putting in place actively at the international level, it does not do so. We must therefore change our strategy and put in place binding levers for the private sector to play the game because we know that it is not enough to ask for it kindly. We need to change our strategy. I hear you're working with Minister Van Peteghem on these strategies. It's necessary because you don't have a magic wand! Our government agreement and your policy are really focused on debt relief for the poorest countries, but we need to use the binding tools to do so. On the other hand, this must not prevent us from making progress on our bilateral debts. You have not quite answered my question as to whether you have already engaged in links with private institutions based in Belgium. You said that you are continuing your bilateral or multilateral efforts. But I encourage you to take the initiative to visit private creditors based in Belgium and to make them heard right if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u11	Madam Secretary, several media have reported in recent weeks, not for the first time, about the abuses in the palm oil industry. We knew that palm oil could have a negative impact on the environment, climate change and biodiversity, but there would also be human rights violations in various palm oil plantations. Belgium has an investment in the Congolese palm oil company Plantations et Huileries du Congo through the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries or BIO. The mother company Feronia is also not undisputed. Madam Secretary, according to Minister Khattabi, you are currently working on an exit strategy from this investment. Can you explain more about the creation, amount and evolution of this investment? What exactly does the exit strategy mean? Is there also an end date on BIO's investment in the palm oil company? Does the Congolese company have an RSPO certificate, an international proof of the sustainable extraction of palm oil? In an article in De Morgen of 12 June, local residents and NGOs claim that RSPO certification would be a fake process, disregarding the complaints and concerns of local communities. Moreover, it would not stop practices such as deforestation and land robbery. Do you share the criticism of the RSPO certification? Do you consider it necessary and desirable to tighten up the requirements for such a certificate?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u12	This dossier has been problematic for years and has been discussed several times in this committee. It is not in line with my view of international solidarity. The fate of the workers in this file remains a priority for me and the key to any decision. I'll give you an overview of the situation. In December 2015, BIO granted a loan of around EUR 9.7 million to Plantations et Huileries du Congo SA (PHC), a palm oil producer in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). PHC is a company that has three plantations in Lokutu, Yaligimba and Boteka, located in the provinces of Tshopo and Mongala. In 2008 the Canadian listed impact investor Feronia PHC bought over from the then owner Unilever. The company was then in a plight as a result of dislocated conflicts in the eastern part of the country between 1996 and 2003. There was years of neglect and lack of investment and strategic support by the parent company Unilever. Feronia wanted to rebuild the company, including with the help of European investment banks, such as BIO, DEG from Germany, CDC from the UK and FMO from the Netherlands, but had to close the books in July 2020. PHC was acquired by the investment company KKM, which was already a minority shareholder in Feronia, and which acquired a majority share through a new capital injection. Feronia was taken off the Canadian scholarship. It was initially agreed with the investment banks that they would remain on board this new constellation as credit amplifiers. Agreements were made with KMM to continue to invest in the construction of schools and health centres, and in the measures to further improve working conditions and the environment. The agreements were set out in an Environmental and Social Action Plan, a summary of which is available on the PHC website. These include the increase in the lowest wages to an acceptable living wage and a further improvement in workers' housing and water quality in the concession. In return, lenders would be willing to cancel some of the outstanding debt. I asked BIO to follow the implementation very closely. The following elements illustrate the progress already made. An independent expert conducts a study on the quality of surface and ground water with the aim of developing a clean-up plan. A property inventory was completed and 100 new homes were built in 2020. Training was provided on the use of agricultural chemicals at Yaligimba site and the development of an investment programme for local communities was carried out with the support of an NGO specialised in supporting the economic development of local communities. At my request, BIO has developed a responsible exit strategy, which was approved by the Governing Board on 26 January 2021. The aim is to achieve as much further improvements as possible, together with the other investment banks, before the involvement in the project ends, at the latest by 30 June 2022. During that period, every effort must be made to improve the wages and conditions of the workers. That point is extremely critical and I will ensure that BIO continues to contribute to it. However, a legal dispute with the new shareholder KKM complicates that process. I asked BIO to give me an update soon in order to determine whether the exit strategy of January should be revised. The RSPO certificate was a condition for Feronia to receive a loan from the investment banks. Feronia was in favour of this, but encountered a practical problem: RSPO certification was originally developed for large plantations, while one of three concessions, namely Lokutu, is a mix of small plantations and communal and individual plots. In order to obtain a RSPO certificate, the perimeters of those plantations and parcels also had to be mapped. This gave rise to major discussions and conflicts over land borders. In order to avoid further conflicts, the certification exercise was discontinued. Since then, the RSPO has been working with the RSPO to find a solution to this problem, possibly in the direction of an adaptation of the RSPO standard. RSPO certification is in principle one of the strictest in the world. This certification system includes a total ban on deforestation and requires oil palm producers to protect and maintain high natural value areas, and to keep greenhouse gas emissions as low as possible. The local population is also consulted, both for certification itself and for successive checks and the new certification exercises that take place every five years. If it appears that the plantation operator does not comply with the commitments, consultations with the communities can be organised. In the worst case, even the certificate can be revoked.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u13	Madam Minister, overall we agree that the production of palm oil can often have a negative impact and is also an effective problem. Today we are talking about a worldwide consumption of 73 million tonnes. It is expected to rise further. The product is therefore in about half of the consumer goods. If there are adverse effects, it is important that the government does not participate directly or indirectly in companies that cannot guarantee 100% sustainability of palm oil. After your presentation on the roll-out, from the establishment of the amount to the current exit strategy, I would like to give everyone the benefit of the doubt. The exit strategy runs until 30 June 2022. The aim is to make some improvements, but you are also going to take a swing at the arm and you want to follow it very closely. That will be necessary. We'll wait and see. Due to a number of smaller plots, not every plantation is covered by the RSPO certificate. That's problematic. The complaints and stories come back again and again. When I ask you whether you will review the certification, you will explain how strict it is, that the standards are high and that the concerns of local communities are taken into account. Because of the constantly recurring stories I am not convinced that it is all well. I wonder if it would not be better to review that, but let us wait and see what June 2022 brings.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u14	Madam President, Minister, BIO's Board of Directors should have been replaced two years ago. You carried out that replacement under your mandate. This new board of directors is important, as it will determine the strategic orientation of BIO. Now it turns out that this new board of directors is 100% staffed with members who have taken an active role in parties and Cabinets. Those members therefore do not necessarily have expertise in the matter managed by BIO as a development bank. I find that remarkable. Madam Secretary, can you explain why you have not chosen the new political culture? Why didn't you argue for the appointment of independent experts as well? The same applies to Enabel's Management Board, which will have to be replaced in September. The Director and the President of Enabel have clearly advocated that 50% of the new board of directors be manned or engaged with independent experts. I have been informed that a letter was sent to all parties of the majority, asking for people to be brought in to be part of Enabel's board of directors. This does not seem to me to be an example of good governance, whereas for Enabel this is just a very important pillar of policy. If purely political representation is chosen on the board of directors, it can really hypothesize Enabel's internationalisation and quality improvement, because it opens the doors to political interference. Madam Minister, what vision is there to re-work through the political parties and not seek expertise? It is intended that our country will be able to pursue a progressive development policy led by experts in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Depooster, it is in any case my intention to designate competent people for the boards of BIO and Enabel. For BIO, the Royal Decree for the appointment of the new members of the Board of Directors of BIO will be published shortly. It was signed by the King and sent to the Belgian Official Journal for publication. However, I can reassure you and assure you that the new board of directors, as proposed, has all the useful experience, knowledge and expertise required by the law and that it guarantees a proper follow-up and direction of the files managed by BIO. The new directors come from active business, banking, international trade agencies, the academic environment, civil society, institutional and governmental bodies and organisations. Through their professional background, they can focus on a wider experience in international investment and trade, business management and financial analysis. Five of them have been active in Belgian and international development agencies on the site and on the site for decades. They thus have an excellent and practical knowledge of the challenges and needs of the concentration countries of BIO. The mandate of the old or current members of the Board of Directors expired in principle on 29 May 2019. There is no new board of directors can be appointed, as the federal government was in current cases at the time. For Enabel, the information you received about the letter sent to colleagues in the government is not correct. No letter was sent. My intention is to appoint the Management Board by 1 October 2021. Also for Enabel's board of directors, the law requires members of the board of directors to have useful and demonstrable experience in international development and, if possible, in business management. The law also requires that members of the board of directors come from federal government institutions, the business world, the academic environment, civil society organisations, institutional and governmental actors and international organisations. Those criteria will be closely monitored in the appointment of the new Management Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u16	So, Madam Secretary, you seem to choose experience and the right party card. I am very sorry about that. This government advocates a new political culture, but does not implement it. Regarding Enabel, you have a few months left, you still have the summer to clearly search for profiles of people who are independent, who are expert and independent. It would be very unfortunate if our development policy were to be guided by political interference. Enabel is a structure that advocates good governance, which advocates internationalisation. Madam Minister, I will come back to this in October and I hope from the bottom of my heart that you will do what your government says, so you will not choose the party card, but the independence and expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u17	Madam Secretary, when you were a Member of Parliament, we approved the integrity charter together in plenary. As a result, the integrity charter became more than a leaf of paper, it became an enforceable instrument. You mentioned in the policy paper that unfortunately there is still a taboo in humanitarian and development cooperation. People in vulnerable conditions are the victims of all kinds of exploitation. Sometimes the aid providers are also the culprits. This is not unique to development cooperation, it occurs in all forms of care where power relations are disproportionate. We must fight and limit this at all times. We cannot accept that victims are in the cold, that victims are not being helped. If we want to strengthen the capacity of development cooperation, the N-VA believes that cross-border sexual behaviour really needs to be tackled strictly. You are also of that opinion. That has been made very clear in your policy paper. We believe that the organisations have a responsibility for their staff and their culture of communication. When organisations are subsidised by Belgian federal development cooperation, the government also bears a responsibility. The integrity charter, which is a question of the moral standards and demands of transparency that we impose on the business world, must therefore also be respected and promoted ourselves. Parliament therefore supported this initiative but one year after the date we have to establish that the law has not yet entered into force. Implementing decisions have not yet been taken. In a year, casualties could have been repeated. In a year, families may again be in complete desperation. Sexual abuse and cross-border behaviour are not acceptable. We won't tolerate that. Madam Secretary, how are you getting on with the preparatory work? By when can we expect the implementing decisions? What progress has been made with the creation of a central, neutral and accessible hotline? Is there any reason why you shouldn't enforce the law passed by the Chamber? When will you make a decision to bring the law into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u18	Let it be very clear: the fight against sexual exploitation, abuse and intimidation by staff of aid organisations is high on my agenda. We need to be tough on these practices. We must also put in place mechanisms to prevent them and ensure that the perpetrators are punished. Aid workers are expected to assist the people. They must therefore meet the highest standards and values. Looking away from this issue is not an option. During the last few months, my administration, in preparation for the Royal Decree to which you refer, has engaged in extensive consultations with the various actors involved. Legal advice was also sought to see how the various integrity provisions could best be integrated into the Royal Decree. There is also a European Directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of European Union law. This directive must be transposed into Belgian law by the end of this year. It will also contain provisions for anonymous hotlines. In order to avoid duplication of work, or worse still, that there are conflicting rules, we would first like to see more clarity about the consequences that the transposition of that European directive will have at Belgian level. In the meantime, much has already been done to introduce the integrity charter. Both BIO, Enabel and all institutional actors have a hotline for integrity violations. A survey carried out by my administration in civil society organisations showed that 93 percent of respondents have already set up a hotline. As far as multilateral partners are concerned, standard clauses are drawn up in agreements signed by Belgium. It obliges them to prevent sexual exploitation, abuse and intimidation, or to respond appropriately in the event of violations. Belgium is also a member of the Multilateral Organisation Performance Network (MOPAN), a network of bilateral donors that assesses the management systems of multilateral organisations. Since 2020, MOPAN has also assessed the systems of those organisations in relation to sexual exploitation, abuse and intimidation. I will ensure that the royal decree is drawn up and published as soon as all the elements are available in order to do so in a quality manner. I would also like to point out that the actors themselves take integrity very seriously and respect the commitments of the integrity charter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u19	Madam Secretary, what message does a victim have about duplication or conflicting rules? Above all, we must ensure the legal certainty of the people on the ground. The excuse to wait a little longer in order not to do any duplication is a very faint excuse. People will only be victims or mothers of a victim and will not dare to say that there is a cross-border behavior because otherwise the aid will no longer be received. So that's a very poor explanation. You also indicate that 93 % of respondents already have a hotline. However, we had approved a neutral central hotline in the law. Maybe the purple-green government has different standards. However, when a law is passed in Parliament, that law must be implemented. When Parliament decides to go for a neutral central hotline, it is absolutely not up to the executive to change that and to settle for what the respondents are doing because the government has confidence in them. Madam Minister, trust is good, but an approved law must be implemented. You're working on the royal decree and you'll publish it, but I don't hear a date. I will, of course, continue to follow up on the file. After all, a year in a victim's life is a very long time. So I am counting on it to be addressed in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u20	Madam Minister, I would like to ask a question about the very dramatic and tragic situation in the Horn of Africa, particularly in Ethiopia and in Tigray. On 4 November 2020, a military conflict broke out between the armed forces of the Federal Government of Ethiopia and the regional government of Tigray. The conflict is still going on, with dramatic consequences. On 10 June, the Head of the UN World Food Agency called for immediate life-saving assistance in Tigray. According to a report by the IPC, more than 400,000 people are already at risk of famine, the highest number in one country since a decade. Moreover, more than 5.5 million people are struggling there and in neighbouring regions with a high level of acute food insecurity. Without urgent measures, two million people who are now in the state of food insecurity could go into famine, the biggest famine since 1984. The UN Agency is asking 10.7 million dollars to support the children in Tigray and the regions of Amhara and Afar, including by providing therapeutic ready-to-eat food and medication and by supporting food waste reduction. The Tigray conflict was also discussed for the first time during a debate by the UN Security Council, where members recognised the situation as very dramatic. Meanwhile, the ICRC collects testimonies, documents the abuses during the conflict and points out to the actors concerned their responsibility to ensure that international humanitarian law is respected. The Prime Minister of Ethiopia announced a ceasefire last week, officially so that humanitarian organisations could provide assistance in Tigray. However, we see that the conflict continues and that access to the region is still blocked. In April 2021, you already made additional funds available to the ICRC, aimed at the reception and protection of victims. Special attention was paid to victims of sexual violence. Now, as predicted, a new food crisis is threatening to break out. What efforts is Belgium making to remedy the current situation? Is the diplomatic pressure being stepped up to achieve the humanitarian access promised by the Prime Minister? In the meantime, I have read that the European Union itself wants to organise a humanitarian air bridge.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u21	Madam Minister, I agree with the concerns expressed by Mrs Reynaert. They were also internationally recognised, including by the European Council, which called for an immediate cessation of hostilities, unlimited humanitarian access and the full withdrawal of Eritrean troops. If Doctors Without Borders decide to move somewhere, then we must be seriously concerned. That decision came after the murder of three employees in three cities in Tigray. Doctors Without Borders, however, is the organisation that always leaves last, that organisation remains the longest everywhere. The danger is enormous, so that there can be no free movement in that region. A large number of people, up to two million, are suffering from famine and food insecurity. We have already released 4 million in funds through the International Red Cross. We are also putting the protection of women first. Testimonies that can be collected in this context shall be documented. The Foreign Affairs Council took place on Monday. In view of the serious situation, the representative of the European Union, Mr Borrell, spoke in favour of a humanitarian air bridge at that meeting. A report was also discussed by the Human Rights Commissioner, Mrs Bachelet, in cooperation with the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission. On the basis of that report, Minister Wilmès intends to examine the possibility of supporting restrictive measures. I would like to know what measures might be involved. Human Rights Watch responded by stating that a resolution of the Human Rights Council is needed to formalise that report. What steps will our country take at bilateral and multilateral level to obtain unrestricted access to humanitarian aid? Will we support the humanitarian air bridge announced by High Representative Borrell? Will additional resources be provided for the food crisis in Ethiopia? What is our position on the report of the UN Human Rights Council and what pressure do we exert to make it a formal resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u22	The situation in the Tigray region is very serious. More than 2 million people need food aid. We are trying to do our bit here to avoid a greater drama. For example, EUR 500 000 of the total contribution we have made this year to the SFERA, the FAO's flexible fund, is specifically allocated to agricultural activities in the Tigray region. About 11,000 households will be helped. I am also looking at how we can strengthen the interventions of the World Food Programme even better. It would be an additional EUR 1.5 million contribution to this organisation, on top of our basic contribution of EUR 15 million over the next three years. The World Food Programme is a very important humanitarian partner in this crisis. They greatly expanded their food programs in Tigray and provided food for about 1.2 million people. We see that they are very well able to obtain the resources effectively on the ground. At worst, if humanitarian access is made impossible, they have the logistical capacity to provide airdrops. This is in addition to the EUR 4 million that we have already specifically foreseen for the ICRC in Ethiopia. Furthermore, Belgium indirectly supports the response to this humanitarian crisis through its support to our humanitarian partner organisations. Investing in these forms of flexible financing is the fastest and most efficient way to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the affected population. The international community, including Belgium and the EU, is calling for a humanitarian ceasefire and free access to humanitarian aid. On 28 June 2021, the Ethiopian Government unilaterally announced a humanitarian ceasefire in Tigray. Unfortunately, this positive step has not yet brought about an improvement in the very difficult humanitarian situation. Access to the region remains largely blocked, including for the aid workers. We must, therefore, continue to urge all the warring parties to ensure that humanitarian aid can reach the people in need. For this purpose, the Parties must agree to a negotiated humanitarian ceasefire not just on paper. Since the beginning of the conflict, safeguarding humanitarian access has been an important focus of the European Union in its contacts with the Ethiopian Government. The situation in Ethiopia is also regularly addressed by the EU in other international fora, such as the G7, the United Nations Human Rights Council and the International Monetary Fund. The Security Council also discussed the situation on several occasions. On Monday 12 July, the issue was raised again at the meeting of the European Foreign Ministers. Mrs Sophie Wilmès, on behalf of our country, called on all parties to ensure access to humanitarian aid. An EU humanitarian air bridge provides humanitarian aid to the most vulnerable sections of the population. This air bridge will carry medical equipment, humanitarian cargo and personnel. Air bridge flights are fully funded by the EU. They shall be carried out in coordination with the Member States and the humanitarian organisations sending the equipment, in cooperation with the host country. Our NGO partners are currently looking at the possibilities to participate and identify the humanitarian needs for an air bridge to Tigray. This initiative is coordinated by the Réseau Logistique Humanitarian, in cooperation with the European Commission. The resolution in the UN Human Rights Council falls within the competence of my colleague, the Foreign Minister, but I can tell you that this resolution was adopted on 13 July at the initiative of the European Union. Although Belgium is not currently a member of the UN Human Rights Council, our country has unreservedly expressed its support through the co-sponsorship of the resolution. The resolution calls for the UN Human Rights Council to discuss the human rights situation in Tigray at its meetings in October and February next year, as well as the progress and context of the joint investigation of the High Commissioner and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission. The results of the study are expected in August. You may know that Mr Wilmès had a discussion with European Commissioner Lenarcic yesterday in which she confirmed that Belgium belongs to the group of countries wishing to consider possible sanctions at EU level, in order to provide a strong and credible response to the findings of the report if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I am glad to hear that additional support is being looked at, because the situation is very dramatic. I believe that this is the most serious humanitarian crisis we are seeing at the moment. It seems that the Ethiopian Government is pursuing a conscious strategy to starve and exhaust the region. All the support that can be given to provide food to the most vulnerable, I believe, is absolutely necessary. It is also good to hear that our NGOs are looking at how they can participate in the air bridge. It is also positive that Belgium has given its co-sponsorship to the resolution of the UN Human Rights Council. We look forward to the results of the UN investigation into the crimes in Tigray and the further steps that will be taken. We will continue to question Minister Wilmès about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u24	Madam Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. It is indeed a good thing that Belgium continues to support the World Food Programme and that it has provided additional resources. I believe that we are effectively dealing here with the biggest food crisis in this region. We must have all hands on deck to provide the necessary support for humanitarian aid and the air bridge, together with our NGO partners. As far as the resolution is concerned, it is good to hear that it has been formally adopted. The report from the end of August will be extremely important. After all, we must not work with double standards and two weights, not even through the European Union, where sanctions are easily imposed against certain countries and not against others. I believe that sanctions are really appropriate here. I wonder which criteria still need to be taken into account in order to impose them. It is a good thing that Belgium is following this line, which should have been there for me before. We will await the report. I hope that Belgium will help to implement sanctions against those responsible for Ethiopia.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u25	Madam Secretary, Haitian President Jovenel Moïse was murdered in his house on Wednesday morning 7 July 2021 by a group of heavily armed men. Haiti has been at a political impasse since the beginning of this year and this murder threatens to destabilise the country even more. Acting Prime Minister Claude-Joseph has meanwhile declared martial law. About 60% of the Haitian population lives on barely two dollars a day. Because of the political impasse, Haiti is now in an even more unstable period. Has the current situation in Haiti already been discussed at international level? Did Belgian development aid go directly to Haiti? If so, how many? If not, through which channels did development aid indirectly go to Haiti? Are you considering putting aside any funds until the political situation in Haiti is cleared so that these funds can be put in the right place?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u26	Mrs Samyn, the situation in Haiti is worrying. International consultations have indeed taken place. A closed session of the UN Security Council was held on 7 July 2021. Haiti was also on the agenda of the meeting of 13 July 2021 of the relevant EU Council Working Group. For more information, please contact my foreign minister. As for your question about Belgian aid, Belgium is only active in Haiti through civil society organisations, and through our support for the general resources of our multilateral partner organisations and humanitarian funds. Eleven actors in non-governmental cooperation received grants for a 2017-2021 programme of just over EUR 26 million over five years. The programmes are located in the fields of education, professional training, the social sector, agriculture, health and human rights. In addition, some EUR 681,000 has been made available for the transversal theme Vulnerable Work, a number of which takes place in Haiti. Belgian has no governmental cooperation with the Haitian government, and for the time being we see no reason to deny ongoing funding to civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u27	Madam President, Minister, yesterday I also questioned Mrs Wilmès on this poignant subject. For years, Haiti has been suffering from poverty, violence and political instability. There is no doubt that the recent events are merely pushing Haiti deeper into the ground. The Haitian government has unfortunately failed in recent years to work on peace, security and prosperity. It is also very disappointing that resources often do not reach the right people. We hope that the resources for development will at least reach the people they need. Of course, we hope that this impasse will soon be over and that fair and transparent elections can be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u28	Madam Minister, I regularly question you about the state of play of the government cooperation programmes. My questions today are about Burundi, with which the cooperation programme has been suspended for some time. Is a new cooperation agreement with Burundi envisaged in the context of the evolving political context or can the existing programme be extended? What is the state of play with the other partner countries? In countries in a fragile situation, there is sometimes a need to be able to react flexibly. Are you planning measures to do this, in accordance with your policy paper? Indeed, certain programming cycles do not allow for a flexible response, which is why adjustments need to be made. What changes are we talking about? Has the evaluation of the list of partner countries of government development cooperation already started? Which countries will be targeted?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u29	Mrs Van Hoof, the Burundian authorities have indeed taken a number of positive steps in the area of human rights and good governance. In their new national development plan, they also indicate that they want to work in a more inclusive and decentralised way, with an emphasis on the most vulnerable groups. The Burundian authorities have also committed themselves to a roadmap to make further progress in these areas. The European Union has therefore decided to launch a process to possibly lift the appropriate measures taken in 2015 under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. However, the human rights situation in Burundi remains very worrying and further efforts are needed. The European Union and its Member States, including Belgium, will continue to engage in dialogue with the Burundian authorities and monitor the situation closely. The further development in the field will, of course, have an impact on the process of lifting the measures taken under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement. As far as our bilateral programme is concerned, in view of this context, I preferred not to set up a fully-fledged new cooperation programme with Burundi. However, we will extend the current programmes by two years. During this transition period, we will continue to monitor the evolution of the situation on the ground, in dialogue with the Burundian authorities. At the same time, we are ensuring continuity of our support for the Burundian people pending a possible new fully-fledged cooperation programme. These are the five programmes under way in the fields of health, agriculture and technical and vocational education. These programmes will normally end in June 2022 and will therefore be extended until June 2024. In order to keep annual expenditure around constant, these programmes will receive additional funding of a total of €14.7 million. Enabel recently transferred the technical and financial files for this extension to the administration. After analysis, the administration will submit it to me for approval later this month. For Palestine and Niger, I have sent an instruction letter to Enabel asking for a strategy to be drawn up and a new cooperation book to be prepared. Enabel already made a proposal of strategy for both partners, which I recently approved. The preparatory phase of the portfolio can therefore now begin. Enabel also developed strategies for developing the thematic portfolios on climate in the Sahel and social protection in Central Africa. I am studying these proposals and I hope to be able to approve them very soon, so that we can start developing portfolios there too. For the Democratic Republic of Congo, the letter of instruction which I will shortly send to Enabel is currently being finalised. In the instructions I sent to Enabel, I explicitly asked for flexibility in the new portfolios to take account of crisis situations. However, the new portfolios currently being prepared should follow the modalities of the current management contract between the Belgian State and Enabel. This management contract allows for some flexibility, in particular by providing a budgetary reserve that can be used to respond to changed circumstances. The preparation of the new management contract with Enabel will look at how we can achieve even more flexible use of budgetary resources in the future. Finally, I have also asked my administration to evaluate the current list of partner countries in governmental cooperation. My desire to continue to focus on the least developed and most fragile countries was clearly reiterated. The result of this evaluation will be transmitted to me in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u30	Thank you for your full answer. It is of course a good thing that we can give positive incentives, with the necessary vigilance, of course; we thought that we would never get out of the impasse around Burundi. Thank you for the update on the other regions. We will also continue to follow up, especially with regard to Central Africa and the Sahel. Especially in the Sahel, there are many challenges in the Nexus Defence and Development Cooperation. That is the only way we can work in the future; we cannot work on development cooperation in isolation. I am also looking forward to the actions you will take in this area. With regard to the evaluation of partner countries, we are likely to gain more insight into this at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u31	As you know, Mrs Van Hoof, I am in favour of a multilateral approach in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines via COVAX. Belgium has financed COVAX for 4 million euros and will donate 4 million vaccines via COVAX by the end of 2021. At European level, we have repeatedly made it clear that Belgium has a preference to redistribute our vaccines via COVAX. Vaccine nationalism is a serious problem. Unlike some other countries, Belgium continued to facilitate the export of vaccines, we avoided export restrictions and assumed our responsibility as a producer country. In order to address the current shortage of production capacity, we need to further scale it up. In some countries, such as India, vaccines from AstraZeneca are already produced under the name Covishield. But we see uncertainty, because Covishield has not yet been recognised in Europe. However, Belgium has recognised the vaccine in order to break this stigmatisation. I am glad to see that other countries within Europe are following our example. Finally, I asked for opportunities to strengthen local production and access to COVID-19 vaccines in partner countries. An initial action was announced in Senegal, where the Institut Pasteur is planning to produce COVID-19 vaccines. A Belgian biotech company participates in this process for the sharing of knowledge and technology. Belgium will support the Senegalese government in structuring their pharmaceutical industry. As you yourself point out, donations will start in July 2021. As a function of deliveries, we count on the donation of 600,000 vaccines from AstraZeneca before the end of July. In August it is estimated that 1 million vaccines can be shared, followed by another 1 million vaccines in September. By the end of 2021, we intend to distribute 4 million vaccines via COVAX. The exact timing, speed and size of the donations is based on the delivery Belgium receives itself. Where the COVAX vaccines go, an independent expert committee is decided on the basis of criteria laid down by the World Health Organisation which assesses the needs and capacities of the vaccine roll-out. Belgium has a regional preference, within which these allocations take place. The first vaccines go to our EU neighbouring countries, the Western Balkans, eastern and southern neighbourhoods and Africa. I do not have any information at the moment that, except South Africa, there are countries that refuse AstraZeneca vaccines. I have expressed my support for the World Health Organisation for the establishment of C-TAP. Belgium therefore signed the declaration drawn up by Costa Rica in 2020 and 2021, which called for the sharing of knowledge, data and patents on a voluntary basis. I also discussed this two weeks ago during my meeting with the Director-General of the World Health Organization, Mr Tedros. In addition to C-TAP, the World Health Organisation also established the technology transfer hub to accelerate local production of, for example, mRNA vaccines. A first hub was recently established in South Africa. Now, of course, it is up to the pharmaceutical industry to seize this opportunity and discuss licences. In short, we are not there yet, but it is important that we continue to put the necessary pressure if we really want to be safe. After all, we are not safe until everyone is safe. Everyone has the right to a high-quality vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u32	Madam Minister, I fully support your message and hence my questions about it. I am very aware that you are also very sensitive to this. As you said, we won't be safe until everyone's safe. We need to be more aware of these variants. We are still very vulnerable at the moment, because of the development of variants, because only 1% of the population has been vaccinated in Africa. That's peanuts. So we're really at the beginning here. I hope that the eyes will open and that there will be no further spread, but I am a little afraid of that. It's a good thing you're following the case very closely. We must, in fact, add to it, not only by dose sharing, but also by supporting the C-TAP. We must also look at intellectual property rights. I read in Mrs Wilmès' report, which is being discussed this afternoon, that we are also continuing to press in the European Union. We can be a pioneer in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u33	Mrs Samyn, I have taken note of the worrying reports about arbitrary arrests and the prevention of peaceful demonstrations in Cuba. Such practices are, of course, unacceptable. I can only answer your question about funding. The other questions fall within the competence of Minister Wilmès. I refer to her answer to those questions. Belgium has only indirect cooperation programmes in Cuba through NGOs, institutional actors and universities. So there is no government cooperation with the Cuban government. Through NGOs such as FOS and IFSI, we work around the worthy work agenda. Scientific research is supported through the university domes ARES and VLIR and the Institute of Tropical Medicine. The financing of local civil society in Cuba is important to support a critical view of society, which can contribute to the development of a more democratic society. I therefore do not think it is appropriate to suspend these forms of cooperation now.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-07-14-definitief-55-commissie-ic554x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. In the meantime, it was also known that a man was killed during the protests. Over the last few days, we have seen poignant images of protesters being tackled very hard by the Cuban security services. The police and military also picked up people on a large scale, not coincidentally critics of the regime. There is no doubt that the island is being authoritarianly run, but that all possible communication channels have also been closed down is hallucinating. In such authoritarian countries the right to freedom of expression and freedom of the press is nil. It is also shocking that the country refuses to participate in the Covax programme. Not only has Cuba been pushing its citizens into poverty for years, but Cuba is refusing to participate in the Covax programme, while the number of infections is growing daily. I therefore hope for a more than critical signal, not only from Belgium, but also from the European Union. If resources and assistance are provided, they must certainly reach the right people.
