ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u1	Colleagues, the GDPR applies to information relating to identified or identifiable natural persons. The consent of the persons concerned by the act is always required when such information is communicated to daily newspapers. It is therefore necessary to ask the person concerned whether they agree that such data concerning such acts should be communicated to such a person for that purpose. In order to ensure adequate protection for transferred data, a processing agreement must also be concluded between the controllers and the controller. Beyond the possible application of the GDPR, the issuance of copies and extracts of civil status documents is regulated by article 29 of the former Civil Code. It is not intended that such data be provided in any other way than those provisions which do not envisage the provision of civil status data to regional daily newspapers unless such data become available to the public. For them to become so, you have to have patience. Specifically, 50 years are required for death certificates, 75 years for marriage certificates and 100 years for others, such as birth certificates. The reporting of such data is therefore limited. As an answer to your second question, I would like to clarify that neither the address of the deceased nor the place of burial nor his address are in the death certificate. With regard to the other data that you mention in the death certificate (name, first names, place and date of birth, place, date and time of death), the purpose of their transmission to the members of the College and the purpose of the processing of these data are unclear. However, they do not appear to meet the requirements of the GDPR when it applies, i.e. a legal obligation to provide information that is non-existent or the public interest that is lacking. Beyond the possible application of the GDPR, the law determines the purposes and access to the BASC, i.e. the Data Bank of the Acts of the Civil State, as well as access to these data in the form of extracts and copies of the acts. The registrar himself has access to the BAEC. However, there is no reason why the data contained in the death certificates should be disseminated to the members of the College of the Townmaster and Aldermen, unless these data have become available to the public as a result of the passage of time. The law therefore does not provide for such dissemination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u2	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your clear and clear answer. We will therefore return to the African practice of tam-tam and oral voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u3	Madam President, Minister, this is a short but important question about the Catalan rapper Valtònyc, who is staying in Belgium. In Spain, he is prosecuted for making statements about the Spanish king. He did not call for hatred or violence, but used his right to the free speech. There are actually two things going on right now. Our Belgian judges must judge exactly what they will do with these cases. That is why I would have liked to have heard your views, but I assume that you will refer to respect for the judiciary. More fundamentally, I would like to see what our Parliament itself can do on the basis of legislative proposals, and possibly as a minister with draft laws. In Belgium too, majesty desecration is a criminal offence. Given that existing arrangement with us, this means that this rapper can be more easily extradited to Spain, although I hope it never happens. Amnesty International refers to the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court says that such legislation is not entirely correct and that countries with such legislation better adapt those laws, as it is an unlawful intrusion into freedom of expression. Minister, do you support Amnesty International's request to stop criminalising majesty in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u4	Madam President, Mr Loones, your question concerns freedom of expression, as guaranteed by Article 19 of our Constitution. Of course, you also know Article 151 of our Constitution, which guarantees the independence of the judiciary and its judicial function. So it is not about what I support as Minister of Justice or not, it is about the independence of our judicial authority and the appreciation of a European arrest warrant in accordance with European rules. In the present case, it is up to the judicial authorities to decide whether an extradition for insulting the Spanish monarch is possible. I agree with you that until now, the Belgian justice system has not allowed the extradition of Mr Valtònyc to Spain, just as the extradition of Mr Puigdemont to Spain has not been authorised by the Belgian justice system. Then I come to your second question. Under the law of 6 April 1847, majesty desecration in our country is, in fact, punishable, and still punishable. It goes without saying that these criminal provisions are at odds with freedom of expression, even if we read about the European Court of Human Rights. Indeed, the European Court of Human Rights has held in several judgments that majesty desecration is at odds with Article 10 of the ECHR. However, it does not follow from Strasbourg's ruling that a ban on majesty desecration in its entirety would be incompatible with the current legal framework. An individualised constitutional review of what was said, sung or written should be carried out, examining whether a restriction of freedom of expression is necessary. The European Court of Human Rights also states that, when analysing whether or not to restrict freedom of expression, a distinction should be made between expressions relating to the institutional role of the Head of State and expressions relating to the private or individual dignity of the Head of State. The latter category, according to the European Court of Human Rights, is not a legitimate political criticism. In this context, it is important to point out that a question for a preliminary ruling is currently pending before the Constitutional Court, submitted by the Board of Appeal of the Court of Appeal in Ghent. The question is whether Article 1 of the Law of 1847 violates Article 19 of our Constitution, read in conjunction with Article 10 of the ECHR. That case is still pending and I look forward with great interest to the verdict of our Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u5	Minister, your first answer on respect for the rule of law made perfect sense. Your second answer was interesting. Let's talk like Republicans and people who believe in the free word among themselves. A ruling is indeed expected from the Constitutional Court and we will see what it says. At the same time, a bill is already in place in the Chamber to abolish the desecration of majesty. This was already the case in the previous legislature, and that proposal was signed by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, chairman of the committee. The proposal is now being drawn up by Mr Buysrogge. The N-VA Group is therefore ready to represent all Republicans, but above all also to provide additional protection for all those who are in favour of the free word. Those who do not encourage hatred or violence should not be punished in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u6	Minister, in the prison of Root, a prison guard was punished following the escape of a Tunisian inmate in January 2020, who managed to climb over the fence through a hole in the wall and with tied sheets. It is strange that the prison system has apparently held one of its staff responsible for the escape. The man was punished, initially having to give up 20% of his salary for a year, which was reduced by degree of appeal to six months. That is still a particularly severe punishment. The guards rightly state that this punishment is unjust and absolutely disproportionate. The cause of the escape is not the guard, but a failing security system. Fortunately, the guards are in solidarity with the punished colleague and will raise until August to compensate for the loss of wages. That cannot be the intention at all. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the punishment? What is your position? Are you aware that the security system is not working properly, that there is regularly false alarm and that there are still too many dark corners due to insufficient lighting, which is conducive to escape? Will you take initiatives to address the problem? I realise, of course, that that is not your competence, but you can consult with the Secretary of State for Buildings. The fellow guards say that the management clearly needed a scapegoat, because the reason for the escape was the security system. If that had been okay, the escape wouldn't have happened. They are right to say that the security staff cannot do anything about the infrastructure. Will you take an initiative to straighten the case, and make sure that the loss of wages is undone?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u7	Mrs Dillen, in answer to your first question, it is the hierarchical superior who leads the disciplinary investigation and then the Executive Committee of the FPS Justice which imposes disciplinary sanctions. As a minister, I cannot and must not intervene in this. In response to your second question, any serious incident will be investigated in order to avoid the possibility of similar incidents. The investigation has indeed shown that safety installations could be improved in several respects. On the other hand, the overclimbing security functioned properly and generated the necessary alarms that night. With regard to the points to be improved, immediate contact was made with the relevant department of the Government of the Buildings. Meanwhile, the works were tendered and largely executed. Additional outdoor lighting has been placed. Additional cameras were placed, which were hired on March 24th, so a week ago. Adjustments were made to prevent ascension. The reinforcement of the interior walls is planned to be carried out in May. In response to your last question, as I have already said, additional security work was carried out; the overclimbing protection did indeed function as it should.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u8	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I didn't say you imposed that sanction. Of course, that is not your competence, but it is very regrettable that a security system that is not working properly removes and punishes one guard. 20% loss of earnings for six months is a severe penalty. Guards don't make any fortunes at all. That 20% is a lot of money. Apart from that, it is absolutely a matter of principle. You said the necessary alarms worked that night, but there was continuous, day and night, false alarm. The fact that it was immediately necessary to carry out a number of improvements in that prison is a very clear proof that the escape was due to the ill-functioning system and not to the guard. I would therefore ask you to consider taking some initiative to restore the man as it were.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about a matter that has been very animated in the last Parliament, namely the Libyan funds file. At the beginning of the year, this issue has seen new twists, particularly as a result of the decision of the United Nations Sanctions Committee, which is why it is still a topical issue. In addition, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office is responsible for following up the investigation, among other things as to the need to shed light on the accusations against several people, including Jean-Claude Fontinoy, who is accused of being bribed in 2017, against his favourable intervention in the Libyan funds file. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office must provide answers to this very complex case, which includes many shaded areas. In addition, the Paris Match weekly revealed at the beginning of February that it was not possible to know, at this stage, with certainty which prosecutor was in charge of follow-up to the investigation, whether the witness had been heard and, above all, whether the minutes transmitted to a police service and to the investigating judge had indeed been received. According to Paris Match, this report is not likely to be available either from the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption or from DR4 (the financial section of the Federal Judicial Police). You will have understood, minister, the statements are multiple and intertwined. Given that this is not obvious in the case of an ongoing investigation, I would therefore not like to have your opinion on this investigation, but rather to know what the means are available. Are the will and means mobilized to shed light on this long-standing case? At the time, your predecessor, Koen Geens, had assured us that all means would be used and strengthened to complete this investigation. I would like to know if this is the case today, and if you can give us any further details on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u10	Mr Vanden Burre, I confirm that this case is indeed open to the Brussels Prosecutor's Office and, like my predecessor, that all the means are available to inform this case. However, it is not up to me, as Minister of Justice, to comment on individual cases, much less to interfere with them. The trias politica and article 151 of our Constitution on the independence of the judiciary in an individual case are important to me, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament 55015631C by Mrs Van Hoof is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u12	Minister, all aid organisations have reported a huge increase in calls for intra-family violence during the lockdown. One even speaks of an increase of 66%, when comparing the figures for 2020 with those for 2019. It seems strange, therefore, that if the police figures are placed next to them, they just show a huge drop in the number of notifications during the lockdown. However, that is not so strange, because I say from the start of the lockdown that attention should be paid to this. Addressing intra-family violence is one of your priorities and at the end of last year, the College of Attorneys General issued a COL on the generalisation of police revisiting in situations of partner violence during the corona crisis. This measure partly responds to my concern, because the clearly increasing facts during this difficult period are also reported. Minister, how do you assess the implementation of COL? Do you consider any additional interventions possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u13	Mr President, the questions put by Mrs Van Peel are justified. According to police records, the number of cases of intrafamilial violence dropped last year, which contradicts the increase in calls on 1712. Of course, the extra campaign after the third episode of If you knew on Canvas to familiarize people with the number 1712 to report certain situations, will increase the number of calls, especially now that people are back home again because of the Easter break due to corona. What means do you release so that the parquet can process and track all notifications? I also see in the figures a trend that more and more neighbors are beginning to report such things. How do you see this positive trend in which external persons are also starting to sound the alarm bell? Are you planning measures to reinforce this trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the circulars COL 15/2020 and COL 20/2020 are important tools in the fight against intra-family violence. In those directives, the follow-up, in whatever form, for example by telephone or by revisiting, is in any case part of the regular assignments, either of its own motion or by order of the public prosecutor. The COL20/2020 has only been in force for a dozen weeks and could not therefore be thoroughly evaluated. The Standing Committee of Local Police has recently signed the Justipol consultation platform for the evaluation of the various COLs. The evaluation is therefore on the agenda. It is good to know that 1712 is not a notification number where all calls have to be automatically passed on to the police and the Justice Department. There will first be a treatment by the services of the Flemish Community and the call will only be passed on to the police and the justice system if there are criminal offences. I can only release resources in the area of justice. By the way, I will be recruiting a bunch of criminalists this year, just to deal with files of intra-family violence. As far as the help line 1712 is concerned, I must refer you to the Flemish Community. The parquet takes all the facts of intra-family violence seriously. The College has been dealing with the matter with the necessary priority for a long time. With the various COLs introduced in recent years, including the revisit, we ensure that the victims are adequately monitored. The Family Justice Centers of the Flemish Government also play an important role in this, as victim care is a part state competence. The so-called chain approach is therefore necessary and central here. In such cases there is always a key function for sensitisation, so that one knows how to recognize the signals and help people on the way. The help lines at the sub-state level play a very important role in this. In conclusion, the phenomenon of intra-family violence is a priority for the Justice and Police. So I am certainly prepared to carry out the evaluation of the COLs together with you at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u15	Minister, I understand that it is still early for an evaluation, but I am going to ask your colleague Verlinden the same question and I hope that she will have a different view on the matter. After all, it has been known for a year, since the first lockdown, that the figures of intra-family violence are rising enormously. At the COL about the recontact we had to wait a long time, although I really ask for that from the first lockdown. I see the numbers are still not following. If we evaluate this only after the lockdowns, which I hope will of course end someday, it will of course be of little use, although the re-contact recording can also be maintained in the day-to-day operation. I understand, however, that at the moment you are unable to answer it, so I will come back to it in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your good answer. You say intra-family violence is followed in the form of a phone call or a revisit. I urge you to be on the scene in the first place. I'm asking you to look into that with your services. A phone call seems less obvious to me, if the perpetrator is also present in the house at that time. The people need to be seen, they need to be spoken to face to face. That seems to me to be the minimum. There really isn't much to check or say on the phone. For a revisit one really has to go on the spot. Can you at least give some indication of the date by which we can expect the in-depth evaluation? I find your plan to recruit criminologists very interesting. Can you indicate by a number how many you'd like to recruit? Finally, we need to look at how we can make neighbours even more aware of the problem than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the federal government, which wanted to recognize the essential contribution of health care workers in times of covid-19, and the increased overload and penitence caused by the pandemic, decided to grant them a single covid-19 premium. It was first reserved for hospital care staff, then extended to home nursing staff, home workers and self-employed nurses who provide home and hospital benefits. However, it appears that a category of caregivers has been forgotten. I want to talk here about health workers in prison. Like their colleagues in free society, they have seen their working conditions that are already difficult, as we know, made even more painful by the pandemic. However, these caregivers do not benefit from the covid-19 premium and express misunderstanding of this exclusion. Minister, what are the reasons for not granting the covid-19 bonus to nursing staff working in prison? Will you, in cooperation with your colleague Frank Vandenbroucke, propose to the government to extend the scope of this premium again to include those workers who have not proven to be less essential in the crisis than their colleagues in free society?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u18	Madam President, dear colleague, first of all I would like to point out that I have a great deal of respect for the work that is being done by prison nurses. Since the fall of 2020, our prisons have not been spared the covid-19 pandemic and this has dramatically increased the workload and health risks of nurses in prisons. I would like to thank them for their efforts, but I have come to the painful conclusion that the Royal Order of 22 December establishing the funding of the terms for the introduction of a solidarity bonus in the federal health care sectors cannot under any circumstances apply to them. As a result, I have examined the possibility of allocating a specific and unique covid-19 allowance for prison nurses. As I have already said in response to Mr. Boukili's question on February 24, I have come to the conclusion that staff in other federal public services who have a care function should also be entitled to such an allowance. So I did not fail to ask my colleague in charge of the public service to look into this issue. In the meantime, the Minister of Public Service has confirmed to me that she will not take any initiative, but has no objection to my granting a covid-19 specific allowance to prison nurses. As a result, my services are currently working on a draft royal decree for the granting of this one-time allowance. The draft royal decree is ready and is currently being submitted to the various authorities for their opinion. As soon as I receive the opinions and there is an agreement with the trade unions, this decision will be put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u19	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer and for this good news. I'm glad to hear it's on the track. I will be delighted to know the follow-up and thank you already for communicating them to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u20	Minister, I am very close to the issue of freedom of expression. In January, I asked you about this and told you that I would continue to follow up on this matter. De facto platforms like Facebook and Twitter actually provide a public service, where they are also almost monopoly for many people in thought and debate exchange. We agree on that, but every bird sings the way it's beaked. Today, encouraged by, among other things, the European Union, which is now launching the Digital Services Act, these platforms are acting extremely repressively. People are being arranged for highly questionable reasons to ban the platform. Social media engage in self-justification and act without the intervention of a court. In the question I have put, I give an excellent example. Someone used the term "French pussies," referring to 1302. The Facebook algorithms made another link and banned the man in question for 30 days. This week I have been informed that someone has been accused by Facebook of using hateful language with the statement "The Suez Canal is free again, Dutch still the most punishing sailors on the planet, to the regret of whom it envies." He was warned of this message by Facebook that he was violating the community rules. This is particularly disturbing. Can you update the discussions on the Digital Services Act? Do you believe that the ruling of the aforementioned citizens will pass the test with the constitutional right to freedom of expression, or have they indeed failed to do so? Can you agree that rigid algorithms all too often fail to understand puns or jokes that make regular mistakes and therefore require a prior review by a court before someone is banned from social media?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u21	Thank you, Mr De Roover, for recognising the importance of freedom of expression. I would like to refer to what you said in Parliament in the summer of 2016 when you wanted to introduce a distant and unbridled restriction of that same freedom in order to eliminate potential radicalisation. Having said that, I would like to thank you for the careful follow-up to this European instrument. I refer first of all to my answer to your question of 13 January. I fully share your finding that certain very large online platforms, which are now playing a primordial role in our society, can have a real impact on freedom of expression in view of their function of content-moderation on that public space. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that these online platforms are legally free to impose certain restrictions in the context of their general conditions of use, in so far as their application remains in accordance with fundamental rights and legislation in force. The Digital Services Act now offers us the opportunity to better regulate the functioning of these platforms in function of freedom of expression. Indeed, the Digital Services Act should provide an opportunity to establish an ambitious, efficient and proportionate legal framework for regulating the function of content-moderation on the digital platforms, thus ensuring the protection of public order as well as the freedom of expression of users. The Digital Services Act should also allow for the restoration and guarantee of competition between providers, so that there is a wider choice of social networks for users and thus wider scope for using their freedom of expression on the Internet. Then I come to your first question on the state of play. This dossier is now the subject of rather technical discussions in the Council of the European Union. The European Commission has set itself the objective of achieving the adoption of this legislative instrument next year. In reply to your second and third questions, without commenting on the specific cases you quoted, I share your opinion on the problems associated with automated decision-making on the basis of algorithms and on the risks that may arise from them in terms of freedom of expression. Indeed, the illegal nature of certain content may depend on its context. Automated tools can hardly take that context into account. I would like to highlight three important points. Firstly, transparency. Independent controls are essential to the application of its own general conditions of use by the online platforms. Secondly, effective remedies allowing each user to have appropriate legal means in the event of a violation of his or her freedom of expression. Clear and accessible information on available customer mechanisms and remedies is important in this respect. Remember the discussion about using language. Thirdly, guarantees in the use of automated tools. Such automated tools in maintenance mode are increasingly being used in the fight against illegal online content due to the significant amount of illegal online content and the speed with which it is disseminated. However, it requires appropriate safeguards to mitigate the risks related to fundamental rights and to ensure that those tools will be used in a transparent, non-discriminatory manner and will also be flanked by human control.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u22	Minister, despite your speed of speech, you have not been able to stay within the time. I don't have a problem with that, even though I feel sorry for the interpreters. I look forward to the report. If I were to help you in implementing government policy, which says in the coalition agreement that people want to fight fake news, I would have to ask for the deletion of the first part of your reply in the report. You've been spreading fake news there, you've been doing that regularly, and you're gonna keep it up. I hope that, as in 2016, I will find you on my side in combating calls for violence. If you had limited yourself to that in your policy, you would have given a reassuring answer here. I don't know if I'm so reassured. You say that it is difficult to impose restrictions, but it seems that the Digital Services Act can force the social media giants to restrict freedom of expression rather than the judge himself. You have shown little concern and I fear that you have gradually thrown away your own liberal principles. Maybe that's the price you had to pay in this government. In any case, I hope that after fake news you will not re-introduce newspeak by saying that the Digital Services Act, which actually threatens freedom of expression, would be just a protection of freedom of expression. You know the book 1984. George Orwell has written interesting things about that. Maybe it's Easter recess time to reread those works.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u23	Madam President, excuse me for speaking more quickly. However, I would like to give all the members of the committee the opportunity to ask and see their questions dealt with today. Otherwise, they will have to wait another three weeks. That's why I speak faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u24	We are doing our best, but I fear that we will not reach the end of the agenda. Debates of the European Parliament 55015697C by Mrs De Wit is hereby withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I questioned you not so long ago about the judgment of the Court of Justice of 2 March - H.K. versus Prokurature. That was in line with what we could expect from the Court, namely that preventive storage of and access to electronic communications data should be restricted in the context of judicial investigations. The Court says that access for investigative services to electronic communications data from which precise conclusions on privacy can be drawn will only be admissible in the fight against serious crime and in the event of a serious threat to public security. For the Court, restrictions, such as the duration of the retention of requested data and their quantity, do not affect the dike. Those restrictions are therefore not sufficient. You replied to me last time that your services were analysing the judgment with a view to any adjustments. I really think that we should be done with that, because if the Belgian Constitutional Court effectively passed a judgment on destruction, it could result in the investigators on one day losing their most important tool in these criminal investigations. I really don't like to let go of this, which is why I'm asking. Have you been able to complete the analysis of that judgment of 2 March? What conclusions were drawn from this? You also replied that there will be debates on this at the European level. Is a European solution envisaged? When do you expect the Constitutional Court's ruling?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u26	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, thank you for your attention on this important subject. As you know, I pay a great deal of attention to this and I ask my services every week to make progress with it. This is a very complex matter. Several Cabinets are working together on a solution. As I said in the answer to your question of 9 March, the judgment is in line with the case law on data retention, in particular the judgment of 6 October. It is a complex legal and technical matter, in which every word has its importance. The Court calls for the application of the principle of proportionality in relation to the relationship between the seriousness of the interference versus the weightiness of the general interest objective. On the basis of this principle, the Court considers that only serious crime and a serious threat to public security justify a serious violation of fundamental rights, such as the general and undifferentiated retention of location and traffic data. The Court shall establish a direct link between the purposes for which detention is imposed and the purposes pursued by access. In this sense, access to location and traffic data can only be justified by the same general interest objective for which the retention of electronic communications service providers has been imposed. The conclusion is therefore that access to location and traffic data can only be justified by the public interest objective for which the retention of electronic communications services has been imposed on providers, namely the objective of combating serious crime and preventing the serious threat to public security. The modalities of access to the data fall within the national competence of each Member State. They should be established in accordance with the right to a fair trial and limited to what is strictly necessary. Such a scheme should contain clear and precise rules laying down the scope and application of the measures concerned and imposing minimum requirements. With regard to the competent authority which may request access, the Court considers that access to the retained data is subject to prior review by a judicial authority. Such review requires that that court or entity is able to ensure a fair balance between the interests related to the needs of the investigation and the fundamental rights to respect for privacy. The Court therefore concludes that the body in charge of the prior review should not be involved in the conduct of the criminal investigation in question and should be neutral vis-à-vis the parties and criminal proceedings. This raises the question of the role of the investigating judge in our law, which, on the basis of Article 88a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, may request access to traffic and location data. On the basis of Article 56 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigating judge shall be responsible for the judicial investigation, which shall be conducted on a charge or charge basis. He or she shall ensure the legality of the means of proof and the loyalty with which they are collected. The investigating court is therefore expressly responsible for the legality check. The neutrality of the investigating court therefore seems to be guaranteed. However, the question remains whether the investigating judge can be regarded as, I quote: 'not involved in the conduct of the criminal investigation concerned'. In the specific case of Estonia, the result of the H.K. judgment. against Prokuratuur, that was not the case for the Public Prosecutor, who is in charge of the investigation procedure and, where appropriate, acting as a prosecutor. A investigating judge takes a place in Belgian law other than a magistrate of the Public Prosecutor's Office. As far as your second question is concerned, there have been debates at European level on data retention following the various judgments of the European Court of Justice. At the meeting of the JHA Council in March 2021, the Portuguese Presidency launched a debate on the willingness of the different Member States to draw up European legislation. This showed that most Member States are in favour of such a European solution. Our country has also joined. I also spoke at that meeting, of course via videoconference. However, a more in-depth debate is needed to establish the various basic elements in line with the case law of the European Court of Justice and European fundamental rights. Finally, the ruling of our Constitutional Court is expected in the course of April 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u27	Minister, I think we are not quite there yet. We will have to wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court and then look into what chapter we should continue to play in. We will certainly follow up on this further, because it is really essential that there is a clear and adequate solution. Otherwise we will have problems with our criminal investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament 55015741C by Mrs Rohonyi has been withdrawn because she has already been put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u29	Mr Minister, my question concerns the register in which magistrates can report side mandates and the large number of committees in which magistrates sometimes sit. However, for reasons of efficiency, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u30	Madam President, the system of declaration of mandates by the magistrates and the ancillary posts, as included in the Di Rupo Government's agreement, was ultimately not implemented. Consequently, there is no central register today. However, the seat of a committee, board and/or committee shall be subject to prior authorisation or ministerial designation on an ad hoc basis. As far as possible, also as far as possible, recourse is made to retired magistrates. Moreover, Article 294a of the Court's Code has created a general legal basis for this purpose. The number of committees set up by the legislator and the legislator is very diverse and extensive in the most diverse areas of social life. For a very large number of committees, the same legislator, decreer or decreer determines that they are at least partly composed of magistrates and often chaired by them, obviously because of the special expertise that magistrates can teach and their affinity with the procedural rules that apply also in disciplinary and appeal proceedings as well as in disputes. Since the FPS Justice is not always involved in the creation or dissolution of all these committees and councils and since this is done on a frequent basis, there is no complete comprehensive overview to date. In 2019, however, a list was created of the then known possibilities of secondary functions for magistrates. That was 270 at the time. Since most of the committees in which magistrates sit have been set up by the legislator, the decreer or the decreer, and these belong to their exclusive competence, it is not possible for me to take initiatives aimed at reducing the number of committees. I am not necessarily opposed to the participation of magistrates in committees and advisory councils. The fact that magistrates engage within a commission or an educational assignment often also means an added value for the court, the parquet and the magistrate himself and also allows the magistrate to maintain the touch with society in all its aspects. The possibility of secondary positions can also be a means of making the profession of magistrate more attractive, for example in conjunction with teaching assignments at a university. It is clear that this should not be at the expense of the judicial activity. An audit carried out by the Hoge Raad on staff management in the courts of first instance, which dates back to January 2018, has shown that participation in secondary activities is not perceived as problematic by the corps superiors. The secondary activities would not, to the extent perceived, have a negative impact on the work carried out by the magistrates. Many chiefs merely give a favourable opinion on the conduct of secondary activities to magistrates who are not lagging behind, provided that this does not substantially hypothesize the actual work of magistrates. However, I can recommend to the legislators, legislators and regulators that whenever they set up a committee, they should assess whether the presence of magistrates in those committees is strictly necessary and whether certain tasks or roles in, for example, disciplinary chambers cannot be exercised by senior officials, lawyers, lawyers and others. As far as your last question is concerned, the number of committees within the domain of Justice in which magistrates sit is relatively limited. The various bodies in which magistrates can take up mandates or assignments or otherwise operate are legally well defined and directly linked to the administration of the judicial organisation. I am referring to the College of the Courts and Courts, the Board of Directors of the Institute for Judicial Training and the Supreme Court of Justice. They each have a distinct finality. It is not illogical to involve magistrates in the administration of the judicial organisation in this way. It seems to me a point of attention to avoid that outside the judicial system there would be unwise recourse to magistrates to take up certain tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u31	Minister, the intention of the Di Rupo Government to establish such a register has not been realised. However, that could be useful. Magistrates must, of course, be independent and this can contribute to transparency in this respect. Furthermore, I am convinced that it may be useful for magistrates to sit on advisory councils, but the list I requested at the time shows that there are a lot of advisory councils. These magistrates must, of course, be able to continue to exercise their core role of justice in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u32	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the evaluation of the family courts has not yet taken place. In January 2020, it was decided to order university institutions to carry out this evaluation by means of a public tender. The COOVID-19 pandemic and the long period of ongoing cases delayed the process. For practical reasons, the implementation of the evaluation seemed unthinkable at a time of lockdown and when conditions improved, the time frame was too short to complete another qualitative study. That is why no candidates have submitted their applications within the time limits of the public tender. Consequently, a new public tender will be launched by the FPS Justice. I therefore intend to amend Article 273 in order to postpone the evaluation. Given the lead time of a public tender and the time needed to complete the study, I propose that the communication of the study be postponed to the Court until the year 2023. In this way the evaluation can be carried out thoroughly and properly, as it is appropriate for such an important matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u34	Mr Minister, I have already looked at the problem of peace courts and police courts in the Brussels district. I would like to refer to the written version of my follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u35	I am aware that it is difficult to find enough peace judges and judges for the police courts in the judicial district of Brussels. Currently, 19 of the 26 judicial cantons have a peace judge-titularist. Seven cantons are currently vacant or are sighted by an alternate. Three places were published on 16 October 2020. No candidate showed up. On February 5th of this year three more places were published and one person was nominated. The recruitment procedure is still in the advisory phase. In the case of deputy peace judges, 82 of the relations were completed on a maximum framework of 156. This cannot be separated from the special language requirements applicable to those jurisdictions and according to which all peace judges must prove a thorough knowledge of the other language of the country. The Supreme Court of Justice also refers in general to the declining interest in the office of magistrate. In any case, it is my intention to boost the influx into the magistrate by, among other things, extending the already existing possibility of attracting experienced lawyers for the appointment as magistrate, the so-called third access road. There has already been some polarisation. For this purpose, I refer to the Royal Decree of 8 July 2017, which was subsequently amended several times in order to bring together, among other things, for the Brussels peace courts. I took note of several proposals to go further into this. The great advantage is that peace judges and clerks can be used more flexibly according to the workload and their substantive expertise. In this context, I can also refer to the already existing possibility created by the legislator in 2014 which allows a certain degree of mobility in a judicial district. For example, all peace judges are appointed in a canton, but also in subsidiary order in all other cantons of the judicial district. The proposal to continue Pooling is currently being examined and prepared by the Department of Legislation for possible further legislative initiatives. The current structure, in which the Presidents of the Courts of First Instance play a role vis-à-vis the peace courts and the police courts, is the result of various unified balances in the reform of the judicial district of Brussels. In the meantime, both Presidents of the Court of First Instance, the Supreme Court and the peace courts and police courts have repeatedly raised the problems of the current structure. It certainly seems desirable to bring the Presidency to the peace and police courts themselves, as is the case in the other districts of the country, except in Eupen. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I am aware that you yourself submitted a legislative proposal on 5 March. It is my intention to launch a legislative initiative in this area which not only regulates the Presidency of the peace and police judges in their own ranks, but also appoints a chief clerk. After all, it is intended that the Brussels peace courts and police courts should have their own management committee. This will also be necessary for further steps towards independent management in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, a pity that there are not enough candidates to fill those posts. You are committed to this and I hope you will succeed. I believe that polarisation can also contribute to a solution. I am also pleased that you will take an initiative to regulate the Presidency. I have indeed taken the initiative myself. At the time, in the Sixth State Reform, we already mentioned that the Presidency, as it is now regulated, would be problematic. But look, there is progressive insight and the issue will hopefully be resolved. In fact, I am not the only one who has a legislative proposal pending; I believe that Mr Goffin had already taken an initiative in the previous legislature. In any case, we look forward to the outcome of your initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u37	Minister, could you please indicate what the current and exact situation is in the prison in Saint-Gilles, in view of the elements revealed by the press release of the ILO and the League of Human Rights? What are and will be the concrete measures, including the possible consideration of alternatives to pre-trial detention, in order to contain the situation? Have any measures already been taken? If so, which ones and what others do you intend to take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u38	Dear colleague, the Saint-Gilles prison applies instructions on the fight against the pandemic as promulgated by the central administration. Many activities cannot take place because of these instructions. Thus, the fitness rooms are closed, the books can still be borrowed but the library is not accessible at the moment. Transfers are almost always made, unless an inmate or wing is subject to a health rule. As far as prison leave and leave are concerned, the rules laid down at the national level are respected. The prison in Saint-Gilles is a prison that receives a few thousand inmates every year. Currently, these inmates are placed in preventive quarantine in wing E. This preventive quarantine is provided for by the service instructions related to the corona crisis. In preventive quarantine, they are entitled to a walk and a shower but there is no visit to the table. However, a virtual tour is possible. Wing E works under the bubble system. The constant organization of a walk and a shower in groups much smaller than normal generates a lot of extra work. These quarantine detainees do not normally go to hearings unless specifically requested by the investigating judge. This preventive quarantine is of its importance. It forms a health buffer between the incoming population and the population already present and helps protect the population already present from epidemics of viruses in prison. Every week, the prison in Saint-Gilles faces the arrival of several inmates whose test is positive. Most of these detainees are transferred to the covid units of the prisons of Bruges and Lantin. In total, more than 80 prisoners covid entered the prison. A 2D wing section houses inmates in medical isolation or inmates who have been tested positive and are asymptomatic. They cannot be transferred to the Bruges or Lantin covid units. At times, this section is particularly empty, but sometimes it is full, as is currently the case. The stay in this section is of course temporary. From February 16 to March 2, there were about 40 patients on the psychiatric annex due to covid-19 contamination. It concerned a detained person and a staff member. The detained persons were able to walk during their quarantine, and a limited number of them were able to take a shower. Care and psychosocial support were provided. On Sunday, 7 March, about half of the inmates in wing A had to be quarantined due to contamination. As this is the wing of the inmates who work, almost the entire kitchen team had to be replaced. In practice, this sometimes leads to delays in the distribution of meals. On Thursday, March 11, a B wing inmate was tested positive in a fit to fly procedure. As a result, about half of wing B was quarantined. The quarantines of wings A and B are free of walks and showers. Additional hot water is provided. Staff demanded full containment of wings A and B and went on strike for 24 hours because management did not take immediate action. Following internal consultations, management decided to test all wing A and B inmates in order to have the best possible view of the situation and to make decisions accordingly. This has given four positive results in wing B, which is now in full quarantine. This also gave ten positive results in wing A, which was placed in full confinement. Again, a number of essential services had to be provided by new inmates, but the food and canteen service had never been compromised. The positive and negative detainees were separated. Management decided to give all staff the opportunity to be tested. Due to the contamination of wing A, Saint-Gilles Prison has seen a significant decrease in the number of staff in recent days. So far, I am aware of five recent staff contaminations, three of which are normally related to the source of A wing contamination. All inmates on wings A and B were tested a second time on Friday, March 19. On wing A, this did not give rise to additional positive tests. On wing B, three additional positive tests were obtained. In conclusion, there was an internal home, but action was taken quickly and correctly. The home was kept under control thanks to the good cooperation of many people on the ground. Since 25 March, partial confinement has been lifted. As far as your second question is concerned, alternatives to pre-trial detention obviously remain measures to contain prison overcrowding. For example, I note that the use of electronic monitoring with GPS is a measure that is increasingly being used. Until 29 March, there were 582 people monitored through this measure, while this figure was regularly below 500 in 2020. I would like to point out that these are decisions taken by the judiciary in full independence. However, concrete measures had been taken in the context of the second wave to limit the prison population and create sufficient space to isolate, if necessary, some prisoners. Thus, since 27 November, early releases covid-19 are possible and are governed by Ministerial Circular No. 1822. On the basis of Ministerial Circular No. 1823, interruptions of sentences have also been possible since 3 December. These measures were coming to an end today, but health conditions have not improved recently, on the contrary. The measures in question will therefore be extended. As with the outside world, vaccination remains the best way to contain any risk. It is this measure that I intend to implement well. To this end, I have already announced to this committee that vaccination has already started for certain establishments. The operation will expand and begin as on the outside, targeting inmates who are most at risk from this virus. This parallels the measures taken outside prisons and remains an important element, both for the coherence and motivation of prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u39	Mr Minister, thank you for the transparency you have shown and for all the information you have given us. I'll start with the end of your speech. I welcome your action in the field of vaccination. You are able to get started as quickly as possible, especially for prisoners, but I also assume for staff who are at risk in the various prisons. You're right, vaccination will remain the best way to stem this spread. I also thank you for your transparency. Without ambiguity and without concealing anything, you mention the various problems that took place in wings E, D, B and A and in the psychiatric wing at the prison of Saint-Gilles, and the problems of the partial confinement that was lifted on March 25th. We are in a particular situation. You recalled it yourself: it is a prison and not a prison. They are therefore prisoners, not convicts. From the moment a person is contaminated, it spreads like a drag of powder with dramatic consequences that go, as I understood it, to transfers to the prisons of Bruges and Lantin for alleged innocent prisoners and therefore also far from their friendly, family setting, possibilities for even secure visits, etc. This leads to additional complications. In any case, I take note of all this information. I am pleased to note that partial confinement has been lifted since March 25, 2021. You tell me that, despite the consequences on wing A, there have not been too many problems, especially on meals, on dormitories, even though the operation has certainly been difficult: bubbles, limitation of exit times, etc. I can imagine all the difficulties there was. Action has been taken and it is positive that we can know this in a clear and transparent way.I can only encourage you, Minister, to move forward on the issue of vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u40	Mr Van Hecke, thank you for that very interesting question. I believe that this is one of the questions that I think is about the essence of justice, with all that we have heard over the last few weeks and months. You refer to the interview in Knack with Judge Denoyelle, but at the same time there was also the interview in De Standaard with Judge Bart Willocx, the President of the Court of First Instance. The previous weekend there was an excellent Free Tribune of another judge, Mr De Waele, on the website of the VRT. I invite you all, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Justice, to read these texts properly once again, because they deal with the essence of justice. What these judges say is indeed particularly relevant, Mr Van Hecke. At the same time, the fact that three prominent judges appear in the press illustrates the importance which the judiciary itself attaches to communication. That is also the way it should be in our democratic rule of law. More than ever, there is talk of justice and its decisions, especially on social media: everyone is a judge, everyone has their own judgment. As far as I am concerned, this may also be true, but there is a lot of talk about justice and perhaps too little by the Justice Department, when there is only one party that knows the whole picture, the facts, the context, the suspects and the victim. For the sake of clarity, that party is not the Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, who, moreover, is obliged to respect the independence of the judiciary in its judicial function. That party is the court that ruled. Only the court can properly inform public opinion, and I believe that this should be the responsibility of the judge. Judgments must be made available to the press and public opinion and, where appropriate, must be explained by the judgment officer, with all guarantees of anonymity and the privacy of the parties. Only in this way can there be a correct and nuanced picture of statements, with a transparent Justice communicating about what it is doing across populism or intentional processes. I refer to the rape case in Ghent, what happened in Beveren and also to other statements that have been made. So we need to focus on communication, along with the state's attorney's office and the seat. We're in that area at a tipping moment, a cultural change. The interviews mentioned by the three leading judges testify to this. In the extra resources that we allocate to the judiciary, communication, and in particular the sentencing officers, is an important point of the management agreements we conclude. The College of the Courts and Courts and the Support Service recognise the importance of a good communication strategy. For this reason, the College commissioned a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking attaché to communicate in the last year. In the future, the College plans to expand the communication team to include sentencing officers who can act as press magistrates of local courts on top of the sentencing officers. Each court shall appoint a Press Office responsible for answering questions from the media on judicial matters relating to the law to which it belongs. For external communication, the website www.rechtbanken-tribunaux.be, with both a federal section and a local section, is an important tool. The website contains the names and coordinates of the sentencing officers. Journalists may apply to access a secure part of the website on which statements and other information are made available. On the federal section the functioning of courts and courts is explained. Both the professional and the citizen will find information about a large number of rates, brochures and others. On the local section, both the professional and the citizen find all kinds of information, such as regulations, appointment notes, forms and documentation. Forms made available can be digitally signed. The College also has an e-group of journalists. Thanks to this group, 11 journalists, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, are now being informed simultaneously of judgments, judgments, information and communications. The College is also active on social networks. Regarding the online publication, your second question, I would like to clarify that not all case law is published online in the Netherlands. On caselaw.nl only part of the caselaw is published, after selection at the level of each court, where the judges make use of the criteria set out in the decision Selection criteria judgment database caselaw.nl. I hear that around 1.5 million decisions are made annually in the Netherlands, while about 500,000, about a third, are available online. As regards the implementation or implementation of the project aimed at the online publication of judgments and judgments, I can refer to my reply to Mr Verherstraeten's oral question at the Justice Commission on Wednesday 20 January 2021. I suppose I don't have to reread that answer. What is the status of compulsory education on sexual violence? I have already answered several questions about this in recent weeks. The compulsory training programme has been developed by the IGO. It includes an introduction module, which is mandatory for half a day for all magistrates, regardless of whether they are required to undergo basic or thorough training. This introduction module addresses, inter alia, the Istanbul Convention, the Grevio recommendations to the judicial world, the concept of a cycle of violence and the burden of proof. In order to allow all the magistrates involved to follow the course, five dates were set for each language role, each on another day of the week. The training was announced very recently. The registration counter currently stands at more than 500. That introduction module will take place on several days in April and May. Basic training covers two days, while in-depth training covers four days. Both basic and in-depth training will start in September and several dates will be offered for this. On your fifth question, there is indeed a multidisciplinary approach, covering all the actors involved: experts from the academia, welfare workers, police officers, staff of organisations engaged in the fight against sexual and/or intra-family violence, staff of the Family Justice Centers and experienced magistrates. Exactly in order to implement this multidisciplinary approach, the IGO held a wide consultation at the preparatory stage with many experts who could make a valuable contribution to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. In fact, my question concerned two aspects, which I might have dealt with separately. On the first issue, the communication by the Justice Department, you refer to other contributions in the media, very appreciated contributions that I have read with great attention. Those are not easy messages, but they need to be brought more, with nuance. Many people also do not know what difficult situation a judge is in and that he cannot simply communicate about decisions that are being made. We need to think carefully about the way in which justice communicates about very delicate and difficult decisions that it sometimes has to take. That is an important debate. You have given an overview of what is going on in the press, but we will have to go even faster and think about how we can make Justice more proactive and more active when it feels that there will be a social debate on certain issues. So perhaps the Justice Department should not wait for questions from journalists to explain a particular decision, but it should also proactively interpret and explain it. There will always be discussion, one will find it a good decision, the other will not find it a good decision, but it may be in a democratic rule of law. It is important that Justice actively communicates, but it must also have sufficient resources, with sufficient magistrates and support for active communication. We will be able to go into this further in the future. We are on the same page and we know the importance of this, so let us continue to do so over the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u42	Mrs Dillen, the aim of the Youth Succession programme is to improve the follow-up of young offenders who have just reached the age of majority. There is a great need for a more effective approach to these perpetrators. The youth follow-up room is a collaboration of the parquet, the justice houses, the CAW and the city of Antwerp through the project Kompas+. Playing short on the ball and responsive young people are central to this. The aim is to remove young people from the classical criminal justice system so that they can work on their integration even before a final sentence is reached. With better guidance and framework, the JOK tries to prevent young adults from becoming adult criminals with a history of the juvenile court. I can only endorse that objective. The proof of the pudding is in the eating and the future will determine whether the target is being met. Anyway, the experiences with the drug follow-up and drug treatment rooms do the best they can. With the project, Justice immediately responds to delinquent behavior, at the same time offering perspective and working on a possible underlying problem through a tailor-made approach. In this way, we can prevent young people from slipping into heavier forms of crime. I am convinced that justice can have the most impact and impact if it enrolls in a chain-oriented multidisciplinary approach. I refer in this respect to the Family Justice Centers, which do a very good job in the context of intra-family violence. The parquet has an overview of the young people in question's previous cases. The Public Prosecutor's Office of Antwerp will be able to decide whether the young adults are eligible for treatment for a JOK. A favourable criminal record, a sense of guilt and motivation to step into the path are crucial. The trajectory for the JOK consists of several phases. In the first phase, the prosecution will decide whether or not to subpoena a suspect. After a subpoena, the courthouse draws up a social investigation and a follow-up plan. Afterwards, the file will be submitted to the plenary session and it will show whether the young person wishes to enter the course. At the end of the session, the JOK plan shall be signed and the case shall continue for one month. In phase 3 there are monthly follow-up sessions, where the young adult is always heard and the trajectory is discussed and possibly adjusted. At any time, the court may terminate the course and, if necessary, give a ruling. The commission of new offences is therefore brought before the court. At the end of the journey, an appropriate tailor-made statement will follow, depending on a positive or negative course of the journey. If the young adult has made a full commitment, it will have a positive impact on the ruling and thus can keep his criminal record blank, for example through the favor of suspension, which keeps him or her all opportunities. If the young adult needs further guidance after completion of the journey, the route can be continued with an autonomous probation penalty. There is thus no predetermined duration, as it depends on the course of the journey. A JOK trajectory can also be revoked. If the project delivers the positive results we expect from it, we will, of course, start it in other courts in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed reply. I can indeed confirm that the drug follow-up room in Antwerp is a great success. I can only hope with you that this will also be the case with the JOK. I think it is important to review and evaluate that project in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u44	Minister, your reply to my question at the meeting of the Committee on Justice on the return of IS women on Wednesday 17 March 2021 showed that they are being monitored and monitored by the OCAD as a matter of priority after their return to our country. You also confirmed that the current government will send an investigation team to the camps to study on a case-by-case basis. As far as sending out that team is concerned, I am pleased that at least we are on the same page there. You spoke of 13 IS women in the camps of Al-Hol or Al-Roj. According to the Prime Minister, the OCAD will analyse all files individually. You know our position, namely that the adults must be tried there. However, this government made a different decision and I am therefore obliged to ask some questions about it. It can be useful to have eyes and ears everywhere but does the OCAD also have them in the camps? How do you see the individual OCAD research in relation to the female Syrian fighters? How do these women sign up? Who will decide which women will be eligible for repatriation? What about the kids? How and where will they be placed after their return? Is there any chance of family reunification?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u45	Mr Metsu, you know that the OCAD is not a first-line service, let alone an intelligence service, but it is the body responsible for analysing the threat. Information and information necessary for this analysis, in this case of the persons concerned, shall be provided by the partner services of the OCAD. I suppose you can imagine, but it goes without saying that for obvious security reasons no specific statements will be made on the methods of gathering information. The OCAD has the necessary expertise, as has been demonstrated more often in the past, in making the necessary threat assessments regarding individuals. The OCAD uses a specific method that has been further refined in recent years and applied to all persons on the terrorist list. All relevant information, available from the Belgian services concerned, is used to make the correct assessment. For security reasons, the operational aspects of the possible repatriation shall not be communicated. The return is based on a number of parameters that have been put forward by the National Security Council and are all taken into account. This return will be assessed on a case-by-case basis for the sake of Belgian public security and the best interests of the child. In this respect, we have already gained a great deal of experience in recent years, including during and thanks to the Swedish Government, of which both our parties were part. About forty children returned as well. The competent departments of the Communities shall be involved in good time. Action is taking place, in accordance with the provisions of youth protection law, which is a Community competence. The juvenile court will take action in the best interests of the child. Usually it starts with a recording in a specialised children's hospital. Afterwards, care is sought in the family, but again, it is the juvenile judge who takes action on a case-by-case basis in the best interests of the child. The condition of the children is, of course, also monitored and monitored. There is no right to family reunification.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u46	Indeed, Minister, I have the impression that you would like to conclude this sitting before 2 p.m. I haven't learned much from your answer. It happened really fast. Apologies to the interpreters. Only your last sentence was new to me, namely that there is no chance of family reunification. I'll take that explicit statement with me. I'll come back to the rest in great detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u47	Mrs Bury, I would like to add my words, but I do not believe that I am meant to go into detail about the terrible tragedy in question. It is quite unwise to tell in smells and colors what the Justice and Police did or did not do in the file, all the more so because an investigating judge was also appointed to the case. That does not alter the fact that we are certainly using the drama to learn and adjust. On the initiative of Mr Schlitz, we sat together with the services and Cabinets on this matter last week. The consultations will lead to an updated government plan in the coming months. Firstly, it is correct that the couple already had a long history of facts in which the police had to intervene. Nevertheless, this needs to be nuanced. Often there were no findings of physical violence. In addition, it was confirmed several times that the couple had settled the argument and no additional follow-up was needed. The police have contacted again several times after the facts to follow the evolution of the file. So there was certainly a follow-up of the behavior. However, often the message from the family itself was given that no further succession was required. Secondly, as already indicated, an appropriate follow-up was indeed given to the facts found by a continuous follow-up by the police. However, the facts were not such that a provisional detention could be imposed. This requires, as you know, criminal offences with a prison sentence of at least one year, which was not the case here. In the light of the circumstances of the case, the family was followed as closely as possible, especially since the family links were maintained throughout the facts. Thirdly, on the revisit, the COL 20 entered into force on 3 December 2020. Following a fact in January 2021, the police contacted the family in accordance with that COL, indicating that the peace had returned. In general, I would like to point out that facts of intra-family violence are often very complex facts. The victim often does not want to cut the tyres and thus ends up in a vicious circle, refusing the assistance offered. That's why it's very important to work with the unsub as well. There are figures such as the restraining order and the remand, which, however, only ensure that the perpetrator is removed from the area. More needs to be done. The unsub must change his behavior and also want to change it. That is why we must look beyond the arsenal we already have. It is also time to think about a restraining order or a chamber within the court that has accelerated cases of intra-family violence. We need to bet more on Family Justice Centers, including in Wallonia. That chain approach is incredibly important. We need to focus more on such initiatives in order to avoid such tragedies in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u48	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You have made me very happy with that answer. I hear you've been sitting with your colleague Schlitz. That vicious one is indeed extremely difficult to break. In the honeymoon phase, where everything is fixed again, and the couple stays together for the children, the police can do very little. It is precisely in this problem that there is a need to enter. You say that there are other things to look at besides the expulsion, but the expulsion is certainly not bad. A cooling-off period in which both parties can think about it, is good, but then we have to start working on things that are completely abnormal, but which condone the partner again. That's the big problem. You say that we need to find another guide, study the problem in a different way and deal with it in this way. I'm delighted to hear that. What has done me even more pleasure is that you support the creation of a room in the family court that deals with intra-family violence. It certainly needs to be put right this legislative period. We will work on this with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u49	Minister, I would indeed like to give way to the answers so as not to waste time and allow as many answers as possible. There was talk about the establishment of this task force to combat urban violence. I'll just do with you the state of the situation and hear you on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u50	Colleagues, with my colleague from the Interior, I am studying how best to shape this project as discussed in committee. Here we must involve the police, the judiciary, the administration and possibly other actors. We will start work after Easter. I can already tell you that I have had and that I still have preparatory talks with police chiefs and members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In view of the health crisis, it seems that we will have to set up this task force in a digital way. We certainly want to involve the mayors, the chiefs of the local police, but also the officials of the federal police, the representatives of the College of Attorneys General and the Council of Prosecutors of the King. Other social sectors – the socio-preventive sectors – can also play their part. I think that the members of the Committee on Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice can certainly have their place here.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u51	Thank you Minister, I note that after Easter, this task force will be operational. As we have already told you, you can therefore count on us to try to do useful work and to provide concrete answers together.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u52	Madam President, Mr Goffin, international cooperation and the exchange of information are necessarily a cornerstone for investigating cybercrime. Our police services work in this direction commonly with their foreign counterparts. With regard to the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), cooperation takes place bilaterally, seven days a week and 24 hours a day, via Europol and/or the contact networks to which they belong: the G7, High Tech Crime Network (HTCN) and the contact point networks resulting from the Budapest Convention. Second, international police cooperation is one of the central tasks of the FCCU, particularly because of its role as a single point of contact (SPOC) in this field. This mission is under the regular operation of the FCCU and is therefore funded from normal operating budgets. This international modus operandi is also supported by the Directorate of International Police Cooperation and its services within the judicial pillar of the Federal Police. When the activities of the FCCU fall within the scope of European projects, such as the Framework Programme "Horizons for Research and Innovation", the European budget can be used in many cases. In particular, this is the case of a project developed by the FCCU within EMPACT (European Union Political Circle to Combat Large International Organised Crime), aimed at developing a set of training courses on the dark web for law enforcement agencies. In addition, the FCCU naturally maintains contact with Interpol and has access to its communication platform seven days a week and 24 hours a day. Despite the FCUU's relationship with Interpol and Europol, the European Cybercrime Center is the first point of contact and privileged partner of international police cooperation in this field. Therefore, the knowledge and communication platform proposed by Europol is more commonly used. Moreover, given the nature of cybercrime, it goes without saying that we must strive as much as possible for international cooperation, both in concrete cases and in the development of legal frameworks or in the establishment of collaborative links. The Belgian police services contribute to this by cooperating, where possible, in the framework of international operational dossiers, by contributing to European projects and sharing their knowledge and expertise through international knowledge platforms. Several initiatives have already been taken, such as a new directive on network and information security, and an extension of the cooperation protocol included in the Budapest Convention on simple crime. At European level, a regulation and a directive to facilitate cross-border access to electronic evidence in criminal matters are currently the subject of interinstitutional negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament. These texts should allow direct orders for the production or retention of electronic evidence to Internet platforms located in other Member States without going through the usual mechanisms of mutual legal assistance. The European Commission has also been mandated by the Council to negotiate a bilateral agreement between the European Union and the United States on access to electronic evidence and to participate in negotiations within the Council of Europe on a second additional protocol to the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u54	Madam President, Mrs Hugon, this is a file from the Hal-Vilvorde Prosecutor's Office. In this case, a judicial investigation is under way. This is a case of fraud, piracy, computer forgery and computer fraud. As you know, I can't and I don't want to comment on an ongoing investigation. The judicial investigation continues. As soon as it is completed, we will know for which suspects the Public Prosecutor's Office will request a dismissal from the Chamber of Counsel and for which suspects he will request referral to the competent court. I can inform you that there are three scenarios concerning the facts. An appeal may be lodged on the basis of article 27 of the Act of 13 March 1973 on compensation for inoperative pre-trial detention. It is possible to claim full compensation for the damage by way of an action against the Belgian State in the person of the Minister of Justice before the court of first instance for unlawful detention. No duration requirement is required in this case, but a fault, damage and causal link will have to be established. The compensation provided for on the basis of this article is based on liability with fault of the State. The extent of the compensation will be full compensation for the damage suffered. Second, an appeal may be brought on the basis of article 28 of the same Act. According to the consistent jurisprudence of the Inoperative Pre-trial Detention Commission, the duration of pre-trial detention is eight days. If the person has been held in pre-trial detention for eight days, he/she therefore satisfies this condition. However, other conditions are required. The person must have been dismissed directly or indirectly by a judicial decision in force of res judicata or have benefited from an order or judgment of dismissal. In addition, detention must not have been caused by his own conduct. The compensation provided for on the basis of this article is based on a faultless liability of the State. The extent of compensation will be limited, granted ex aequo et bono. This remedy is supplementary. It is admissible only if there is no other means of compensation before the ordinary courts or if these other remedies have been exhausted. Finally, there is a third possibility, namely the direct request to the Minister for compensation in the context of a pre-contentious file. An analysis of the situation should be carried out after receiving the opinion of the judicial authorities and an analysis of the documents in the file has been carried out. A proposal for possible compensation could be made to the opposing party, but there must have been a positive prior opinion from the Inspector of Finance. Disindicting someone is not allowed to the investigating judge. The King's prosecutor must request that the case be dismissed at the end of the investigation at the time of the settlement of the proceedings before the Chamber of Counsel. As far as I am aware, there has never been a question of considering a procedure of disindictment for wrongly charged persons. In any event, the assumption was not considered during the work of the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which my predecessor took the initiative. However, in the new Code of Criminal Procedure proposed by the Reform Commission, the rules of procedure of the Chamber of Counsel following an investigation conducted by the investigating judge are deleted; the explanatory memorandum specifies this. In the procedure proposed by the Reform Commission, the Public Prosecutor's Office therefore has the opportunity to close the case without further action without the need to go through an investigating court for the settlement of the proceedings. Finally, I can inform you that articles 27 and 28 of the above-mentioned Act have been included in the draft new Code of Criminal Procedure without major amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u55	Thank you very much, Minister, for this very extensive and very thorough answer, and for all the information you have given me about my second question. As for the third, I am glad to know that some possibilities are opening up. I continue to believe that it might be appropriate to consider the possibility of disindicting. We knew the case of the person who had been mistakenly taken as "the man in the hat", after the attacks, and who had to wait several years to be officially declared innocent. That would seem to me an interesting development.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u56	Mr Moyaers, it is difficult for us to look at the spectacular increase in the number of facts of phishing. Pano correctly presented the police-registered facts of phishing. It is staggering that EUR 34 million was stolen last year, and that is only the amount of money that has been declared only through phishing. The full figures may be much larger. This is not only due to digitalisation, but Corona may also play a role. Young gangs can get harder on the streets now, but rob people from behind their PCs. Police and Justice have already been able to expose and roll up gangs. Money mules, money donkeys are usually used. These are people in marginality or others who allow themselves to be used by opening an account where the money ends up. They must then withdraw the money from the account, after which it is collected by the organizers. In some cases, however, the criminals operate abroad and the money mule has to transfer the sum to a foreign account. They are not always the easiest investigations with perpetrators who operate anonymously from behind their PCs, often from abroad. The time when the perpetrator of a burglary in his own village had to be sought is over. Justice and police are therefore adaptable and, fortunately, good practices already exist. What the Belgian Justice and Police realized in the Sky ECC file is an illustration of this adaptability. However, the fact that the digitalisation of society requires much adaptability of the judiciary and the police is an understatement. That's why the government invests in security, including in the virtual world. EUR 5 million will be added for specialised cybermagistrates and support staff. In concrete terms, 33 people will be affected in the coming years. Extra 32 million euros will be released for NTSU, the federal police service working on the interception of data to search for networks. In addition, 125 profiles for IT specialists will be added to the judicial police. More resources and more people. This is a good start, but above all it is a strong commitment to clearer information management and flow between the partners concerned. An integrated approach to phishing is currently being sought in a national working group. That will result in a rerouting letter for police and prosecutors. As far as leaders and gang leaders are concerned, the policy being prepared will provide for both the approach to money mules and the fight against the underlying structures. By streamlining the approach to the large numbers of money mules as uniform and smooth as possible, the Public Prosecutor's Office wants to create more room for a thorough investigation into the superstructure and the underlying structures. An important tool for this will be the possibility for banks to share information about incidents with each other so that the large pond of money mules can be wiped out. A draft law is being prepared for this, in consultation with Febelfin. As regards the question about the chat groups you wanted to ask Minister Verlinden, I can tell you that Article 46 sexies of the Code of Criminal Procedure allows specific police services to interact with suspects online without the need for full infiltration in accordance with Article 47. However, according to COVID-19, the necessary legal training for police forces has not yet been organised so that the specialised services of the CGSU are now the only ones allowed to carry out such virtual interaction. This training for the regular police forces must be put in place as soon as possible. After all, it is important to allow them to make the necessary findings in the virtual world. Your next question, the Belgian legislation on the investigative powers of the judicial authorities received an important update through the law of 25 December 2016. The legal framework for the fight against cybercrime is fully in line with existing international legal instruments, such as the Budapest Convention. I have already indicated in my policy statement that cross-border access to electronic evidence needs to be simplified. I refer to the negotiations on the e-evidence rules within the EU and to the second additional protocol to the Budapest Treaty within the Council of Europe. I come to your final question. The officials of the Economic Inspectorate shall have the power, on the basis of the Code of Economic Law, to request information from the financial institutions themselves. However, the Code does not provide for access to the central contact point at the National Bank of Belgium. I do not think it is appropriate to amend the legislation in force which would allow the police themselves to request identification of bank account numbers directly from the banks. This remains for me an authority of the King's Attorney, who is in charge and in charge of the investigation. He bears the responsibility for this. The new Justice Bill, which will shortly be submitted to the Chamber, extends the scope of Article 46quater (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure so that the King's Attorney can obtain the necessary information on the products, services and transactions of a financial nature and on virtual values relating to a suspect, where there are serious indications that the offences may result in a correctional main prison sentence of one year or a heavier penalty. Until now, the possibility of first consulting the CAP has been limited to a number of specifically listed offences. This amendment will simplify the procedure so that only once a claim is made by the prosecutor, the police officer can register the CAP and, on the basis of this information, the right bank can be contacted immediately. In addition, there is a need to be able to map the entire money trail more quickly. This now requires frequent back and forth communication between police and prosecutor and police and partners. The Public Prosecutor's Office plans to address this by introducing a unique transit claim based on Article 46a and c addressed to each partner involved in the money trail, motivated and concrete. Speed is needed in the fight against phishing, in particular in order to prevent the funds from disappearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u57	It is indeed a very comprehensive answer, of course it was also a lot of questions. EUR 34 million has been earmarked for phishing. That probably won't be all, maybe even the tip of the iceberg. Not everyone dares to say that, often out of shame or because they do not even find it worthwhile because the amount is too small in their eyes to indicate it. You want to deal with the money mules, too. Above the money mules are the Phishers, up there are the ultimate leaders. Dealing with the money mules is definitely a good thing, but we have to pay attention to that. They are very often the victims of identity fraud themselves. There are undoubtedly people, very often students, who sometimes dare to borrow their accounts from phishers to eventually serve as money mule. We must be careful not only to focus on this. Very often, these people are the victims themselves. In this respect, it is interesting that, together with police zone LRH in Hasselt, for example, college PXL wants to plan a specific course for next school year, for students who could be tempted to money muling. If that works, it might be interesting to roll out all over the country, maybe it could be particpable. Anyway, I think we certainly need a coordinated approach, with efficient ways of exchanging information. There is a need to invest in staff, and I have just heard you say that you will, but I also think that there are possible adjustments in the investigative powers here and there to really deal with the problem efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u58	Mr Minister, you have already provided some answers to this question by answering Mr Aouasti. For the remainder, I refer to my written question, if you can provide further answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u59	Dear colleague, as at 30 March 2021, 796 inmates had been tested positive since the outbreak of the pandemic. Of these, 172 were still positive by that date. Vaccinating all inmates and staff corresponds to 20,000 vaccinations, requiring 40,000 doses if the vaccine used requires two injections. At present, only staff serving in the wing reserved for older prisoners at Merksplas prison and staff serving in the covid-19 section of Bruges prison have been vaccinated. For these two facilities, 32 surveillance staff and 15 health care staff were vaccinated. No inmates were vaccinated in Bruges, as the sick cannot be vaccinated, as is the case of prisoners in the covid-19 section of this prison. In Merksplas, 24 detainees were vaccinated. It should be noted that there was no refusal. For the other institutions concerned, there is currently no fixed date. There is a parallelism between free society and the prison world in terms of immunization priorities. Flanders has just completed the vaccination of people over the age of 85 and starts the vaccination of people over the age of 65. So not everyone will be vaccinated at the same time. This will also depend on the delivery of vaccines. From 19 April onwards, vaccination of 65-year-old and at-risk prisoners will begin, i.e., more or less 1,800 people. The Vaccination Task Force also requested, at my request, the opinion of the Higher Council of Health for prison staff and other detainees. This opinion is expected to be delivered next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u60	Thank you very much, Minister, for these specific answers. I am glad to know that an opinion of the Higher Council of Health has been sought and is expected shortly. Indeed, it has already been sufficiently pointed out that the situation in prisons is much more difficult than elsewhere, given the absolutely drastic conditions to which prisoners are subjected. I therefore continue to hope that a change in the vaccination strategy can be made in order to move the detainees as a whole to a higher priority. For now, I am already reassured that there will be at least one parallelism between the prison world and free society.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I read in the newspaper this morning that the cocaine laundry is located in Ben Segers' parental home, but that is a nameake. I had nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u62	Madam President, Mrs Verhaert, Mr Segers, the judicial investigation must be in progress, but of course these questions are relevant. We are currently fully committed to the fight against organised crime. In this dossier, the modus operandi, washing cocaine out of goods, leaves little doubt that we are dealing here with organised crime. Cocaine can be extracted from many carriers. Our services identify an increasing diversification of the modus operandi. This is a general trend observed in organised crime. About the investigation, I can only confirm that the D.A. requested the investigating judge on Friday. 11 people have been apprehended. They appeared on March 30, so yesterday, in front of the council room in Turnhout. Mrs Verhaert, as regards your second question, I cannot tell you for the same reason whether there are any indications of previous dumping by this laboratory. The costs of removing the drugs, the lab and the products that were found are legal costs in so far as they were removed on the request of a magistrate. Restoring the environmental damage associated with drug precursors and associated waste is not considered legal costs. These costs shall be borne by the owner or administrative authorities. These may, however, recover the costs incurred from the suspected by lodging a civil party notice. I invite the local administration, of course, to do the same. As for your third question, the consultation between the Dutch College of PGs and their Belgian counterparts took place on 4 February 2021 via videoconference. Agreements were reached on mutual priorities and international cooperation. Cooperation between the Netherlands and Belgium is getting better and better. That's crucial. As for your fourth question, the Anonymous Drug Desk Limburg started in April 2017. It makes it possible for citizens to make an anonymous report by telephone. A website was also launched at the end of 2020 in addition to the 0800-number. This currently consists of a page on which the reporter can easily fill out a contact form. Currently, the Limburg parquet, the federal police and the local Limburg police as well as the province are working on the further extension of the website. The aim is to develop the website into a platform where, in addition to the possibility to make anonymous drug-related reports, relevant information on the problem can also be found. Tips to help identify drug labs or cannabis plantations will also be mentioned. The Antwerp parquet is also currently working with the police and the province on a hotline around plantations, labs and dumping, as a remarkable increase in plantations and labs was observed. Tracking down is becoming increasingly difficult for the police, as there are often criminal organisations behind the facts that are getting better and better at hiding these activities. That is why I support the call for alert citizens. Drug reporting points are a good initiative, with results on the ground. Mr Segers, the investigation of drug waste can indeed give an indication of the type of drugs and, in some cases, of the procedures used. However, it is a technically difficult task because the criminal organisations want to conceal the origin of the products used, but also because identical chemicals can be used in different manufacturing and extraction processes. According to the information available to our services, the number of illegal deposits of chemicals from drug production on our territory has decreased over the last two years. This trend was also observed in the Netherlands. The decline is more than likely due to the investment of criminal organisations to hide this waste in a professional way and thus reduce the risk of discovery by the services. The Clan Lab Response Unit, CRU, is a specialised unit of the Central Directorate for Combating Organised Crime. This unit consists of specialised researchers trained to act in drug production sites. During its interventions, the CRU is assisted by the members of the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology, as well as by fire department officers specialised in dangerous substances. The CRU consists of five persons. The evolution of drug production is a constant challenge for this department. As far as profiles are concerned, these remain, of course, first and foremost researchers, as this unit is intended to support the judicial investigation. In addition, and in line with the general vision of the FGP, specific profiles, such as chemists, are sought. In general, the CRU has carried out around 100 interventions per year in recent years. These interventions relate not only to the dismantling of sites but also to the additional technical tasks associated with the judicial investigation. The evolution of the number of interventions of this unit is, of course, dependent on current trends. For example, over the last two years, our services have seen an increase in the number of production sites, but at the same time there has been a decrease in the number of illegal deposits of chemical products. I come to your fifth question. The increase in drug production is disturbing. Our services are also facing increasing professionalisation and variety in the species. Think, for example, of the rise of industrialised production of methamphetamine. Moreover, the current health crisis does not seem to have slowed down this activity. On the contrary, our services see an increase in production capacity and a fragmentation of the production chain, no doubt in order to reduce the risks of punishment. The efforts under the National Security Plan have enabled us to better understand, investigate and dismantle the production sites. We will continue to do this, in particular by investing in bilateral cooperation with the Netherlands and by constantly working for the projects developed by Europol.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. You mentioned it yourself, the situation is really disturbing. After all, we know that drug crime has not relapsed in recent years, quite the contrary. The Kempen and Limburg are the production spots par excellence of synthetic drugs. Per kilo of pills, about 20 litres of waste is produced that is dangerous to public health. The waste is regularly dumped in forests, along the road or in trucks. Even in marketplaces, it's left behind. Our services are increasingly linking the waste to the labs, reducing the dumping of barrels. However, the waste will be disposed of in a different way. You yourself say that less and less rubbish is found from drug labs, but at the same time we know that the drug manufacturers have never made so much mess. It is now beginning to produce the raw materials themselves, because there are checks on their purchase. The question is, of course, where the waste is going next. Is it being discharged into our sewers or is it being run away on the street? These are issues that we really need to worry about, because the waste has a huge impact on our public health. Minister, the fight against drug manufacturers is a priority. It's about labs in the backyards of our residents in the Kempen. So, like in Limburg, let us give our citizens a voice with a drug reporting point, so that they can easily report certain situations. On the other hand, we need to make them aware of certain smells so that they can notice them and report them anonymously. It is certainly a good thing that this initiative is also being launched in Antwerp. As you yourself say, there is no need for much resources. I therefore hope that a limited budget can be made available for this. In Limburg, the drug reporting point is a success, but mainly thanks to the voluntary commitment of the employees of the parquet. There is no money to print posters. That's what the county's up to. There's no money to design a poster. For this you can contact the son or daughter who can make a design. There is also no money for a secure website. That's why they also leave a voicemail. The amount of money they are asking for will really bring enormous added value for the safety of the inhabitants of Kempense and Limburg. I therefore sincerely hope that limited resources will soon be released to strengthen the anonymous drug reporting point in Limburg and possibly to roll it out throughout our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u64	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. I would like to endorse what Mrs Verhaert has said. For the rest, I am not going to go into more detail about your reply, given the hour that has come, but I would like to thank you very specifically for your very comprehensive answers. You show a lot of voluntarism. I would like to say this specifically, because not all ministers do. We always get very comprehensive answers from you. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament 55015567C by Mrs de Laveleye will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanbesien's 55016073C is also converted into a written question if the answer can be sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u66	Mr Minister, in an article in L-Echo of 27 March 2021, it is stated that "the judicial investigation into the installations that Dexia had organised for years from Luxembourg for its Belgian customers did not finally give anything. Brussels investigating judge Michel Claise found the door closed on the Luxembourg side". It had appeared in the Panama Papers that undeclared Belgian money had been deposited on accounts with Dexia Banque Internationale in Luxembourg, by placing it on behalf of postal boxes housed in Panama and the British Virgin Islands. Judge Claise, explains the daily, "asked the Luxembourg authorities to be able to collect data from the Luxembourg company Experta Corporate & Trust Services, a subsidiary of the Dexia group regularly cited in Panama Papers. In spite of the cooperation agreements concluded with Belgium to facilitate the investigation of money-laundering, he was very disappointed by the fact that he was hit by a wall on the Luxembourg side." Mr Minister, can you explain why the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has refused to apply the cooperation agreements in this matter? Are you considering initiatives to try to influence the Grand Duchy's position on cooperation in this or other cases? More generally, does Luxembourg in sixth place in the new 2021 list of the world's worst tax havens, established by Tax Justice Network, not consider it useful to take initiatives within the European Union against tax practices in that country?
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u67	Madam President, Chers Collègues, as a reminder, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has always been restrictive on requests for international cooperation in the field of tax fraud and money laundering from tax fraud. That's a fact we can't ignore. In the specific case of Panama Papers, the Luxembourg authorities applied this restrictive approach in the execution of the request for European assistance which had been made by the Belgian investigating judge. This request was considered incomplete because it did not provide sufficient evidence that the Belgian economic beneficiaries concerned had individually committed a criminal offence within the meaning of Luxembourg law. This approach to Belgian demand is in fact tantamount to making it impossible to cooperate on tax fraud and its laundering, since the aim of Belgian demand is precisely to obtain evidence against Belgian nationals. If this evidence had already been collected in Belgium, there would have been no need to resort to a request in the investigation. This is in some way a vicious circle, as we are asked for evidence of the facts that the request is specifically intended to support through a search for evidence. Even if it concerns the sovereignty of another country, we will denounce it to the Luxembourg authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I find quite clear. The Luxembourg position is frankly intolerable, since it simply refuses to provide information, despite the cooperation agreements in force. We know that this country is one of the leading tax havens in the world, thus promoting fraud and money laundering. It's serious! Like such personalities as economist Gabriel Zucman, I consider such attitudes to be inconceivable within the European Union. For this reason, the Commission should take retaliatory measures or even consider an exclusion from these tax havens. This is, in any case, the conclusion reached by Mr Zucman. In my view, Belgium should not only play a role in its bilateral relations with Luxembourg, but also within the European Union, in denouncing such practices and taking action against the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u69	Mrs Hugon was just here, but she probably didn't know that this question would be discussed. You may be able to give her the answer to her question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u70	Madam President, Minister, a departure party took place in Lantin Prison. I would like to hear from you as to its legal nature, its authorized character, and everything that goes around.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm that a group of agents stayed for a long time in the prison parking lot after their service on 22 March for what could be called a celebration linked to the celebration of the departure of one of their colleagues. This was done without information and prior management approval. The health rules do not seem to have been respected since some 30 agents have been identified. Of course, I regret that situation. In order to gain a better view of what has happened, the Executive Board has sent a written request for explanations to all agents identified. On that basis, it will determine how to proceed in this case, which I will also follow with due attention. I cannot anticipate this, but you can understand that this could give rise to disciplinary investigations. To answer Ms. Hugon's question, I was not aware of any such events in other institutions. I point out that the number of positive inmates at Covid-19 has remained low in Lantin since, despite a number of inmates present at close to 800, 27 cases have been recorded in this facility since the beginning of the pandemic. The last positive case reported was February 1. It seems that this event did not have a negative impact at this stage, at the level of the inmates.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u72	Minister, all public services must be exemplary. I have no doubt that you will be attentive to the outcome of this investigation and that you will ensure that, if disciplinary sanctions are imposed, they are properly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u73	I agree with Mr Goffin's remarks. One has an example function. I find it particularly cynical that in that same prison a wing had previously laid down the work to be vaccinated more quickly because people were afraid to get infected, while on the other hand some sort of departure party is being held by other colleagues. There is a clear example to be made. I also assume that this will happen as it should. Rules are there to be applied. Those apply to everyone, so there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u74	Madam President, dear colleague, I can only confirm that the prison in Marche-en-Famenne is currently understaffed. Recruitment of staff is, however, ongoing. The selections are closed and the winners have been contacted. A number of decisions are pending with Empreva, namely occupational medicine. A number of officers are also awaiting transfer to the above-mentioned prison, but this will only be possible if they have been replaced in their prison of departure, the aim being to solve the problem and not to move it. To answer your third question, while stressing the fact that the prison in Marche-en-Famenne has telephones and a shower in each cell, I must note that Friday's strike led to the abolition of all out-of-cell activities for detainees. I come to your fourth and final question on reinforcements. Only two police officers were assigned to the prison. It is not possible for me to estimate the cost of this reinforcement since it does not depend on my department.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2021-03-31-definitief-55-commissie-ic436x.u76	Mrs Thibaut is not present for her question No. 55016152C. In view of the fact that this sitting has ended somewhat, I propose that this question be postponed to another committee meeting with oral questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Francken's 55016069C lapsed. Mr Minister, we have been able to deal with a great many questions today, for which we are grateful.
